EN
– Mr President, we have to restore public confidence in aviation and we have to let the market decide what happens to the airlines themselves. Restoring public confidence means getting security screening right and improving the quality of staff, training, job procedures, pay and conditions. It means, perhaps, ensuring that there is a state-run security operation at airports and paying accordingly. That may well create more jobs. So far as the airlines and their financial viability are concerned, we do not want more intervention, more bureaucracy and more delay. We need targeted assistance in areas like insurance and the cost of security. We must let the market decide what the future of the airline industry shall be. As was said earlier, Sabena made a profit in only one year out of the many years that it has been in existence. Aer Lingus, Alitalia, Air France and KLM are not far behind. Why the devil should we support Aer Lingus when Ryanair can make money without any difficulties at all – like Easyjet, like GO, like Buzz? All those airlines can make money at a difficult time. Why should we therefore bail out the Sabenas and the Aer Linguses with their overcapacity, with too many routes, too few passengers and too much state pride? I have two specific questions that I wish to ask the President-in-Office of the Council. Firstly, I am led to believe that there are problems with the Sabena slots that have been offered, in Britain, for example, to British Midland and British European Airways. They may have them for a short time but there is some suggestion from the coordinator that they may be lost in six months time if DAT is reformed and wants those slots back. That is unacceptable. If Sabena cannot fill those slots then others should be allowed to use them. Secondly, what is being done to ensure that the staff at Brussels airport does not restrict the movement of those new-slot airlines as a result of picketing and delays at the airport? We need guarantees of freedom of movement on the ground as well as in the air. – Mr President, we meet at a time when congestion in our skies has never been greater. According to the statistics, the incidence of a 15-minute delay has risen from 12.7% in 1991 to 30.3% in 1999 and is still rising. We are worried not only about the effects that congestion has in terms of inconvenience and the implications for the economic stability of our Union, but we are also concerned first and foremost about threats to safety that may result from it. It is a fact that there is a shortage of air traffic controllers. It is a fact that there has been a lack of investment in air traffic control systems. The demand for air transport is rising almost daily because of cheap fares, the desire of people to travel abroad on holiday and on business or even to be able to take a few days' break at the drop of a hat has added to this pressure. Whilst this pressure has been growing, we owe it to those working in the system to congratulate them and thank them for what they have done. Unfortunately – and this is not entirely their fault – they are not coping with the pressures as well as we would wish: we have all had experience of that only recently, as a result of the delays caused by the strike in France. All this, then, has a detrimental effect upon the mobility of our citizens, and in terms of the economic and financial and social costs for our businesses and a wide variety of other people affected on a day-to-day basis by what is going on. I would like to congratulate Commissioner Palacio for having the initiative to bring this to our committee in the terms that she did, and with the force and verve that she has shown, initially, in setting up the high level group, and also in the leadership that she has given to addressing this problem. What has been produced by the Commission is a major contribution to dealing with the saturation of airspace. The Council of Transport Ministers needs to take a political decision to address this. We cannot put it off any longer. It needs attention now. We need a single sky over a single market but at the same time we have to recognise that individual nation states have views about how these matters should be addressed, particularly insofar as they affect the livelihoods of the workforce and also the use of national airspace for military purposes. Military airspace and its abuse in some countries is something that we also have to address not just in terms of the space that is taken up by military aircraft, but also on occasions the abuse of the civil air corridors by military aircraft not abiding by civil air procedures. This too is an area which need to be addressed. In this report I have proposed – and the committee has broadly accepted – a suggestion that Eurocontrol should be a regulatory body with more powers, more effective sanctions and with the right of appeal for those who are affected by it. By the same token, we think that the provision of air traffic services should be open to liberalisation, subject to what each individual country decides is appropriate for itself. As Members may well know, in the United Kingdom we have addressed the subject by introducing a principle of privatisation. That may be right for us. It may be wrong for others. It is up to individual nation states to decide, but they must decide to address this problem of the division between regulation of their airspace on the one hand and the air service management provision that could be offered by others or other organisations. We do believe that there should be objective and independent criteria on how the system is managed, with incentives offered for the achievers and penalties offered for those who do not meet the desired levels. We think that passengers should be compensated for unjust delays and that their rights in these cases should be clear and well known. But above all we wish Commissioner Palacio, with our support, to press the Council of Ministers and all those associated with this to take urgent decisions. If there is one across-the-board criticism of the report from the industry, it is that perhaps it does not go far or fast enough. This cannot last any longer. We must address this issue now. Mr President, on a point of order further to those that have already been raised, I would also like to ask the Presidency of Parliament to consider exactly what the rules are – and how they are enforced – as to the use of cameras filming Members going about their duties. In every legislative body or Council with which I have been associated, there are firm rules about what can be done and what cannot be done. The evidence we have shows that a lot of things have been going on that should not have happened, and they ought to be stopped. Can we have the assurance that will happen? – Mr President, I was Minister for Steel in the United Kingdom between 1987 and 1989 and was responsible for an industry which was over-manned, uncompetitive, riddled with old-fashioned practices and heading for disaster. When it was privatised, it experienced a traumatic time with the loss of plants and jobs, and morale was at rock bottom. However, it had to be endured to secure any future at all. We do not want that to happen again because an outside agency such as the United States has seemingly broken WTO rules, especially since the US itself should restructure old plants, rationalise employment and pension practices so that its own industry is improved, but not at the expense of European industry. I find it disturbing, to say the least, that Romania is one of the countries exempted by the United States of America. Romania is home to Sidex, closely connected to Ispat, the firm controlled by Lakshmi Mittal, which gave Tony Blair and the Labour Party GBP 125 000 for their general election campaign and then lobbied President Bush harder than anyone else to impose 30% tariffs that would protect his United States and Romanian steel interests at a potentially deadly cost to British plants and jobs. Just whose side is Tony's crony on? It does not appear to be British and European workers, since Mittal will make an estimated USD 1 billion from this deal. That GBP 125 000 gift was a real steal – a cheap and cynical investment that will literally pay dividends. Therefore, the Labour Government is not our answer – the Commission is. We must support the Commissioner in his determined attempts to protest and, if necessary, retaliate – but carefully. We need the OECD talks to continue and to produce success. How about some targeted action against products from Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia? Is the Minister aware that even the authors of this report acknowledge that levels are so low as to be insignificant to health; that levels are a thousand times less than other radioactive substances naturally present in teeth; that most of the highest results were recorded over 250 miles from Sellafield; that this material is more likely to be fallout from weapons testing, which has been present throughout the Northern Hemisphere for some years; that respected scientific and academic opinion in Northern Ireland – for which I was the minister responsible for a couple of years – as well as in his own country, contradicts many of the assertions of the Irish anti-Sellafield lobby; and that when all is said and done, this is little more than political scaremongering designed to wreck thousands of the jobs of my constituents in north-west England and to damage the livelihoods of those many communities dependent upon this vital and valuable recycling operation? – Mr President, since you invite me – and I have been provoked by colleagues – what is the point in running an assembly which indicates that votes are due to take place at 12 noon, but which then start at 12.40 p.m.? Surely we should be able to manage our affairs efficiently. Would you please carry that concern back to the Presidency of Parliament. – Mr President, I share and express my sympathy for the United States and for the other victims of this terrible incident. As a former Northern Ireland minister, I have been a terrorist target and I have faced the TV cameras surrounded by the wreckage of a terrorist incident. I know, therefore, how important it is to get both the response right and also to protect the general public as far as is possible in a democracy. Like my colleague, Mr Jarzembowski, I am chiefly concerned about aviation and the mostly ordinary people who rely on it. As a member of the Committee on Transport, I have written to the chairman of that committee asking for early consideration of the implications for this important industry. First of all, security at airports and on aircraft; secondly, the control of congested airspace in view of the likely increase in military activity, the dangers of hostile incursion into European civil airspace and, of course, as he said, about the continued viability of European airlines. It is vital that we are consistent in our approach to public safety and to the collective peace of mind throughout the Union. We must not overreact, exacerbating the understandable fears of the traveller and threatening their civil liberties, but we must get it right and we must do so immediately. We must act alongside our friends and allies within the United States of America and in international organisations such as the ICAO. To get it right will require work and effort and a commitment: As Mr Van Orden said, we want to make certain that we are saying and doing the same things in six months' time as we profess to do now. In conclusion, the message is quite simple: Terrorism must not be allowed to win. – Mr President, first of all I must apologise for my absence from the committee when my amendments to the Esclopé report were discussed. I was involved in the British general election and also in the mayor-making of my wife, which is why I was unable to be here. I will confine my remarks to the Esclopé report. This is an issue of great concern, provoked by the  and aggravated by the  disaster off the Channel Islands. As one personally associated in 1969 with the effects of the  disaster on the beaches and livelihoods of south-west England, I have understood and shared that concern for many years. The proposals from the Commission were all right as far as they went, but there are a number of deficiencies. The first is the potentially detrimental effects on existing international funds, the CLC, i.e. the Convention on Civil Liability, and the IOPC, the International Oil-Pollution Compensation Fund. Secondly, no attention was given to the bunker-fuel oil spills or the pollution caused by hazardous and noxious substances. There are two conventions on these subjects: the Bunker Oil Convention 2001, and the Hazardous and Noxious Substances Convention of 1996. Both of these are unlikely to be ratified in the foreseeable future. That is why they need to be addressed in this report. Thirdly, there is in equity in terms of the responsibility for meeting the costs. I have some reservations about Amendment No 22 and the implications for oil companies of pollution caused by chemicals or noxious substances. That is something that we can address at second reading. But in essence what we have tried to do is to rectify that inequity. Mr Esclopé sought to amend the report to take account of local public concerns and also to limit what is, I believe, the Commission's unnecessary involvement in the day-to-day running of the COPE Fund. His suggestion of a tri-partite committee is well-meaning, but inadequate. We need to address the too heavy and bureaucratic involvement of the Commission and we should accept the tried and trusted international arrangements used by the CLC and IOPC funds. Finally, there is local consultation, which is needed, but should not be mandatory and it should not be a vehicle for delay. This has the potential to be a far-reaching and radical piece of European legislation and in consultation with other non-EU states it can go a long way towards resolving the problems of maritime pollution caused by oil and hazardous or noxious substances. We should be proud of this achievement and support it. – Madam President, I congratulate Mr Ferber on his report although we have some concerns that it does not go far enough. We believe in the need for liberalisation, competition and value for money. It is iniquitous that the Royal Mail in Britain is using taxpayers' money to intervene in continental liberalised markets whilst at the same time fighting to prevent that liberalisation in the United Kingdom. That is why I have re-tabled some of the amendments which we discussed in committee and which we will be voting for – especially in relation to the liberalisation of direct mail. That is essential for the development of the direct marketing industry. We have concerns, also, about the increase back to 150 grammes from the 50 grammes that we believe is necessary. We have, alongside this, an absolute commitment to the universal service obligation. If it can be done in rural Sweden then it can be done in rural Britain without any great difficulties. I do not take any lessons from the Labour Party about the rural areas. When I was the Minister for the Environment in Britain I was responsible for producing a rural White Paper, which dealt with some of the problems relating to rural post offices, so I do not take messages from the Labour Party, however nicely spoken by Mr Simpson. I am also glad to see that our continental Liberal friends are giving the lead to British Liberals. British Conservatives support Commissioner Bolkestein and we intend to consider, in the course of this debate – and subsequently as the debate proceeds and as the amendments are considered – whether we will vote against the further compromise, however much I respect and regard Mr Ferber's report as a compromise in the face of many difficulties. But, because we believe that Commissioner Bolkestein's original operation is much the best, we may well decide to vote against the further compromise in order to maintain those original proposals. It remains yet to be seen. We should consider it at the end of the debate. . Conservative MEPs fully support the fight against terrorism and all the means which can be deployed to meet this end. We are aware of the fact that considerable negotiations have been underway between the European Commission and the US authorities regarding passenger information. We are satisfied that the agreement which has been reached provides the right balance between privacy and the means of protecting our lives and liberties. Whilst we understand that passengers may find this inconvenient from time to time, recent events have shown that we must all remain alert and vigilant. We are all in this fight together. – Mr President, I apologise for arriving a little late, but aircraft being what they are I am lucky to be here at all. Like Mr Simpson, I speak for the north-west of England, where the nuclear industry is of huge significance – in Springfield, where the rods are manufactured, Sellafield, where they are changed back into something more useful, and Warrington, the headquarters of British Nuclear Fuels. This industry is never complacent. It recognises the concerns of people in Britain and Europe about the transportation of nuclear material and takes huge trouble in testing what needs to be done. Its record in the transportation of dangerous goods is amongst the best. There has never been a fatality in the transportation of nuclear materials and, if the industry has its way, there never will be. The debate referred to by Mr Fitzsimons was one that I saw when I was Northern Ireland Minister. It is tendentious and ill-informed. It is also an attack – in which, if I may say so, the Group of the Greens is also involved – upon my constituents in the north-west and everyone else who works in this most important and significant industry both in Britain and in other parts of the Union. This is not the time for a debate on nuclear power except to say that it is the future. It is one of the greenest ways of generating power anywhere in the world. The sooner we realise that the better. I am delighted that my amendments in committee were significant in changing the nature of this report. I have tabled some more for the vote tomorrow, along similar lines. I am proud to be associated with the rejection of the original report and, I hope, the passing of the report as amended. – Mr President, the principle of European cooperation in defence procurement is well established. I have witnessed many projects in my own region, such as the Tornado, Eurofighter, even Airbus and its derivatives. Indeed, for a time, I was minister responsible for Aerospace and therefore for Airbus, so I am one of those who is very keen that the A400M flies as soon as possible. The north-west of England has many deep and longstanding commitments in all its industry to working alongside skilled and professional colleagues throughout the European Union. They have hopes of participating in the future, for example, in the Galileo Project, whether or not it has a defence role. The defence industrial base is hugely important to the Union. For strategic military reasons of course but also for the advanced technology which can often be put to civilian use and for the contribution to local communities in terms of jobs, infrastructure and profit. But there is wastage. There are cost over-runs, gold-plating, extra-contractual obligations – bribes, in English – and a lot more. To use military jargon: there should be a C3 for defence industries: cooperation, coordination and cost control. I and many of my colleagues in the British Conservative Group have concerns about the EDSP in principle. For example, what is the control and restraint on arms exports going to do to the sovereign rights of Member States? What exactly is the European Armament Agency going to do? Why should absolute priority be given to fulfilling the capabilities requirement of the EDSP? But generally these objectives are to be welcomed and, with a little finessing, I am sure can work. I support those broad objectives. – Mr President, on a point of order, I am sorry to delay the House when I know there is a large amount of voting to go on. I have just discovered from my agenda that the vote on my own report is to be taken last. I have not been consulted about this. Indeed I indicated earlier that this needed to be taken as early as possible in the voting because – and as one of those involved in aviation, I know this better than most – I have only got one flight to get me home. And so I am stuck! So I throw myself upon the mercy of the House and wonder whether it would be possible to vote early, rather than to vote late, on the Atkins report? Mr President, on a point of order before the voting starts, I had occasion to speak on this very point last time. The Vice-President at the time, Mr David Martin, undertook to inquire and refer the matter to you, but since you are now in the chair I shall ask you directly. It is becoming increasingly the case that although a time is set for the vote, it is delayed day after day. It seems unreasonable and incompetent to expect people to be here on time and then not to operate. Although today it is only seven minutes over, we had no previous business to delay us! Even if we have previous business, surely voting, which is so important in this House, should always take place punctually, with absolutely no leeway whatsoever. Everything else should be subjugated to it. I would ask you to look at this matter urgently. – As the parent of a diabetic daughter, can I support the honourable Member in her plea for Commission action and particularly congratulate her on the initiative that she and Mr Bovis are taking to bring this to the attention of Parliament. Because of the rise in the number of sufferers from this disease, there is often conflicting advice about the various treatments. Yet we hear almost daily of new research developments, both palliative and surgical. Does the Commissioner not agree with me that we need to to be able to offer the citizens of the European Union clear guidance about the progress of research? The Commission and the European Union could play a significant part in ensuring that the rise of this disease is matched only by the information about how to treat it and how to avoid it in the first place? – Mr President, much as I love Senator Doyle and her Irish friends, she is quite wrong about Sellafield in my constituency. I told her so, and the Irish government so when I was the Northern Ireland Minister responsible for Energy and I reiterate that view now. I applaud the British government's decision on the MOX plant, a long overdue decision which is going to ensure the economic and employment future of my constituents. So my message on that is to keep your hands off Sellafield. Briefly, about aviation. I congratulate Commissioner Palacio on the actions that she has already taken but there are three things we need to emphasise: firstly we must protect the aircraft on the ground; once someone is on the aircraft they can do more damage. Secondly we must renew and reinvigorate security screening at airports and thirdly we must assist with the costs of security and war-risk insurance. We must restore public confidence in aviation and the sooner the better. – Mr President, I am sorry to rise again on a point of order but I do so to challenge the ruling you made earlier, not in the context of the debate but in the context of the Rules of this House. If there is an equality of votes and if the honourable Member did vote, even though her machine did not work, then the procedure in any parliamentary assembly is that amendment falls. Therefore, in those circumstances I want you to tell me which part of our Rules suggests that your ruling is right, when clearly it is not. – Mr President, I rise on a point of order. Can someone please explain to me who makes the decision arbitrarily to change the time of the vote in this Parliament without a by-your-leave? We are told that a vote is going to happen at a certain time and it never seems to be the case. If it is possible to break a sitting for a formal sitting on the nail, why is it not possible to take the vote at the time which is announced without there being too much difficulty? Many Members of this House are getting fed up with these delays and want to know what the answer is. – Madam President, I wonder whether I could crave the indulgence of the House. I have spoken to Mr Sterckx about Amendment No 60 and the block that relates to it, which is Nos 52, 62, 57, 38 and 60. With the agreement of the rapporteur we would like to move my Amendment No 60 to be taken between Nos 52 and 62 if it comes to that. Mr Sterckx and the rapporteur are agreeable to that. – Madam President, on a point of order. If we are to debate this important question today, it is essential to have the amendments that were tabled in the various languages for us to know what we are debating. They are not available. I tried last night and first thing this morning. It seems to me an impossible state of affairs when we are debating a very important subject and amendments have come in late, together with those that went to committee, and we do not have them in our mother tongue. – Mr President, you will be aware of the great sense of shock at the fatal rail accident which took place last Friday at Potters Bar station in Hertfordshire, claiming the lives of seven people and injuring some 70 people. While the accident investigations are still taking place, this is not the time to draw conclusions, but I hope that, on behalf of Parliament, you will send condolences and sympathy to the families of the bereaved by the way of the British authorities, and also encourage the Commission to continue its liaison work with the rail administrators in safety matters. This is an extremely busy commuter line; literally thousands of people travel on it each day. I, with many others, travelled the exact route the evening before. A few miles up the line is the site of the fatal accident which took place in Hatfield only 18 months ago. Therefore I believe your initiative in this regard would be greatly appreciated. – I want initially to pay credit to Mr Harbour. I recall what he said about the long gestation period of this work and I would encourage the Commission not to feel that the timetable is an indefinite one. There has been a vacuum and I would encourage the Commission to feel that its restored sense of self-confidence is important to us here in the Parliament and more importantly to the peoples of Europe. Could I now draw attention to what Mr Lamassoure said in his explanatory statement about the institutional role of the Commission and particularly the political initiative. I do not often agree with my colleague Mr Van Dam who sits with me on the Estonian delegation. But he said two things I do accept, one that an attitudinal change was necessary and two, that enlargement is a key factor in the future success of the Commission. Mr Lamassoure says on enlargement that the Commission, as regards the accession process, is expected to propose a comprehensive strategy reflecting the Union's interest in its political timetable – not just an assessment regarding the suitability of each applicant country. When I was previously in this Parliament, the President of the Commission was Jacques Delors and he worked alongside Commissioner Brittan and before him Commissioner Cockfield. They did not wait for ideas to be handed down from the Council of Ministers. They themselves devised the single market programme. They worked hand-in-hand with the Parliament throughout. They promoted the scheme and they achieved it. There was a sense of great self-confidence and harmony between the institutions. I would simply say to Commissioner Kinnock, and I am sure he needs no encouragement in this, that it is not just a question of management or technical detail, it is a question of personnel and belief in what you are doing and belief that the Parliament will work alongside the Commission. We must have a goal. That goal is enlargement and it is extremely difficult to achieve but we look to the Commission to be the driving force and we want to work alongside it. President, as a former British European Commissioner once said: 'I hesitate to intervene'. I understand your ruling and respect that you are following the Rules of Procedure of this House. Formally, the Rules of Procedure permit elected Members present to put supplementary questions to the President-in-Office of the Council. May I put a question about the Cornish language to the President-in-Office of the Council? – Mr President, Commissioner, as you heard from our Group chairman earlier in the debate, the EPP visited Berlin last week. Before leaving, I and some colleagues were able to visit Potsdam where of course the conference took place where President Truman, Prime Minister Churchill – bizarrely replaced by Mr Atley mid-conference – and Marshal Stalin agreed to confirm the Yalta division of Europe. The Swedish Presidency, as we have heard during the debate, has raised high hopes that we may achieve over the next six months the restoration of a unified Europe, but I believe the time for rhetoric has passed and what we are all looking for now are results. I wonder if four questions could be transmitted to the Swedish Presidency. First of all, does it intend to convene a council or a special meeting to which the government representatives of the candidate countries would be invited, not only to facilitate the negotiations, but to give the important signal to the public that enlargement is not merely a political exercise, a mirage, a constantly distant objective, but that we are genuinely making the progress which is required? Secondly, could the bureaucratic negotiations be tempered by an understanding of the past? It does seem cruelly difficult in a sense that the way the enlargement process is presented is merely a question of conforming to some technicalignoring, perhaps, the specific difficulties that the Baltic Republics and other Central and Eastern European countries faced under the Soviet system. With the timetable which we have set ourselves: does the Swedish Presidency agree that this necessitates transitional periods, and, finally, can we confirm that no new hurdles will be placed in the path of the candidate countries. Clearly today it has been Sweden's day. We all very much hope that in six months' time in Gothenburg, once again, it will not only be Sweden's day, but Europe's day. Madam President, Commissioner, Mrs Prets, I have listened quite carefully to what our Commissioner has said. I am sorry, but I did not really hear the answer to the clear and precise questions contained in this report. In paragraph 45, if I have understood it correctly, there is a question which is addressed directly to you, Commissioner, and that is whether or not you intend to send, on behalf of the Commission, a communication to the Council and to Parliament, which will relate specifically to a UNESCO convention on cultural diversity. If I have understood you correctly, you spoke about this question at length but I did not learn whether or not Parliament can expect a communication from you. If the answer is yes, can you tell me on what date, during the course of this year, you intend to send that communication? – Mr President, I was unaware that British Members of this House had a reputation for being verbose!  The President of the Commission introduced the communication in broad outline, so perhaps I could ask Commissioner Patten about two points of detail since he has touched on them. Could we have an assurance that, as the President has said, we are not attempting to create a new iron curtain and that, for example, the present visa arrangements between Poland and Ukraine will not be made more difficult once Poland becomes a member of the European Union? I see the President of the Commission is nodding, so that will cut down the time for his answer. The second question to Commissioner Patten is that, since the acceding Member States have tremendous experience of relations with countries such as Ukraine, Belarus and Russia, would it not be timely now to set up some sort of working party? Those acceding Member States could then begin to feed in their experience in foreign policy relations with our new neighbours, perhaps reporting to Commissioner Verheugen or indeed to Commissioner Patten himself. – Mr President, I speak as shadow rapporteur on behalf of my group. We congratulate Mrs Frays on her report and will broadly support its adoption. We have tabled two amendments which we hope the House will accept. The report constitutes a useful analysis of measures to encourage theatre and the performing arts throughout the EU, particularly focusing on the need for mobility. Presaging the enlarged EU, the rapporteur's explanatory statement notes that the candidate countries could not support cultural programmes through the PHARE and TACIS programmes but that artistic cooperation has been enhanced through the THEOREM programme, by which they gained access to the Culture 2000 programme last year, as Commissioner Reding has just reminded us. In Mrs Fraisse's speech she drew attention to the need for vision and coherence in cultural matters in the EU and particularly in the enlarged EU. I very much support that. It is timely, following the Commission's announcement of approval for the ten candidate countries to accede to the EU and this weekend's referendum in Ireland, which cleared a potential obstacle to the enlarged EU. The EU's character is going to change very dramatically, particularly with the accession of the Central and East European countries. Culture surely has a huge role to play in this respect. To what extent does the existing programme deal with the years of collective amnesia in Western Europe, perhaps not so much in Germany and Austria, where there were always historical and family links, but in other countries where the shadow of the iron curtain still exists. Bearing in mind Mrs Fraisse's call for vision and coherence, have we really done enough to bring home to the public in the present EU what completing the European family is going to mean, in the theatre and performing arts as well as other cultural fields? When Stalin outlined his project for Central and Eastern Europe, Winston Churchill's reply was ‘the eagle must let the small bird sing’. I wonder whether we feel today that all the institutions of the EU have done enough to let the small bird sing. – I would like to thank the President-in-Office Mr Sasi for the comments he made earlier on during this debate. Firstly, he confirmed the continued cooperation between the Council and the European Parliament and his forthcoming visit to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But he also confirmed that in the IGC enlargement would remain at the core, at the heart of the envisaged Treaty reforms and, secondly, that the timetable would be adhered to. I believe both of those are important aspects. First of all, on enlargement, we are talking here about enlargement of a very different scale and nature to anything that has happened before, and that has implications for the nature of the IGC which prepares for it. We are talking in the main about countries from Central and Eastern Europe which have enjoyed, as we all know, 40 years of dictatorship when civil society was emasculated, driven underground and destroyed. Although ten years have elapsed and great strides have now been made, I believe that a good deal of confidence-building is still required and that we need the openness that many of us have called for in the preparation and the implementation of these reforms. As the IGC takes place there are two aspects, therefore, that we in the European Parliament should remember. One is that in the past, IGCs have not prepared public opinion until the Treaty reforms had actually been agreed, particularly in reference to Maastricht. This had unfortunate consequences in a number of Member States. I believe we should learn the lessons from that mistake of the past and realise that the importance of this particular enlargement, the re-uniting of the European family, is something which our public at home needs to be made aware of while the IGC is actually taking place. And I believe that openness should also extend to the applicant countries themselves. It would be most unfortunate if we as the institutions of the EU saw this merely as a bureaucratic or a constitutional exercise to our own interest and our own advantage. It is specifically for the purpose of enlargement that openness is necessary. Therefore I believe that, where possible, not only should our own domestic public opinion be engaged at all stages but also the public opinion of the applicant countries in Central and Eastern Europe. I appreciate that that is a break in tradition from the nature of a governmental conference as we understood it in the past. But as I say, this is a very different type of IGC and therefore we have to be imaginative in the way that we present ourselves to the public. So I may not put a question to the President-in-Office? Mr President, I believe Mrs Frassoni made a comment about voting on Amendment No 4. A number of votes were taken en bloc. If I am correct, I think the point she made was that temporary committees would no longer have the same status as they have had in the past: Parliament would not be able to set up temporary committees. Mr Corbett, am I right on this point? – Madam President, on Wednesday's draft agenda there is a joint debate on the Middle East at 3 p.m. It might be helpful for colleagues if in advance of that debate, in which there will be a great deal of interest, Parliament's services would consider reprinting copies of the joint address to this House by the Speaker of the Knesset and the Speaker of the Palestinian Legislative Council. The message delivered on that occasion might shed some light in our current darkness. I know that. I am not aware that Ms Ahern or Mrs Morgantini are members of the PPE-DE Group. – Mr President, on a point of order. Commissioner Bolkestein has just joined a long list of his colleagues who have been subjected to a procedure in this Parliament which is no longer acceptable. He was making an important speech to a full House but the only people listening were members of the public and our electorate in the Gallery. I insist that this matter now be referred to the Bureau and that, as of September, we see no further repetition.  We are all guilty of talking. We can, of course, all listen to the Commissioner through our headphones. However, if this Parliament is not conscious of the image it portrays to the public, then it should be. So, as of September, however it may be done – perhaps you could let off a siren at ear-piercing levels – the Commissioner should be heard, like any other speaker in this Chamber, in dignity and silence. – Mr Prodi, your paper on European governance is an important milestone, but on a technical issue my colleague, Mr Dell'Alba, pointed out to you in a previous debate that, while the word ‘governance’ may be very common in the English and French languages, in Italian political culture it is to some extent opaque. If that is the case, it may well be that we have to get the message through in each of the EU languages. Perhaps attention could be paid to those languages in which the word ‘gouvernance’, first used by Sir John Fortescue in England in the fifteenth century when the English political class spoke French, is less clearly understood than in English and French. We ought to look at that point. Reading your paper, it struck me that in a sense the first stage of recovery in the building of Europe is for the Commission itself to recover its self-confidence and poise. I pay credit to you Mr Prodi, and to your colleagues Mr Patten, Mr Barnier and others, for having succeeded in restoring this poise after the resignation of your predecessors. However, as you know – and you drew attention to this in your speech – there is concern in Parliament about giving respect to the institutional triangle. There are fears about your use of civil society, which we all know really means consulting lobby groups. The most effective lobby groups do their job, which is not to represent society at large – that is this elected Parliament's duty – but to represent their own vested interest. So I am afraid the fact that you drew attention to this concern has not allayed our fears and we will continue to insist that it is we, the elected Members of this House, who represent the interests of society at large and you should not set up groups meeting directly with the Commission, evolving policy and then handing it down to us to rubber-stamp. That is not our understanding of parliamentary democracy. I am sorry that Mr Farage has left. He obviously does not believe in parliamentary democracy. He wants a referendum every five minutes. It is absurd that in my own country, once the Prime Minister, Mr Blair, summons up the courage to confront the Chancellor, Mr Brown, we will be asked in a referendum to decide whether or not to join the single currency. Can you imagine our financial and economic future being discussed in public houses up and down the country? This is a job that elected politicians should do. As regards your paper, the European Parliament and the Commission should be partners in the construction of Europe, not rivals. If we remember the days of Jacques Delors, your predecessor, he had a clear programme, a vision: the 1992 single market. He set out a time frame and turned that vision into reality. We must do the same with enlargement and constitutional reform, widening and deepening. Lastly, Mr Prodi, will you organise a public platform for the leaders of the candidate countries that will be joining the EU? I know you have already met the new Polish leader, but the public at large needs to be able to see in practice that we have a vision of a fully complete, united Europe and that you, Parliament and the Council are working together to achieve this. – Mr President, the Mediterranean is the cradle of European civilisation. The legacy of ancient Egypt, Greece and Rome shaped our culture, our literature, our very understanding of the common European heritage. Around the Mediterranean the three monotheistic religions – Judaism, Christianity, Islam – were founded and fostered and spread throughout the known world. Our debt to the Mediterranean is not only historical and cultural, it informs our common interest today in enlargement. It is true that covers mainly countries from Central and Eastern Europe, but the candidate countries include the two famous Mediterranean island peoples: the Maltese and the Cypriots. I very much hope that the Mediterranean programme and the enlargement process may be seen as complementary and not conflicting. It is suitable that today the presidency should be manned by Mr Danielsson from Nordic Europe. An example of North-South solidarity was when Prime Minister Aznar attended the Gdansk commemoration celebrating the foundation of the Solidarnosc movement. I hope that improved relations between the EU and North Africa may result from the Mediterranean programme. Today we wait for the outcome of the Lockerbie trial from a Scottish court in the Netherlands, but I understand it is the intention of the British to foster, in future, better diplomatic and other relations with, for example, Libya. I have a question for the Council. Could Mr Danielsson confirm that the EU’s Mediterranean programme is coordinated with the enlargement process to which the presidency attaches so much importance? I wonder if it might be possible for the Commissioner in his reply to dwell on the criticisms of underspending sometimes levelled at the MEDA programme. Is it the case that the Commission stands ready when necessary to give administrative support in the formulation of suitable programmes, as they did in the past when I wrote a report on the Alfama and Mouraria areas of Lisbon? Is it the case that, if there were to be underspending, the money could be relocated? Finally, concerning paragraph 54 of the Naïr report, could the Commissioner also confirm that the two Mediterranean candidate countries might be able to participate in the Euromed Heritage programme. – Mr President, firstly I would like to add my voice to those who earlier paid their respects to the memory of President Pflimlin. One of his lasting legacies is an understanding of the continuing need of the strength of the three political institutions of the EU and for mutual respect between them. It is perhaps inevitable as we are discussing the ending of the Portuguese Presidency that, with the recent speeches in Berlin, the memory is going to focus more on the second half of the IGC than the first, but I would like at this stage to record my thanks to the Portuguese Presidency for their assiduousness in consulting the Parliament both here in the plenary and in the Constitutional Affairs Committee. The Berlin speeches by Foreign Minister Fischer, visionary and controversial, by President Chirac, controversial but not visionary, and by Prime Minister Blair, neither visionary nor controversial, which threaten to overshadow the memory of the Portuguese Presidency, leave certain questions in the mind which the Portuguese Presidency can still help us with. Firstly I understand that Prime Minister Jospin has said that he would rather see no agreement in December in Nice than an unsatisfactory institutional reform. Could the Portuguese Presidency confirm that sufficient work has been done to ensure that agreement can be reached in December? Secondly, on enlargement, could he confirm that there is still the political will in the Council so that candidate countries, this House and the public of Europe can expect to hear target dates announced for the first wave of accession? This is something that the Commission and many in this House would like to see. My last question on close cooperation would include Commissioner Patten, if he is able to demonstrate that he has not imposed a vow of silence. Is it the case that the Council still attaches importance to the democratic interplay between the three institutions and that closer cooperation will not inevitably mean greater decision making by one institution, by the Council, to the detriment of Parliament and Commission and, by implication, the people of Europe? – Mr President, today the President of Latvia visited the European Parliament. The story of Mrs Vike Freiberga is illustrative of the courage in adversity shown by the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe. As a seven year-old girl she was forced to flee her country before the advance of the Red Army, a fugitive hiding in ditches to avoid being strafed by Soviet aircraft. We might also choose to remember the heroism of Solidarnosc in Poland, the President of the Czech Republic Vaclav Havel, the generations in Hungary since 1956 who have sought to restore their freedom and independence. On the one hand, Mr Védrine, we see courage and even heroism; on the other we look at the Council of Ministers, the IGC about to assemble in Nice: Do we see courage, resolution, determination to succeed? At the moment, as your address has demonstrated, we see disunion, squabbling and the prospect of failure. Will you be able at Nice to support the European Parliament’s resolution which calls upon the preparations to be secure so that the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe may vote in the next European Parliamentary elections in 2004? Will you, President Prodi and your colleague Commissioner Verheugen, instruct the Commission to open those chapters for the applicant countries who have achieved everything we have so far required so that at Nice we can look the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe in the eye and say: yes, we have succeeded in making the necessary reforms and within the lifetime of one Parliament you will also take your place in Brussels and Strasbourg. I do not believe that failure is an option. We have been talking about Amsterdam leftovers. Our public in the EU and the public in the candidate countries will not accept the prospect of Nice leftovers, of a second IGC in 2004. I hope that we are in a position to congratulate the French Presidency for its success; but if you fail, we shall be harsh in our condemnation. –I voted against the joint resolution due to elements it contains which have been consistently opposed by the UK Conservative Party. It should, however, be emphasised that the strong endorsement of EU enlargement, highlighted by Amendment 1, which was adopted, I wholeheartedly subscribe to. Mr President, Commissioner, having listened to Commissioner Reding briefly, I am lost for words because it seems to me that this subject is very important. One may be a qualified teacher, but what can you do without resources, without money, especially at European level? The Council of Ministers occasionally shows greater generosity towards European projects, but it is difficult for it to do so because, as we know, with subsidiarity education normally remains a national matter. However that may be, if I am speaking on my own behalf and not as a Member of the European Parliament, if I am speaking as a former history teacher, I recognise that while money is indeed important for education there is something even more important. As Mrs Reding would say, education is also about training and the mind. Everyone here today, including those in the public gallery, was once a child and went to school and we can all remember good teachers. We forget the bad teachers and remember the good ones. What is a good teacher? It is someone who loves his subject, who also loves his pupils and also, of necessity, their families. This report by rapporteurs Pack, Prets and Iivari is very important and I pay tribute to their work. It is not the end of the story, however. The end of the story would be that the generations that come after us should perhaps be able to achieve something that goes beyond what our regional and national systems can give. From our point of view as Members of Parliament, members of an EU institution, there is room for culture and education at European level. I hope that this report will be well received by the Council of Ministers and that teachers and pupils will thus be able to expand their minds a little. Culture and education are neither regional nor national nor European, they are all three at once. . – The UK delegation of the EPP-ED reserves its position on paragraph 35, which calls for Article 151 to be changed to operate under qualified majority rule. Notwithstanding this reservation the delegation supports the overall stance of the Vander Taelen report. – (FR) Madam President, can you confirm this latest electronic vote? Is it a vote by roll call or not? (The President replied that the vote was confirmed)  May we have a vote by roll call? Mr President, I have three minutes to make a speech about the importance of culture for our children and the future of the education systems across the European Union. As a famous French historian might have commented, : this is not a subject which should be treated lightly. Commissioner Reding is absolutely right that our own national governments should be encouraged to support the initiative of the rapporteur, supported by the Commission, that when it comes to programmes and projects affecting education, they might consider a certain generosity of spirit and indeed financial generosity towards the programmes that we are commonly working to support. At the base of this misunderstanding is the notion that culture is purely national. Of course a part of culture is national, but as the rapporteur points out, we have many identities; we have a local and a regional identity and indeed a European identity. It is not a historical accident that the rapporteur’s country and my country, England, share the same patron saint – St George. Unhappily perhaps, this may have something to do with the fact that England and Portugal, allies of old, founded this union in battle – a crusade – in the Iberian Peninsula. Our children must of course learn about conflict and disagreement and their disastrous consequences, but they should also learn about what brings people together: commerce and trade, for example. Between England and Portugal there is the cork trade and indeed the port wine trade. What role do our schools have in sharing the upbringing of the young? As Commissioner Reding has pointed out, it is not only schools – and I speak as a former teacher of young children. I was always conscious, however, that the lasting impressions had been made way before school by families; by parents and grandparents. A minister of propaganda in a European dictatorship said, 'When I hear the word culture, I reach for my revolver'. That sounds as if it is meant to be a flippant comment, but we know what tragic consequences dictatorship brought to human lives in so many European countries. I would hope that the Council of Ministers, when it next discusses these matters to which the Commission has drawn our attention, will have sufficient generosity of spirit to say that it will increase the education and culture budget – not simply in terms of finance, but in also terms of expertise, interest and political support – and that we will learn about our neighbours and about our common culture and heritage. Egypt, Crete, Greece, Rome and so on are of course part of England's experience, as indeed that of Portugal, Germany and everywhere else. But unless our children are given a sound basis of knowledge and understanding, then perhaps later on in life it will become harder for them to gain a successful career and sufficient financial resources. Sound knowledge, however, may bring them a little wisdom in times of difficulty. I hope that wisdom may be shared in the Council of Ministers. . – Madam President, my opinion dealt largely with the technical progress of the Commission's negotiations with the candidate countries on the relevant chapters, but it also called on both the Council and the Commission to redouble their efforts to raise awareness of public opinion. I wonder whether in their summing-up replies both Minister de Miguel and Commissioner Verheugen might refer to progress, as far as public opinion is concerned, and any further initiatives they have in mind. We all pay lip service to this – bearing in mind the referenda – but much greater practical application is required, in particular from the Member States, not simply from the institutions of the European Union itself. I have three thoughts concerning action in the Member States. Firstly, further public platforms should be given to leaders from the candidate countries, not only political but also cultural leaders – writers, film-makers, and musicians. Secondly, the links between the institutions of civil society should be publicised. Thirdly, something should be done to overcome the collective amnesia which was imposed by the Soviet tyranny on western Europe, allowing us to forget the thousand years of cultural, political and commercial links which we are now in the process of restoring. – Commissioner Barnier, you laid great stress in your statement on the importance of dialogue with the citizens of Europe. With reference to the IGC, as you know, under the Helsinki decisions the Portuguese Presidency was given the specific entitlement to add to the agenda of the IGC during the course of the IGC. Clearly, Parliament has its own representatives present, Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos. But would you, Commissioner, also be in a position to give an undertaking that if and when the agenda is enlarged by the Council you would report this to Parliament so that we could discuss it amongst ourselves and indeed with you, with the intention of continuing that dialogue with the citizens on which you have laid such stress? – Mr President, on a point of order. Following Mr Titley's observation, I would simply say that this is a most important question. I am sure those who were not able to speak were very pleased to hear the Commissioner's comments. I will submit my questions to him in writing. I should like to point out that four of our colleagues here today asked three questions. If the President, and indeed colleagues, would limit themselves to one question, by my mathematics nine further speakers might have been called. – Mr President, Mr Jarzembowski observes in his explanatory statement that we have to strengthen rail transport, to increase the efficiency and competitiveness of railways in order to reverse the downward trend of their share in the market in the last 15 years. He observes that little progress has been made by the Member States in implementing the separation of the rail service operations from those of infrastructure management and we do not see in most countries any effective opening-up of the rail market. In the United Kingdom considerable credit could well be paid to the former Conservative government for effecting just that, a policy which has been continued by the current Labour government. However, last October the Hatfield train crash took place in Hertfordshire, part of the eastern region which I represent in this Parliament. Four people lost their lives and many were seriously injured. The accident took place on a bend with the train travelling at 115 mph. It appears that the infrastructure authorities were aware of the fracturing of the rail as early as November 1999 and a further report was made in January of last year. No remedial action was taken. The British transport minister, Lord McDonald, has announced there will be no be no public inquiry. However, named members of Railtrack, the infrastructure company, and of Balfour Beatty possibly face manslaughter charges as a result of this accident. I turn to the Commissioner, who I am sure is aware of the details of this particular accident, which I would point out is not unique within the European Union, and I would hope that she would be able perhaps to dwell on the consequences of the crash. In the United Kingdom there has been chaos on our railways, there has been plummeting customer confidence in the rail system, remedial work has caused huge financial investment and Railtrack has threatened a delay in work on the Euro Channel Tunnel Phase II programme which is very much part of the integrated European rail system that we all support. I very much hope that the Commissioner may be able to give some support to the relevant authorities in the United Kingdom. This is not merely a domestic issue. It has European ramifications as far as the Channel Tunnel work is concerned. It may well be that additional support can be given through the TENs programme and I look forward to my discussions with the Commissioner on this extremely serious development. – Mr President, I very rarely rise on a point of order and particularly now when we have extremely important votes to conduct, I only do so on what I consider to be an extremely important point. Your predecessor in the chair has just apologised to Commissioner Reding and I think that the whole House would wish to endorse that verbal apology. This week we have demonstrated here in Parliament that when we want to call the Commission to order, we can do so and the Commission responds in the appropriate manner. But when a Commissioner is making an extremely important speech which demonstrates the amount of work and effort that she has put into a subject, which perhaps generates as much interest in the people we represent as anything else, there is complete chaos and a shambles in the Chamber. I do not accept what your predecessor said, that it was difficult to call the house to order; that can always be done and it should be done. My request is that an apology to Commissioner Reding be now made in writing on behalf of Parliament and I hope this is not an experience we see repeated. I should like to put a question to the President-in-Office that has been already answered in part. I support the drift of the question from Mr Paisley that all minority languages should be given equality of esteem. The Breton language exists in Brittany. I had the honour of representing Cornwall and Plymouth in this House for ten years. Speaking as an Englishman, I find it sad that the Cornish language died out in the 18th century. It may not be within your, power, President-in-Office, to fully answer Mr Paisley's question, but I support what you said about the importance of the Irish language. Could you reconfirm that you would give equal weight to other minority languages – by which I mean cultures – throughout the whole of the European Union, including the ten new Member States? Mr President, I would like to reply to the comments that have been made in previous months at this point on the agenda by Members of the GUE/NGL Group criticising the situation in Latvia, and in particular the position of Russian speakers. It seems to me that many of those comments have been unfair and misleading. They do not refer back to the illegal Soviet occupation of Latvia, nor indeed to the Hitler-Stalin or Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact. I believe that the comments were politically motivated, ignoring the very great diversity within Russian-speaking Latvians. My final point - because I believe an official rebuttal is needed - is on the Latvian electoral law. My understanding is that former members of the KGB are not permitted to stand for election; it seems to me that is in accordance with the national legislation. In this House I am sure we welcome all the new Member States into the European Union. It is important that we understand the sensitivities and the histories of those countries. I hope there will be no further comments from the GUE/NGL Group on this subject. – Madam President, we see how seriously my Party takes matters in this House. As a Member of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, speaking on behalf of Lord Inglewood, I must say that it seems very nearly a year is sufficient time for the powers that be to have considered this matter. If it is not placed on the agenda this week this is clearly going to cause difficulties for the committee in question. I would urge all Members of the House, including my colleague Mr Provan, to vote in favour of this suggestion. – Mr President, may I first pay credit to my colleague, Mr Heaton-Harris, for the initial work he did in drafting this report before he moved to another committee. The rapid development of the audio-visual media has brought many real benefits in terms of education, spreading greater awareness of public affairs around the world, and not least in the field of entertainment. However, along with the undoubted advantages, there have also been concerns that, given the generally greater adeptness of children at using audio-visual resources, in some areas there are dangers of their obtaining access to unsuitable or harmful material. This is most obvious in the fields of overt sexual material and gratuitous violence. The principles which have guided this report are to encourage greater public awareness of these issues and to support parental responsibility and to develop co-operation between the content providers, consumer organisations and the respective authorities, both national and European. Self-regulation is considered to be the main instrument, underpinned by legal requirements where necessary. The report, which analyses the Commission's evaluation report, is primarily concerned with the Internet and with video games, as it was felt important not to anticipate a possible future review of the Television without Frontiers directive. The report calls for user-friendly content filter systems to enable parents to predetermine the sort of content which they feel is unsuitable viewing for their children and, in this regard I very much welcome the fact that, since the report was first drafted, the Internet Content Rating Association (ICRA), has launched a filter system available free of charge, an initiative supported by the Commission. We also called for greater public awareness, for education campaigns and hotlines to be set up, as already exists in TV broadcasting, so that complaints about illegal or harmful content may be recorded by consumers, particularly by parents. We consider that so-called 'Internet Chat Rooms' should be subject to greater monitoring, both of the rules for their installation and in relation to their use. As far as video games are concerned, we call upon the Member States to continue to promote the rating of video games, again through self-regulation, but if that is considered to be inadequate in some cases, it should be backed up by the introduction of agreed minimum standards of content and promotion. It is also hoped that the Member States will continue to exchange best practice in this field and co-ordinate measures which are taken in co-operation with the industry and with content providers. The report does not seek to sensationalise or exaggerate perceived dangers, but it does provide a useful framework to encourage public awareness of the risks involved and to provide practical remedies. Finally, Parliament calls on the Commission to draw up a further report, preferably before the end of this year, on the implementation of the recommendation with specific reference to implementation in each Member State. I commend the report to the House. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Costa, Commissioner, the Portuguese Presidency clearly has an extremely full range of responsibilities over the next six months. I would like to add my best wishes for a successful outcome in them all. The priority to which all of them are directed is clearly the enlargement of the European Union, an enlargement different in scale and nature from any previous enlargement. We also know that the external affairs of the EU extend into Eastern Europe, and the action plan for the common strategy in Ukraine has already born fruit since the Helsinki Summit with the announcement of the abolition of the death penalty. Foreign Minister Gama’s opening sentence in his address to us this morning touched on the importance of public opinion and on reassuring the people of Europe. I have just one question which the President-in-Office could perhaps touch on in his reply. Would he give a reassurance that his concern about public opinion includes public opinion in the applicant countries of Central and Eastern Europe. He may not feel that this is the appropriate time to give details of what initiatives he has in mind to ensure that not only is the momentum of negotiations maintained, but support in the applicant countries is also guaranteed. I would be grateful for that reassurance in his reply. – Mr President, it is not easy to criticise the French presidency during this debate as it is not present. I understand that President Chirac, Mr Vedrine and Mr Moscovici have other important meetings to attend. However, I am sure that the President of the European Commission, Mr Prodi, has important meetings to attend as has Commissioner Barnier and yet they have done us the courtesy to wait for the end of this debate. Mr Moscovici says we should not blame him, we should blame other governments at the Council. It is deplorable that he has not found it possible to find a deputy to wait for the end of our deliberations. We are after all hoping that we shall be joined by applicant countries from Central and Eastern Europe who have been used to the arrogance of government and people not being present, to people giving speeches and then disappearing. I deplore the fact that Mr Moscovici has found no deputy. Has Nice been a success? Mr Moscovici says that we must turn to our own national governments and criticise them. I am happy to do that. Mr Blair returned to Great Britain as a conquering hero because he had not surrendered this, had not surrendered that and had fought for Britain's interests. Well, of course, I support him in that but what has he actually achieved? He tells us that he has ensured that enlargement will take place. I do not know whether the Commission will reply at the end of this debate but I wonder, in the absence of the Council, whether the Commission is equally confident that by 2004 this European Parliament will contain Czech, Hungarian and Polish Members of the European Parliament and Members from the Baltic States. Mr Moscovici says that of course you must temper your idealism with realism. I just ask him: Did General de Gaulle temper his idealism with realism, or Winston Churchill? "Public opinion will not wear this." "We cannot get this through the House of Commons." "Oh, there is a referendum." Is there? Have we no leadership in the European Union? Where is the Council? Where are the governments? It is deplorable and the only hopeful sign is that the European Commission has clearly recovered its sense of self-confidence. This European Parliament will join with the European Commission in insisting that our demands are met. – President, Commissioner, we are faced with a fundamental difficulty, in the exercise in which we are involved, in maintaining the balance between enlarging the EU and reforming the institutions to make that enlargement possible. British Conservatives cannot accept the report, based on the long list of ancillary items which are not on the agenda of the IGC. We are concerned by the proposals for constitutionalisation of the Union, by the proposals to incorporate the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the Treaty, by the progressive diminishing of the distinction between the first and second pillars, by the proposal that the Council should adopt broad guidelines of economic, employment and social convergence policies by qualified majority. These are just some examples of the complex and controversial issues which are raised. We are overloading the wish list of the IGC. The great danger, if all these extra items were to be adopted on the agenda, is that the deadline of December 2000 would inevitably be missed. Where would that leave the candidate countries like Poland and Hungary, whose government leaders have already expressed concern over the timetable? We believe the IGC should concentrate on the essential institutional reforms. It should ensure that it meets the deadline, to enable the first wave of enlargement to include Central and Eastern European countries by 2004, and to continue any further necessary reforms with the full inclusion of our new partners. If the EU delays enlargement too long, it may make it more difficult, or impossible, for some candidate countries to join within the envisaged timetable. The President-in-Office addressed some of these concerns in his speech. Commissioner Barnier in his speech said that the intention is to succeed with the reforms, not necessarily to conclude them. Some people say that this is the last opportunity for reform. I do not think that is a very fair reflection on the extraordinary reforms that many of the candidate countries have made in the last 9 and 10 years since they were within the Warsaw Pact or formerly part of the Soviet Union. Our priority is enlargement. We should not confuse or reverse our priorities. – Mr President, we have heard that progress was made at Biarritz on closer cooperation. I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Gil-Robles, on a clear lucid report setting out Parliament’s position. My British Conservative colleagues support moves towards greater flexibility. We have reservations on the abolition of the veto and progressive elimination of the pillared structure so we shall be constrained to abstain on the overall vote. Minister, it is recorded that on the eve of the Bolshevik Revolution – an event that was to have such desperate consequences throughout the world – the Russian Orthodox Church was engaged in complex discussions on the design of vestments during Lent. This is an apocryphal story to illustrate the dangers of dwelling on the detail of technical matters to the extent of obscuring the massive challenges to be faced. I hope the Treaty of Nice is achieved and seen to be a success and that closer cooperation is included as a welcome move in the direction of flexibility. But will it be sufficient to ensure that enlargement takes place within the timetable envisaged? – Mr President, on a point of order. I do not wish to delay matters. What Mr Dell'Alba has said is absolutely right. We have proved that 99.9% of Members of the European Parliament are capable of keeping up with the technological skills of their children. It would be quite absurd now not to proceed with the concluding votes on the Quaestors. As to the last point made by my colleague on the other side of the House about secrecy, I have not a single clue as to how my colleagues on this side of the House voted, because I did not choose to peer over their shoulders. – Madam President, I do not wish to delay proceedings, but just to follow up on the point, which has been made on a number of occasions, about parliamentary immunity. I could be wrong, but my understanding is that the purpose of parliamentary immunity for Members of Parliament acting in the Parliament – not outside the Parliament – is to allow you to represent the people who elected you. It is not so that you can necessarily represent your own views in whatever manner you choose. In other words, when you are outside this House, you are just the same as anyone else. You are on your own. . British Conservative Members will vote against the report because of the well-rehearsed opposition to the extension of QMV and proposed incorporation of the blanket of fundamental rights into the Treaty. Concerning enhanced cooperation, they support the initiative as it is compatible with the view that greater flexibility be introduced into the operation of the EU. Conservatives also support the statement in Paragraph 7 of the report that democratic control be ensured and that the three pillar system be enabled to work. The notion that Parliament’s assent be required to authorise the procedure would only be necessary if the existing unanimity rule in the Council were to be waived. Mr President, is it in order for me to put a supplementary question to the President-in-Office following the questions raised by Ms Ahern and Mrs Morgantini? – Mr President, as someone who suffers from a neurological complaint, to wit Parkinson's disease, I am naturally biased in this matter, but I am a little shocked by the frequent use of terms like ‘unacceptable’ and ‘dignity’ applied to people who wish to find a solution through medical research to the terrible problems facing those who suffer from neurological disease, such as Alzheimer's, motor neurone and Parkinson's. There is no dignity in dying of motor neurone disease and there is precious little dignity in suffering from Parkinson's either. So I want to commend to the House the view of the sufferer as well as the view – if there is to be one – of the person who is concerned above all about preserving the embryo. If I thought that an embryo had the same human rights as a child or an adult human being, I would not, of course, not be in favour of anything that meant the destruction of human life. But the laws of our Member States by and large accept that there is a difference between an embryo, a fertilised egg and an adult or child who is already a human being. The human rights of the one are not quite the same as the human rights of the other. That is what the law says in most of our Member States. I do not believe that the founder of the Christian religion, who set great store by healing the sick, would inhibit those who simply want to cure sick people. I cannot believe that this is the intention of the Christian ethic. – Mr President, with regret I have to inform the House of the arrest yesterday in Moscow of Vladimir Alexandrovich Gusinsky, chief executive of the Most-Media group of television, radio and newspaper outlets. Mr Gusinsky is a leading Russian community leader, being chairman of the Russian Jewish Congress and deputy chairman of the World Jewish Congress. This morning he is in what is known as a general purpose cell in Butyrsky prison where conditions are such that they must be left to your imagination. Mr Gusinsky's media activities were the only ones permitted to criticise Mr Putin and his government. His independent television is the only one that questions the behaviour of Russian troops in Chechnya. His programme Dolls, based on Britain's Spitting Image, satirises the President, something which supposedly causes him great irritation. His radio station Moscow Echo was selected by President Clinton a few days ago for the only substantive interview that he gave to a Russian outlet. On 11 May Mr Gusinsky's places of work were raided by so-called tax police – men in ski masks and camouflage outfits carrying Kalashnikov rifles. There are few Russians who do not see a connection between Gusinsky's criticisms and the heavy-handed treatment now being meted out to him. Now we have this arrest and Mr Putin says he knows nothing about it. This latest event leaves Russia teetering on the brink. Either Mr Putin backs down and releases Mr Gusinsky, or we shall have to conclude that Russia's brave attempt to establish a free press has turned out a failure and their democracy an illusion. The consequences of this will be devastating. It will mean goodbye Council of Europe, goodbye Partnership for Peace, farewell Tacis and a warm welcome to a new arms race. The European Parliament must do what it can to avert this catastrophe. I ask you, Mr President, to confer with your colleagues so that the whole range of EU-Russia relations can be investigated, debated and our influence brought to bear not least on the turbulent Mr Putin, who is putting us all in danger. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the President-in-Office and the Commissioner for their remarks. In particular for what they have had to say about the death penalty and the situation in China and Iran. I only regret that the word Russia was not mentioned by either gentleman because it occurs to me that the situation in Russia is worrying. This needs to be considered by the Commission in particular if we are to look towards a satisfactory human rights situation in Europe as a whole. With any luck the timing will be good and Mr Patten will be able to raise certain questions with the Russian President. It is very timely that this matter should come up because it is nearly ten years since the collapse of the Soviet Union. At that time we had very high hopes that the whole of Europe would become a human rights-favourable zone but of course things never turn out exactly as one hopes. The situation in particular in Byelorussia has deteriorated dramatically and there have been the most horrible civil wars and massacres on a massive scale in the Balkans. We must congratulate ourselves in Europe on some progress but not enough has been achieved. I am particularly happy to see what has occurred in Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. The human rights situation in those countries has improved dramatically and in the Baltic States with the build-up of the mixed economic system. Some people do not consider that to be a human right, but I believe in fact that it is and represents another step forward that we should welcome. It moves me very deeply every summer to see in the resorts of the Mediterranean and elsewhere large numbers of holidaymakers from eastern and central Europe including Russia holidaying in the way that we have done for many decades. It is, as a British Foreign Secretary, Ernest Bevin, used to say, the main purpose of a foreign policy to allow citizens to be able to travel with a minimum of bureaucratic interference and annoyance. I believe though that I should mention two or three of the particular problems of Russia. One of them is one in which I have a registered interest, namely the question of Media-Most, and the alternative television system of Russia. I hope that Mr Patten is well briefed on the question of the present detention of the chairman of Media-Most, Mr Vladimir Gusinsky. He is rather surprisingly in his house near Malaga in Spain. I find it bizarre that the Spanish police are fulfilling a request made by the former KGB in this way. The war on dissent continues on the part of Mr Putin. He seems not to have a sense of humour. He does not like to see himself portrayed on the television by a glove puppet with jokes being made at his expense. It seems that it is not appropriate for the President of Russia to be lampooned in this way and so he will not tolerate it. It is a most unpleasant feud made all the more unpleasant by the fact that one side is enjoying the support of the President of Russia. This is not satisfactory and I hope it will be dealt with during Mr Patten's visit. Very briefly, the other points I would mention in respect of Russia are the situation in the Russian army, in particular in Chechnya, but also internally because the Russian army is notorious these days for the cruelty which it exerts and in particular the treatment of its young conscript soldiers. I have also watched with concern in the past year the tendency of the present leaders of Russia – many of whom are ex-KGB because they were appointed by a former colonel in the KGB – to be a little bit trigger-happy in the arrest of so-called British, American and Russian spies. This is really something that is quite unnecessary I would have thought in the post cold-war environment. So, with those reservations I congratulate the Commission and the President-in-Office and look forward to an improvement in human rights in the coming year. – Mr President, I supported the resolution on Kaliningrad by Mrs Hoff. We have to follow the example given by Mr Patten in his remarks yesterday and make a clear resolution in favour of cooperation with Russia and on the question of Kaliningrad to fit in with the wishes of the people of that small territory. Mr Putin is a friend of ours, and we should encourage him. He has brought economic growth to Russia at a time of very great danger in the economic system of that country. He has sorted out the taxation system, which makes the very valid point that reducing rates of tax very often results in an increase in revenue. Chechnya is his black mark – we must be critical of the Russian government here. Mr Putin is sensitive to criticism, and a word of caution should go out from this European Parliament and be carefully noted by colleagues, even if they are not present in this Chamber at the moment. – Mr President, it is a very great joy that we have at last a report from the Council of Ministers on human rights. I can remember making this request in December 1979 when the Russian troops were getting together to invade Afghanistan. For some reason, over these past twenty years the Council of Ministers or the ministers meeting in political cooperation have been unwilling to put together a document. Now at least we have a document, although I have to say that it is rather thin soup. The careful balance the Commissioner mentioned needs to be made very carefully, but we need facts and details on how the human rights situation throughout the world is being handled. I trust that this first document will be just one step along the way towards bringing us together and helping us to tackle human rights. It has been an abominable year after all. We have had war, murder, genocide, racism, xenophobia, and I wish we could have had something a little bit more powerful in this document, which was, I have to say, distributed very quickly. It found itself in our pigeon-holes today and it was there for debate with the human rights forum which the President referred to. These things are in need of quick action. At the human rights forum this morning I spoke to one of the President-in-Office’s Finnish colleagues from the Finnish Foreign Ministry, about a particular case mentioned by the European Parliament recently, the case of Alexander Nikitin, a man who is on trial just a few miles away from Helsinki, for high treason. He is facing the death penalty because he reported on the ecological disaster of nuclear submarines in the Murmansk area. I take it this matter is of interest to the Finnish Government, but even though I raised this question with a member of the Finnish Foreign Office, we still do not have any information and the man is on trial today, and tomorrow. I imagine it is familiar to those who are sitting with the Council of Ministers. I hope someone can tell us something about it. Mr President, this is, I suppose, the parliament in Europe that takes human rights the most seriously, and we have great possibilities in dealing with countries that violate human rights. I believe that we have to look much more carefully at this question, to tackle those countries that behave disgracefully; the so-called fingernail-pulling governments need to be taken to task, and the European Parliament must be the institution that takes the lead in making sure that human rights are top of our agenda. . – I am of course in favour of direct universal elections to our Parliament and I congratulate the rapporteur on the hard work he has put in to increase the authority and credibility of our Assembly. There is, however, one fatal flaw in this Parliament's approach to the whole question of universal suffrage. The problem is that the five European Parliament elections that have so far taken place since 1979 have not included one particular part of the European Union. I have in mind the 15,000 voters of Gibraltar. Member States' exclusion of this small territory from the right to vote reflects no credit on them. And I have in mind successive British governments as well as others. This report leaves open the question of the Gibraltarian vote. Although some progress has been made on this matter since the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in 1999, the matter is still unresolved. No Council decision on European Parliament voting can be complete without recognition of the Gibraltarians' rights. That is why I shall be voting against this report. – The rapporteur for Bulgaria, Mr Geoffrey Van Orden, has asked me to speak on his behalf since he has to attend the defence debate at the Conservative Party Conference in Bournemouth, England, today. Bulgaria has made great progress in her preparations for accession. The current resolution and report focus on certain of the more controversial issues, namely nuclear safety, border controls, the treatment of minorities and the question of corruption. Economic issues will be dealt with later. Bulgaria is anxious to join the European Union and NATO. It has already demonstrated its commitment to regional security and stability through practical and political action, as was evidenced during the Kosovo conflict when Bulgaria sided with NATO allies, possibly to the detriment of her own short term interest. The after-effects of the conflict, particularly the obstruction of the Danube, damaged the Bulgarian economy and it is only right that urgent assistance should be given by the international community. But Bulgaria has made a wider contribution to regional security through the mechanisms of the Stability Pact. Turning to another aspect of security, Bulgaria has also made great strides in tackling border control, with the ambitious target of bringing border policing up to Schengen standards by 2001. This has been achieved by a fundamental reorganisation of the border police, once a demotivated conscript force; it is now a professional volunteer service. Much of this has been carried out with assistance from the European Union. The security of Bulgaria's borders and the effectiveness and integrity of its policing is of vital interest to the Union, bearing in mind Bulgaria's situation on the main through-route into Western Europe from Asia Minor and the Middle East. Within its borders Bulgaria is addressing the problem of minorities. The Bulgarian Government has made efforts to overcome the problems of exclusion of the large Roma community, comprising roughly 4% of the population. Much more needs to be done. It will take time for the benefits of the fundamental changes in Bulgaria to be felt by the population as a whole. Meanwhile, in a more open society with greater opportunity, people need to be assured that those in power, whether in government or in administration, are exercising their authority for the benefit of the country as a whole. Democracy and the market economy are vibrant forces in Bulgaria, but they are still young and need to be sustained by the confidence and trust of the whole population. The suspicion of corruption is a most destructive force and it must be tackled as a matter of urgency. This is nowhere more true than in the case of nuclear power, where legitimate concerns over nuclear and environmental safety are in danger of being hijacked by the anti-nuclear power lobby. In recent weeks we have all been reminded of the perils of over-dependence on oil and the need for diversity in energy provision. The Kozloduy nuclear power plant accounts for half the internal power generation in Bulgaria. Safety considerations must of course remain paramount but other factors must also be taken into account in determining the country's most suitable long-term energy strategy. I wish to emphasise how important it is that Bulgaria should be assessed in its own right in terms of its progress towards early membership of the European Union. If Europe is to embrace this historic opportunity for enlargement, removing the divisions created by the Soviet occupation and the communist experiment, candidate countries must be given a chance to accede within a reasonable timeframe. This applies to Bulgaria. Finally, I would like to mention a dark cloud that hangs over Europe and here I speak personally. 23 years ago Bulgarian secret agents went on a murderous rampage in Western Europe, attacking certain individuals, including my friend Georgi Markov, the well known writer and broadcaster, who was murdered in broad daylight in a London street. Former Soviet agents have admitted their part in this dastardly crime but documents have been found incriminating Bulgarian citizens as well – Bulgarian agents of the communist government. No progress has been made in solving the crime. Successive presidents promised to take action but nothing was done. I will not myself be able to vote for this report unless progress is made in solving the murder of Georgi Markov. – Madam President, on a point of order. I draw your attention to the fact that alarming events have been taking place in Moscow in the past 24 hours, mainly aimed at the independent media and the freedom of the press.  runs the independent television of Russia and its organisation has a number of radio stations and independent magazines. Mr Andrey Tsimaylo, the deputy chairman of  was yesterday arrested and subjected to five hours of interrogation, following which Mr Anton Titov, the financial director of independent television, was arrested at the home of his mother, the door having been broken in by the security police. A number of other junior employees of independent television are being arrested and interrogated as we sit here now. This is an alarming development and it goes beyond the personal question of Mr Gusinsky, which I have raised before and, as is well known, I am an adviser to him. Madam President, could we take this matter into consideration? You met the deputy chairman of  in June, Mr Malashenko. You spoke to him about this problem of government pressure on freedom of the press and you suggested that something should be done. Can we try to find some way of conveying our views to the Russian Government and sorting out this question of freedom of the press and expression which bedevils relations between the Russian Federation and the European Union? – Madam President, since a colleague has mentioned the name of Gibraltar could I remind the House that Sunday, 10 September is the national day in Gibraltar and some of us will be there. But I am surprised that the House is not debating Burma on this day. Yesterday, the ministers of the 15 imposed sanctions on Burma, and there has been a siege of the elected leader of Burma, Aung San Suu Kyi, and an outburst of violence around her home. The British Ambassador was beaten up this morning, and the European Parliament should take strong action towards Burma, just as the ministers are doing. – I understand, Madam President, that there was one speaker in favour of the suggestion, and another speaker, who has just resumed her seat, putting forward the idea that there should be a debate on this matter at the end of this month in the second October part-session. Are you going to put both propositions to the vote? – Mr President, I would like to inform the House, under Rule 111, that last Thursday, the offices of the Moss Media Group in Moscow comprising independent television and a number of newspapers and magazines were raided by so-called tax police, uniformed and armed. Documents were taken away, the telephones were cut off and threats of legal action remain. Mr President, this matter is one of the utmost importance. It involves freedom of the press in Russia and further outrages are expected over the next two or three days. Mr Robin Cook is in Moscow today. He will discuss the matter with Mr Ivanov, the Russian Foreign Minister, and the 15 Ministers are thinking of a joint démarche. But we in the European Parliament – what are we doing? Nothing. The matter is, if you like, too urgent to take on board because it happened last Thursday and cannot be brought forward as an urgency. Could you please refer this question to the Conference of Presidents so that some system can be found to deal with very urgent and important matters such as this one? – Madam President, some of us expected an announcement from the chair yesterday about the Sakharov Prize – to whom it had been awarded, what the voting figures were and when it would be presented in plenary. Could you give us some information about that, either today or as soon as possible? – Madam President, I gave you a note indicating that I intended to raise the question of the visits to France and the United Kingdom by the President of China, and the effect of this on the violations of human rights in China, and the arrests and heavy-handed behaviour by police in France and the United Kingdom. There have been very serious violations of human rights in China and this should be taken into account. I hope that you, Madam President, will not consider inviting the President of China to this Parliament because that would indeed be a disgrace. It is not so bad for him to be invited by the Queen or by President Chirac but please, not here. – Mr President, on a point of order. This has great relevance to the matter we are discussing since it touches on the freedom of the press and the independent ownership of the media in Russia. A few hours ago the owner of most of Russia's independent television, Mr Vladimir Gusinsky, was arrested in Spain. I am told he is due to be deported to Russia. I should like to protest at this most serious development and ask that investigations be made. Mr Gusinsky is presently in an aircraft on his way to Madrid where he faces deportation to Russia for criticising the Russian Government in his media activities. – Mr President, you mentioned that I had signed that motion on behalf of the Liberal Group. I want to make it absolutely clear that this is a mistake, or if it is not a mistake, it is some mischievous prank by the dirty tricks department of the Liberal Party.  I was born a Conservative and I trust that I will die a Conservative. – Madam President, there is a political dimension to this, which Mr Haarder mentioned. I had in mind the arrest of Mr Zakayev, the Chechen representative. Why has he been in prison for so long without any evidence being brought against him? This is a very worrying situation. – Mr President, this is a debate which is bedevilled with hypocrisy. We see products on sale claiming to be free from animal testing when the manufacturers know perfectly well that the products may not have been tested on animals, but that the ingredients were. We see countries like my own, claiming to have banned animal testing, when all they have done is export the problem to countries where animals are even less respected. What we need and what this report brings us towards is a ban on the marketing of products tested on animals. Of course, what we need is to ensure that safety is our key criterion. Human health must not be put at risk by what we are doing. We must bear in mind the range of products that we are talking about – it is not just the cosmetics that we put on our faces; it is also the toothpastes, the sunscreens, the baby products, the lens cleansers and so on. Our aim must be a realistic timetable to phase out products which have been tested on animals by setting a deadline for each of those tests. We have to reconcile the interests of human health and those of animal welfare, and it can be done. Our amendments would ban with immediate effect those tests for which alternatives have been validated. It would set a deadline for each of the others, according to the stage reached in the process of validating an alternative, up to a maximum of five years. It would acknowledge that for the three tests for which there are as yet no alternatives there would be a maximum of ten years in which to find alternatives, after which those tests would stop too. We are tired of waiting on this issue. We have waited five years; we have waited 1,825 days since this measure should have been brought in. In that time, we have seen 190,000 animals suffer and be destroyed. We want to bring that to an end. We need safe cosmetic products. We need human health to be ensured and we need animal testing to be stopped. It is time to bring this issue to a conclusion. – Madam President, Israel and Palestine are two independent nations but they are not yet two independent states. They are two peoples who must coexist as neighbours or offer their grandchildren the prospect of eternal feuding. Sadly, there is provocation by people who should be showing leadership. Provocation leads to violence, which is met by violence, which leads to revenge and a slippery slope away from a just and peaceful . Much of the solution is in Israel's hands, but Palestine and the neighbouring states must respond. Of course I understand Israel's nervousness about taking the first steps. Lebanon, for example, has been in an impossible situation for years: it has been shelled by Israel and infiltrated by Syria, and both must help it now to provide stability in its own lands. Israeli withdrawal was met responsibly by the Lebanese. However, Israel still holds pockets of Lebanese territory in the south and has not yet provided maps of where the landmines are so that they can be cleared and, as a result, nine shepherds have been killed since the withdrawal. Prisoners on both sides still have to be returned and the Shebaa farms on the Golan border belonging to Lebanon are still held, controlled and occupied by Israel. The key area of provocation has been covered by the minister and by the Commissioner, including the issue of the sale in the EU of goods labelled as Israeli but coming from the settlements. There are 145 settlements in the West Bank, 16 in Gaza, 9 in East Jerusalem; 400,000 people live in them. Only 42% of West Bank territory is controlled by the Palestinians, 58% is either in military camps or settlements and too often the military camps lead to the settlements. Peace will not come from resolutions adopted here – although we can help. Peace will come if, and only when, Israel, Palestine and the neighbouring states realise they want peace so much that they are prepared to live it. – Mr President, this is a small but significant measure to extend the duties of Member States to carry out strategic environmental assessments on the planning framework as well as on the actual plans where the implementation would or could have a significant impact on the environment. All Member States voted for the common position, but some made it clear that they would go very little further than that. Our task is to clarify and to amend responsibly and on behalf of the PPE-DE Group I congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Schörling, on the work she has done and the consultation she has had with us. We will however be rejecting some of her amendments, notably those that seek to extend the system to all financial plans, to defence and civil defence, to consultation beyond what is reasonable and to the general policies she has just mentioned, which become more of a wish-list than firm proposals. However, we agree that it makes no sense to exclude projects financed wholly or partially by the European Union, especially structural funds, and we certainly agree that it makes sense to talk to neighbouring states outside the European Union. We agree that there should be adequate reporting back, not only on the environmental risks identified by the assessment, but on the action it is proposed to take to mitigate or remove them. We also of course have to consider Amendment No 26, in the name of some of our German colleagues, which rejects the common position. I understand the concerns of colleagues from Germany and some parts of Italy. These result from the way in which some governments and regional governments have chosen to implement the assessments. These governments are giving environmental assessment and Europe a bad name for what are entirely excesses of their own making and they need to look carefully at their domestic policies. But this is a subsidiarity measure which leaves the details to Member States. It is not the big hand of Europe extending control to local planning matters. It does, however, ensure that particularly at our respective borders our planning takes account of the environment quality within and across our borders when planning frameworks are being agreed. We believe that to be a good thing and my PPE-DE Group will therefore not be supporting Amendment No 26 and will vote for the common position. We shall then vote for the amendments we supported in committee and for one further clarifying amendment which has been submitted since, but we shall oppose the amendments which we believe are a step too far in terms of what is desirable, practical and acceptable. – Mr President, I congratulate my friend and colleague Mr Arvidsson on attempting to make sense of this draft directive. Of course, if young children are at risk then it is right to take action to remove that risk. The question on PVC softeners in young children's chewing toys is: Who says there is definitely a risk? The answer is no-one. Who says there could remotely be a risk? The answer is Mr Suresh Rastogi, a Danish researcher who used the phthalates he happened to have in his laboratory. His research has never been confirmed by peer review – indeed it was rejected by the Commission's own scientific committee, the CSTEE. Of the six named phthalates to be banned as a result, two are used for flooring and cosmetics but not for children's toys, one is not used at all, one is not made at all, one is not used because of fears it might be carcinogenic (though on 8 February it was totally cleared by the WHO) and that leaves one, DINP that is used to soften PVC in chewing rings and so on. So, what does the CSTEE say about this? It said that there was no identifiable risk that could lead to a justified ban, that they were safe if they were used according to existing rules. The CSTEE met and decided on 25 November. On 22 November, three days earlier, the Commission had imposed a temporary ban, and we have to ask the Commission why. It is only justified under the general product safety directive if there is 'immediate and serious risk'. If that cannot be shown clearly, then the legality of the temporary ban can and should be questioned in this case. Indeed, the case was to be brought to court but was put on hold when the Commission agreed to work to produce validation systems for the test methods by the end of this year; so we can test these and test the alternatives. Why is the Commission rushing forward now? Why are the CSTEE minutes not published until April, and why has a statement critical of the Commission's misunderstanding or misinterpretation of the research still not been published? Crying wolf damages the credibility of the precautionary principle. I ask the Commission to answer these questions today, and to get its internal scaremongers under control. Like the Commissioner I think surveillance of these diseases is fundamentally important and that is why I am concerned that there should not be a gap. As rapporteur for the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, I know we are not going to have this up and running before 2005 at the most optimistic estimate, so it is the gap between now and then that I am concerned about. Of course, the centre will not deal with cancer as it is not a communicable disease. It will deal with the other two mentioned. I know the Commissioner has been looking for solutions to cancer, because he has discussed that with our committee in the past. Nevertheless, I ask him to look very carefully at the organisations who have been doing the surveillance – particularly on tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS – and see how they can be supported over the coming two years. We are faced with a double problem in this area: one, as the Commissioner mentioned, is the exponential rise in cases in Eastern Europe, and the second is the fearsome rise we are now seeing, here and across the Atlantic, in a number of newly-diagnosed cases which are multi-drug resistant. Potentially, there is thus a dual crisis attacking us from both sides. Mr President, today in Europe and every part of the civilised world it is Thursday, but in Turkmenistan ironically it is 'the day of justice'. Well, there is nothing just about life in Turkmenistan, but justice for the Turkmen people is what this debate is all about. President Niyazov renamed himself. He renamed the days of the week. He named the months of the year after his national heroes, starting with himself and his mother. He has built lavish palaces; he has erected statues of himself while his people remain impoverished. From 1985 he has ruled as a tyrant. Since 1999 he has been president for life. In November last year the worst repression of all followed an attack on him. Turkmenistan has become a land of torture and imprisonment, of death in custody, of intolerance towards political and religious views. The press is muzzled, human rights organisations are barred and opposition is driven abroad. Our resolution lists names, and we demand the release of those names, the end of ill-treatment in those cases where they are actually still alive, and access to them for the Red Cross. But they are the tip of an iceberg that needs to be exposed. I trust that the Commission will do just that. Our delegation on Central Asia covers all the countries of Central Asia and Mongolia. Last May we were in Uzbekistan, the beautiful and historic country of Tamburlaine. We were made welcome and we saw some improvements in human rights and a willingness to open doors. But two days after we left Mr Ruslan Sharipov was arrested. Ruslan Sharipov is a journalist who wrote about police and government corruption. He was arrested on charges of homosexual conduct, criminalised in that country under Article 120 of the criminal code, in contradiction with the provisions of the ICCPR ratified by Uzbekistan. On 28 August masked men kidnapped and severely beat his public defender, Surat Ikramov. In September Mr Sharipov got out by letter allegations of his ill-treatment and of how he was threatened in prison by police and prison officers. In September the charge was reduced, but only reduced. He should never have been charged. He should be released now, and I ask the Commission to intervene in this case. While we were in Uzbekistan, we also met the British Ambassador, Craig Murray. He is a fearless diplomat who told us the truth as he saw it. Perhaps he was unwise to do so, but he was right to do so. At a meeting in Tashkent on 17 October he said: 'I believe that people are born with an instinct for liberty and that freedom and democracy come naturally to people everywhere once they are given the chance'. Well, the British Government did not endorse or commend him. It summoned him home for treatment. I ask the Commission to issue a diplomatic 'habeus corpus' challenge to the British Foreign Secretary: restore a good man to his post and the gainers will be the Uzbek people and their leaders, but also the good name of British diplomacy. – Mr President, many tragedies there are in the world but none more moving than those that affect children. There are none worse than the ones we have heard about today involving trades in children. I want to refer to one of those trades and that is the trade that takes place in adoption. In the United Kingdom, in the 1960s, we had some 25,000 adoptions, with 12,500 under one-year-olds. In the 1970s that figure had fallen to 13,000 and the under one-year-olds to 3,000. By the 1990s that had dropped again to 7,000 with only 900 under one-year-olds. Much of the differences stem of course from the wider and freer availability of abortion. In Britain the figure is one in five pregnancies, in London it is one in three. More children who are available for adoption have disabilities – mental or physical or behavioural problems – and so couples, not surprisingly, look further afield for babies to adopt. And further afield, indeed, there are babies available for adoption. The first duty for all of us should be to the child. For any child that needs a family, the preference is for its own family and if that is not available then a family in its own community. If that is not available then a family, perhaps with a different background, within its own country. If that is not available, then, and only then, should one start looking for a home abroad. But it must be a properly vetted and loving home and the couple taking on the responsibility for that child must show an understanding of the child's background. Too often we have seen abuses in the system which puts couples' wishes before the child's interests. So we have seen rackets developing in baby-selling, mothers having their babies stolen, mothers being bribed to part with their children, mothers being conned that the child is going to benefit from a good start in life and return to the family when, of course, there is no such intention. That is why we have the Hague Convention on Inter-Country Adoption. That is why I ask the Commission to make sure that Hague Convention is properly implemented throughout the European Union nations. I ask for a report to be brought forward to show the state of law in each member country and the state of legal practice. On this, the tenth anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, we must stand up for those children, for their rights to be children. That means supporting children in need because of illness, or disability or hunger or poverty or lack of educational opportunities. It means an end to child labour and exploitation and the awful trades in children. So much of that is caused by the cruelty or neglect of adults and the least adults can do is to ensure that when a child genuinely has no family we apply the provisions of the Inter-Country Convention when giving that child another chance in life through adoption. – Mr President, Mr Nisticò said there was an oral amendment to Amendment No 43, which is one of the ones you are trying to take . . – Mr President, I would propose an oral amendment of one word in Amendment No 11. The words "close ties" have a sinister undertone to some, and so I propose to change that to "close contacts" on the understanding I have with the Liberal Group that it will then withdraw its amendment. Mr President, on behalf of the British Members of this House, may I thank the President of Parliament, through you, for his words of sympathy, and extend the sympathy of my colleagues and of colleagues across all parties from my country in this House at what has happened in Istanbul. We believe there are some 107 casualties; it is known that there are 7 dead so far and 4 British diplomats are missing. This is an atrocity that will appal the whole House and the European Union. We express sympathy, of course, to all those affected, whether they are British, Turkish or other citizens of Europe. I thank the President of Parliament for his sympathy. .  Mr President, today the world's gaze is very much on world trade. However, for millions that is a million miles from their broken, infected and disabled lives, because you can only trade if you can make, grow, sell and distribute. Those tasks are essential to your economic wellbeing and to your country's economic growth. They are tasks which are way beyond you if you are physically or mentally ill or disabled. If they are beyond you, you are in a downward spiral to poverty and, more often than not, to death. Health and wealth, ill-health and poverty are inextricably entwined. Poverty leads to ill-health and ill-health means poverty for nations, families and individuals. Without health you cannot create wealth and without wealth you cannot prevent and cure disease. We, the countries of the European Union, have accepted the challenge to help the least- and the less-developed countries to overcome poverty and to become partners with us in world trade and development. We have acknowledged the fundamental link between good health and the reduction in poverty and we now need to enhance this priority in our development policies. The Commission has sent us a good communication, which I welcome. It focuses on the three massive challenges of TB, AIDS and malaria and nothing in my report contradicts that focus. Indeed, I call for more and better investment in these areas. However, there are other enormous health challenges we must also address. Let me start with the final point in our report. We, the developed world, are short of doctors. Each and every year we make up our domestic failure by recruiting 63 000 doctors from the developing countries. In return, we send them just 1 300. This is unacceptable. Then let me re-emphasise the need for a shift in resources to basic health, if our rhetoric is to be translated into effective action. Just 3.4% of our current development budgets go to health. That is simply inadequate. Only 9 of the first 61 country strategy papers had health as a focal area for cooperation. That will not achieve results. We need resources, but they must be efficiently targeted. Drugs, for example, are wasted if not accompanied by adequate storage, distribution, monitoring and patient education. Nigeria is an example where dramatic improvement was possible in fatal childhood diseases once the programme developed a home-to-home strategy and changed the public perception about immunisation. Then there are the diseases and disorders beyond the three priorities of TB, AIDS and malaria. By 2020, 80% of the global burden of disease will be non-communicable diseases: cardiovascular, cancer, respiratory, diabetes, depression, epilepsy, etc. Diarrhoea diseases kill 1.5 million children a year. We heard in the last debate about water. Apart from malaria, water-borne diseases that debilitate and destroy include typhoid, dysentery, cholera, hepatitis, trachoma, fluorosis and Japanese encephalitis. Yet 1.1 billion people have no access to clean water and 2.4 billion are without hygienic sanitation. Yet the cost need not be prohibitive, and our report points to examples of inexpensive interventions and changes of local practice which can make a significant difference. I am grateful to colleagues from all parts of the House who suggested additions or amendments – most of which we were able to incorporate in committee – and a few which I have accepted and put my name on at this plenary stage. I would also like to thank the governments, academics, practitioners and NGOs – not least from the developing countries themselves – for their contributions. They confirmed many of the proposals I had drafted and suggested new areas for me to explore, such as vaccines, maternal health, biomass fuels and palliative care. I hope Parliament will endorse our report and that the Council and the Commission will see it as supportive as well as exhortative. None of us can be satisfied with our efforts to date to defeat poverty by promoting good health. We are all in development mode and our commitment must be to drive our policy forward and faster. It is in all our interests to make real and lasting progress. – Madam President, when we came in this morning there was a distinct smell of cigars in this Chamber. For a moment I thought that this was some new ingredient that was being demonstrated in the detergents which had been used to clean the Chamber overnight. I suspect it is more to do with compliance with the parliamentary clean air directive, as opposed to the parliamentary hot air directive which very often informs our debates. However, it is detergents we are discussing this morning and we should remember, as Mr Florenz reminded us, what that industry is made up of: in particular, in the specialist area – the non-domestic area – some two-thirds of that area is produced by small firms employing some 20 000 people throughout the European Union. That is why everyone is right to congratulate Mr Nobilia, our rapporteur, on the skilful way in which he has struck a balance between environmental concerns, consumer choice and information and the industry's interests, so as to come up with a proposal that we can unite behind here today. I congratulate him on the skill with which he has negotiated the eight compromise amendments that were passed in committee. These address a number of areas, including the complementary risk-assessments for surfactants that fail the ultimate biodegradability tests, so that a tiered approach can take into account exposure and risk. He was also right to tighten the Commission's wording regarding access to detailed ingredient lists for medical staff, ensuring not only access for medical professionals, but also confidentiality of data. He was right to bolster consumer access to information, ensuring that full lists of substances added to detergents are readily accessible to consumers. Then we had the compromise on phosphates. I am incorporating a number of our amendments, including my own. I am sure he was right that we should ask the Commission to examine the arguments and come back with a proposal within three years. The arguments deserve careful attention, but we must also be aware of the benefits of phosphates. We know from our Scandinavian colleagues that, provided there is good water and sewage treatment, phosphates can result in lower volumes of detergents being used and also lower water temperatures being necessary. I do not know, Madam President, whether you are one of the many who now use the tablet form in washing machines, but there has been a movement towards tablets containing phosphate, which can improve the efficiency of use. One should recall the research from both Sweden and the Netherlands. The Stockholm water authority found that with phosphate substitutes there were on average ten times more suspended solids in their effluent, leading to a substantial increase in sludge; whereas phosphate products were found to be less damaging in terms of eco-toxicity towards micro-organisms. Research by the Dutch Institute of Environmental Sciences showed that use of phosphate-free detergents resulted in no improvement in surface water quality and led to eutrification worse, in many cases, than that experienced when phosphate-based detergents are used. The reason for that is that the alternatives were found to be so toxic that they killed the vital zooplankton that feed on algae and phytoplankton in naturally balanced fresh water. We have here a sensible proposal. I do not accept the amendments tabled by the Green Group, which go too far, not least on the somewhat absurd eco-labelling proposals. This is a measure we could have taken through in one reading. I wish it well and again congratulate our rapporteur. – Mr President, my name does not seem to be on yesterday's attendance list although I did actually sign in. – Mr President, this directive deals with the comparatively small but growing problem of abandoned cars and the question of a more structured disposal of all cars at the end of their life. To that extent, it might be thought desirable, even if it is not a matter of urgent necessity. The key questions now are who pays the EUR 262 per car for the 9 million cars that are disposed of each year? Who pays for the collection, the dismantling, the disposal and so on? And should the directive be retrospective to cover every car that has ever been made? The proposal from the Council, the common position, is that manufacturers should pay the lot. That would mean billions of pounds or euros for each of the major companies in each of the countries of the European Union. That cost would inevitably be passed on to the price and hence to the buyers of new cars. Because European car manufactures have been operating here for many, many more decades than companies from Japan, Korea and elsewhere, that would be a much greater burden on the older European companies and a competitive gift to their competitors from elsewhere. I commend Mr Florenz, Mr Lange and others who have sought from both sides of the party divide a compromise based on shared costs. I also commend to you the amendment standing in my name and colleagues from Germany, Italy, Ireland, Spain, Sweden and Britain, to remove the retrospective nature of this measure. Retrospective law is bad law, it is unfair law and often it is unworkable law. Most democratic parliaments in the free world reject it on principle unless there is overwhelming public interest, which clearly there is not in this case. That is why I have called for a roll-call vote on this. We can see who is prepared to vote for a retrospection which is of doubtful legality, which would be a costly burden to every future car buyer and a devastating blow for the European car industry. – Mr President, I suspect that in my group as in most others there is a wide range of views, from people who think that smoking is a matter for consenting adults, largely but not necessarily in private, to those who think that sellers of tobacco should suffer capital punishment and that those who smoke should be incarcerated in secure hospitals. But all of us would agree that the primary purpose of this measure is to protect children and to deter them from a habit that may kill them. The best way is not to worry about maximum levels of content but to worry about minimum levels, so that the first taste for a child is so foul that they do not seek to repeat the experience. Certainly we should support the ban on the use of labels such as mild and light or anything that suggests that the product is safer. The truth is that people inhale more deeply to get the taste and so can actually damage themselves more. Such labels are deceptive and dangerous and should be banned. Otherwise labelling is of marginal and temporary impact, whatever the picture, whatever the words, and there is some danger of a cigarette card mentality emerging, with the different messages becoming collector's items. The export issue is probably the most difficult. It is one for balanced judgment: on the one hand, it is odd to say that what is not good for our citizens is okay to export to other countries; but on the other hand, it is presumptuous of us to say what standards other countries should adopt and on balance I come down in favour of the second approach. Lastly, we have the issue of subsidies for growing tobacco, paid by our taxpayers to people in our Europe. It is immoral and obscene that we allow subsidies for growing something that we know will kill and will cost us billions of euros in health care for smokers. Our governments must stop this and we must stop them supporting it. Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur on the work that has been done on this sensible and welcome proposal. We should bear in mind that it is a bathing waters directive, not a recreation directive, so we should not venture into the deeper waters of boating and deep sea diving: we should instead restore it to what it started off as – a bathing water directive. It is also right that we look at seasonal bathing and do not try to cover the whole year. We should look at places where bathing actually takes place and where that is so designated by a Member State. It is sensible to simplify the two key tests relating to public health – on gastro-enteritis and e-coli. It is important too that there be flexibility where temporary and atypical pollution takes place. That is an improvement that has come from the committee. We should also be careful to give proper attention to the cost/benefit analysis because some quite large sums of money are involved – the cost to my country would be EUR 8.8 billion, albeit over 25 years. We should bear in mind that public information is important if we are going to have public confidence, and the blue flag has gained that confidence: we should be careful not to damage it. I am pleased we have not gone for the multicoloured flags. I gather that we are now going to consult on smiling faces: if we end up with the happy, smiling face of Mrs Wällstrom looking down on Brighton beach, I am sure that will be a boon to mankind, but it must stand alongside the blue flag. Lastly, the question of radioactivity is perhaps not one for this measure, as one of the amendments suggests. There are, after all, rocks with natural radioactivity close to beaches and we do not want everyone to have to go swimming with a Geiger counter in their swimming trunks, or indeed swimming trunks that turn black if they meet any radioactivity! – Mr President, in welcoming the Commissioner's commitment to working with the UN agencies, can I ask him if he agrees with Kofi Annan that there can be no economic health without physical and mental health, and will he work with the agencies, particularly WHO and UNICEF, to achieve that. We have heard a lot today and we will rightly hear a lot more about one of the biggest challenges, Aids: two days ago, Kofi Annan was appealing to the world to play a bigger part in this. But there are other illnesses: TB, malaria, river blindness and the mental and neurological health area which this year was designated by the WHO as its key area. Will he bring forward to this Parliament plans to do more work in that area? Mental health is the fastest growing cause of disability. For example, there are more people with epilepsy than with Aids – 40 million people live with it, but only 8 million of those 40 million are treated for it. That is a disgrace to the world. We can do more. Will he commit this Parliament, this Union, and this Commission to do more as well. – Mr President, may I ask the President-in-Office a question of a different sort on air traffic control. I appreciate she may not have been briefed on this, so if she does not know the answer perhaps she would be kind enough to write to me in such a way that we can publish it for our colleagues. It concerns the issue of the regulation which is shortly to come in which will enable airline pilots between the ages of 60 and 65 to fly freight traffic throughout Europe, with one exception. The one exception is France. That means, because of the extent of French airspace, pilots over 60 will effectively be out of a job. Will she take that back to the Council of Ministers, raise it with her French colleagues in particular, and answer me, perhaps in writing later, unless she is able to do so today, about what can be done to ensure that these older pilots' jobs are made safe. .  Mr President, when I present reports to this Parliament I like to add by way of a signature a quotation and in this case I have used the Arabian proverb: 'He who has health has hope, and he who has hope has everything'. The statement and the debate we have just been listening to show the hopes and the fears of our constituents and their concern that we do better in this area in the future. In the case of avian flu, with the transmission from hens to ducks to pigs to humans – resulting in the deaths of 19 humans – mutation is a possibility. When we look back at the SARS experience and when we look around at the constant threat of bioterrorism, we see the need for this centre to coordinate better, as the Commissioner has said, and we see the need for urgency in bringing this measure forward. We are dealing with health emergencies that are within the competence of the European Union. We are also dealing with other health areas and starting, as the Commissioner has said, with communicable diseases, not least those with drug-resistant strains, which threaten our communities. This report provides for a later review in three years' time, which will look at the scope of the measure and the experience gained and see how best we can move forward in terms of other health monitoring. The centre does not resemble the American Central Direction Center, but is rather a network of networks. It is neither bureaucratic, nor is it costly. In due course, we may need to look at its costs to see if we are adequately funding it, but for now it is certainly not costly. It will work closely with national networks and no national network need feel threatened by this because they will fully be a part of it. It will also work with international agencies, particularly the WHO, which is so fundamental in these areas. In our discussions we have had two key issues before us. One was the scope, where we found a happy and acceptable solution, and the other was the board, where there was some controversy. I am one of those who has always argued for small boards for these authorities and agencies, as I did for the Food Safety Authority, but in this case there is a fundamental reason why we need to have every Member State represented on the board and that is because every Member State may be asked to contribute to the work of the centre. That is sensible. I am grateful also that we have been able to ensure that we have parliamentary representation on the board. It is urgent that this set-up should be in place by 2005 and for that reason we have to do this in a single reading, given the complexities of the parliamentary year ahead. It has been a complex process of consultation with colleagues and with the Council that has led to a complex set of mainly technical and linguistic amendments. We now have two blocks of amendments; the first are those that I commend to this House, and the second those that are superseded by the first. There are then two further amendments tabled by the ELDR Group and I have to say to the House that, whatever one thinks of those amendments, were they to be accepted it would jeopardise the possibility of having this measure brought forward by 2005. I therefore have to ask the House to reject those two amendments. This report has only been possible because of the collaboration with my colleagues in my Group and across the groups, and I am deeply grateful to them, to the shadow rapporteurs, to the Group, the committee and the parliamentary secretariats. Our discussions and debates have also played a role, including those with the Commission and the Council, which have often been forceful, yet always positive. I am grateful both to the former Italian presidency and the current Irish presidency for the work we have been able to do together. This proposal will enhance our Community and national ability to look after public health throughout the European Union. It will enable us to work with other countries beyond the European Union to prevent, control and defeat the health threats that we face today. I commend this measure to the House. – Madam President, 50 years on we have been celebrating over the last few years the end of the war, the founding of the United Nations, the founding of the World Health Organisation, the return of independence to the Baltic Nations from the Soviet Empire, but sadly also 50 years on we have to commemorate China's illegal occupation of Tibet: fifty years of suppression and oppression of the Tibetan people by the Chinese regime. That must never be allowed to become a fait accomplihence the amendment to this resolution to put pressure on China, which I warmly support. Hence, also, the overall resolution to demand of the World Bank that it withdraw its support for our so-called project which would mean the movement of some 60,000 Chinese into an area currently populated by 4,000 Tibetans making a living with their herds, and the exploitation of Tibet's natural resources. Both actions are immoral, both are against international law, both demand action by this Parliament and this Union on behalf of Tibet and its people. – Mr President, it is appropriate, I suppose, that this measure has reached this plenary in World Health Week, with its particular emphasis on mental health. The week before last, in Parliament, we were launching the epilepsy White Paper. Some 15 million of our fellow Europeans will be afflicted by that illness during their lifetime at a cost of some EUR 20 billion per year, plus the cost to the individual and families of lost income and the cost to Member States of lost tax revenues. Multiply that by all the diseases and disorders, physical and mental, add the impact of ending the communist system in Eastern Europe and the two-way cross-border movement of health problems, from environmental pollution to sexual and drug-related diseases, and the economic impact of health problems is colossal. The European Union has no competence for health services, but it has always had competence for health and safety at work, and then for public health and infectious diseases which have no respect for national borders. More recently it has been given competence for health promotion and illness prevention and health impact assessments. Now we have to take this forward with the reforms of our health action programme that this report suggests. I commend this report, the work of the rapporteur and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy's additions to his work. We shall raise standards of health in the European Union, not by directives, but by research, education and the identification and dissemination of good practice. It will not cost the tax-payers an arm and a leg: just EUR 83 million per year, if our committee position is accepted – a tiny sum for a massive challenge. We are told that the Council will not accept EUR 83 million per year for six years, but EUR 63 million per year is what was being spent under the old programme. If you just add some 5% per year for six years, that would mean EUR 83 million. If you take the Commission proposal of EUR 50 million and reduce it by the same amount then you would be cutting health budgets to EUR 37 million in real terms when we are taking on these new responsibilities. If they do, let it be on their consciences that they voted against EUR 20 million per year for health, while endorsing an annual budget of over EUR 1 000 million for subsidising the growing of tobacco. – Mr President, when Pandora opened her box all the ills of mankind were released. Sometimes, in health terms, that is how it must have felt when the borders opened after the Iron Curtain was ripped apart. We had a two-way traffic of bad habits, many of them linked to health. Bad habits of course move fast and good practice moves more slowly afterwards. Many of those bad habits were linked to health – infectious diseases, some drug-resistant and some we thought we had seen the last of. And there was drug abuse, the horrors of Aids and syphilis and the problems of tobacco and alcoholism. That would happen with or without enlargement. You cannot erect some new curtain, some cordon sanitaire, to protect west from east and east from west. Enlargement or no, it is in our mutual and collective interest that such problems are dealt with. It is my belief that enlargement can help that process. Since the 1950s in Europe we have introduced standards on health and safety and over the years we have extended competences and standards from public health to health promotion, tobacco to blood safety, rights from mobility of doctors and patients to human rights and laws such as those for mental health. Pharmaceutical companies have been regulated, medicines for people and animals licensed, and a range of measures taken in research, dissemination of good practice, education and training. We are building a compendium of directives and regulations on matters wholly germane to health, such as pollution, emissions of radioactive and other dangerous substances, waste disposal, water, air, soil quality, food safety and novel foods and product liability. Now we are moving to a requirement for health impact assessments for all major legislation. It is a long list and one that is often more honoured in the breach than in the observance by Member States. There is a message for EU governments and indeed for the Commission: for governments on compliance and the Commission on enforcement. More importantly there is a message for all of us who are interested in enlargement: we need to use all the channels available to us to support progress among the accession countries. That is why my report devotes a lot of its recommendations to the need to encourage the Phare programme to do more in the health field and to bring the countries into partnership now in the health action programmes and other areas. This includes bringing the European Investment Bank into the partnership. – Mr President, Algeria has been a troubled country for many years. Its reputation and image abroad has been damaged by the violence, massacres and abuses of human rights there, but that is nothing compared with the pain and suffering of its people at home. One million people died in the fight for independence and another 100 000 have died in the current power struggles between Islamic militants and the military and among the minority Berber community seeking political and cultural recognition. Now in this country, four fifths of which – ironically – is Saharan desert, we have the catastrophe of flooding in Algiers with the death toll in flash floods rising towards 1 000 as the grim task of sifting through the mud and the rubble goes on. It is not the first such calamity. In 1994, 30 000 people were made homeless in the Tindouf area, but the difference is that on that occasion seven lives were lost, while this time 693 people have already died and over 300 people are missing, with some 20 000 people thought to be homeless. The urgency now is for the European Union to play its part in providing humanitarian aid. There is a clear need for shelter, for food, for medical supplies and I certainly welcome the EUR 750 000 which has been given for this purpose under the ECHO fund, and indeed the promised EUR 225 million from the European Investment Bank for drinking water supply lines. There is also a need for adequate heavy equipment to deal with situations like this and even picks and shovels seem to be in short supply. Certainly no sniffer dogs appear to be available. Given Algeria's position in an earthquake area it would certainly be prudent to have such things available for the future. I would like to hear from the Commission what proposals it has to deal with this. There is also the need to look at the policy of sealing the floodwater drains against terrorist activities, which in this case has clearly exacerbated the situation. Mr President, I join in the general congratulations of Mrs Ferreira on reaching what is a sensible and welcome compromise on this revision of the directive. I certainly support her final tweaks of the text in the three amendments that she has put forward. However, I have to say to Mrs Schörling that I cannot accept Mr Lannoye's fourth amendment. It is unrealistic and it is one that he tried at first reading. When I criticised it at that point, his response was that 'it showed that knowledge can develop and that development sometimes leads us to question the authorisations that were given previously'. Well, many regulatory bodies across the world have evaluated aspartame and none have come forward with evidence that suggests that knowledge has developed in such a way as to doubt previous authorisations. So, are we to keep on re-evaluating the evidence until we get the result that Mr Lannoye wants? Where are the wide criticisms of the SCF opinion? Have any Member State competent bodies contradicted it? Has the World Health Organisation contradicted it? Who are we to believe – a large number of national regulatory bodies, legally responsible and accountable for examining evidence objectively on the basis of science or, for example, the Internet campaign that we have seen only this week suggesting that the tragic ferry accident at Staten Island in New York was somehow due to aspartame? Scaremongering of this sort can only undermine public confidence in the bodies set up to protect our food and our health. With such widespread consensus from regulatory bodies, it seems wasteful to divert the overstretched EFSA from meaningful work into an endless cycle of re-evaluation. There are safety considerations with the use of aspartame. If you look at the UK Food Standard Agency guidance it says that there is a small group of people who cannot safely consume aspartame. They are the sufferers of the inherited disease PKU, who are unable to metabolise the amino acid phenylaline. Since aspartame was also a source of this, all food products containing aspartame are clearly labelled to that effect, as the Commissioner said. That is the right way to tackle this issue. It is time that we restored some perspective to this and stopped undermining the work of our regulatory bodies. It is time to listen to the scientists and not the scaremongers. I commend Mrs Ferreira's report as it stands, with the Commissioner's proposals. I hope that is now acceptable to Parliament. Mr President, I wholeheartedly welcome the Commissioner's last statement, which is absolutely right. There is no place for caged beds or anything like them in a modern psychiatric service. I was astonished by his opening political statement. If he does not know, I can tell him that there are no caged beds in any existing Member State. There are no caged beds in any other accession country apart from these four. They are a legacy of the Austro-Hungarian Empire and so the only other country that could have had them in the past was Austria, and that is no longer the case. I recently spoke at a conference in the senate in Prague when this issue was being debated. One of the speakers was a young man called Michael, a 29-year-old who had been put in one of these caged beds for a week, unable to get out. Not surprisingly his health suffered. They are caged in the sense of there being iron bars or nets. There are safety consequences, because people have died in these beds. As the Commissioner said, it is a human rights issue. That is why it is an accession issue. That is why, when we looked at Slovenia, we incorporated a question about their new mental health legislation in our report of two years ago. That is why I very much welcome the pressure that the Commissioner is putting on these countries. Hungary has already responded; Slovenia is now responding; the Czech Republic not yet; and for Slovakia we wait to see. – Can I say firstly that I was astonished by the Minister's response to my honourable friend on the subject of human rights in Egypt. If Europe does not stand for human rights then I do not know what it does stand for. I would like to test him, if I may, on Tibet because Tibet has now been illegally occupied by China for many years. Does the Minister agree that no matter how many years before Tibet regains its freedom, no European state should recognise the illegal actions by the Chinese Government in Tibet and that the transfer of tens of thousands of non-Tibetan people into Amdo is illegal under international law? The World Bank has now recognised this and I understand is abandoning its so-called Western Poverty Project proposal. The British Government has not yet withdrawn its support and all I ask the President-in-Office to do is to remind all Member State governments on the Council – including Britain – that they must not endorse or be seen to endorse illegal acts and abuses of human rights and national rights against the people and the nation of Tibet. – Mr President, the key and emotive issue regarding this debate and this directive is how to protect the health of children and adults while ensuring the phasing out of animal testing within a reasonable timescale. As we know, cosmetics, like chemicals, pesticides and medicines, have to go through rigorous tests before they can be placed on the market for human use. A cosmetic manufacturer is legally obliged to ensure that its products are safe, both for normal use and for foreseeable misuse. The Scientific Committee on Cosmetics sets guidelines on the sort of tests that should be carried out and these include animal tests. The key is to get the test and any alternatives to existing tests into Annex 5 of the dangerous substances directive. When we seek, as we do, an end to animal tests, we have to take account of human interests too. It would be horrendous if a child were to suffer or even die because an inadequately tested product was allowed on the market; and we have to remember that items such as toothpaste and medicated shampoos are classified as cosmetics. The industry, to be fair, has made giant strides in reducing both the number of animal tests and the number of animals used in such tests. In some cases they have replaced the test; in some they have refined it to reduce suffering; and in some they have reduced the number of animals used. To achieve an alternative takes up to ten years. Agreeing a research project, funding it, undertaking it and then having it validated by ECVAM, endorsed by the Scientific Committee and incorporated into Annex 5 requires that sort of timescale. Looking at the Commission's proposal, we have to ask: is it effective, and is it realistic? I fear the answer to both questions is no. The Commission's proposal would ban animal testing within the EU, but that would simply send such testing to non-EU countries where standards of animal welfare may be much lower. The rapporteur has wrestled, as only Dagmar Roth-Behrendt can, to find an alternative; and if her alternative is to ban the marketing of any products that have been tested on animals, then that is fine; but on its own that could bring an end to research and improvements, including improvements to the health of children and adults, if no alternative is available. Doing nothing is not an alternative either because that would bring no pressure to bear on anyone to seek alternatives. We have to keep the pressure on. Of the twelve tests required for cosmetics, three have alternatives now, a fourth is in the pipeline, four more have been refined or reduced, four have no alternatives even on the horizon. We must set realistic marketing and test end dates for each. We must require alternatives to be used as soon as they are validated. We must distinguish between makeup and cosmetics that have a medicinal purpose. We must stop manufacturers and retailers claiming their products are not tested on animals when one or more of the ingredients have been so tested. And I fear we must ask the Commission to take its proposal away and start again. – Mr President, the Minister has given the right answer. The problem is that the second part of the answer should be to say what she is going to do to make sure that it is implemented. Would she agree that a sign of a civilised society is humane treatment of its animals? In Europe today we still see animals suffering agonies and animals dying in transit as a result of the inhumanity of transport conditions. Too many animals are transported in cramped conditions, without adequate food and water, without opportunities to turn round, to get out, to exercise on their journeys. Eight hours, as she has rightly said, should be the legal limit throughout the European Union for live animal transport. It should be the limit, under the directives; it is not in practice. I ask the President-in-Office of the Council to talk to the Council, talk to the Commission, and say why this is not yet being enforced. Animals are suffering and therefore Europe is not yet a civilised society in this regard. – Mr President, this is a debate about plant research and plant protection from research. It is a debate about the potential of GMOs for good and their potential for risk, and how you manage that risk. You cannot abolish risk because it is part of our natural environment. We cannot prevent all man-made risk because that would end scientific progress. But we must respond to public concern about the potential and unknown dangers to our environment, to our food chain and to our health. I believe there are four areas where we must act to reassure the public. I believe we can do so without destroying biotechnology. Firstly, antibiotic-resistant genes must be phased out. The amendment sets a realistic, but urgent date of 2005 for that. Secondly, we must be open with the public about where experimental crops are being grown. That is only right. It is fair. In return we must ask environmental action groups to show restraint and responsibility with regard to that knowledge. Thirdly, we must build on the Montreal Protocol as far as the export of GMOs is concerned, and this should be done on the basis of mutual agreement and transparency. Fourthly, as many Members have said, we must ensure liability; but it is a question of whether we need any greater liability than applies to other environmental risks. I suspect we do not, so long as we already have criminal, civil, product and environmental liability in law. That should suffice, but it is wise to add the provision on negligence as something which can be brought into play within the courts. We can gain real benefits from GMOs if we get it right. Fewer crop sprays, for example, would benefit the environment if we grew GMO crops that did not need so many crop sprays. But we have to take the public with us, with the science. I believe these measures will help to do just that. – Mr President, does the Commissioner agree with me that there seems to be a new and growing abuse of children which is within the competence of the European Union? Children are being used by mothers from eastern and central Europe on the streets of our cities for begging. They are mostly coming into the Union as refugees. Either they should be taken into care or the begging is unjustified because they should be receiving social benefits from the state. This is something perhaps which should be added to the list of child abuse which we as a Community ought to be looking into very carefully. – Mr President, I happened to be Minister of Health when advice came through that the new guidance should be that some alcohol was better than none, but some was also better than too much, and in a sense that is what we need to do through this report: to help young people understand that there is a balance to be struck between the pleasure and the benefit of drinking alcohol sensibly and the dangers of alcohol abuse. One of the things that had to be learnt was that the units per day that you drink cannot be concentrated in binge drinking at the weekend because the level of alcohol in next day's bloodstream is then catastrophically high. Young people need to understand the danger of abuse, they need also to understand the effect of drinking on their study, on their ability to concentrate, on work, especially if they are working with machinery, on leisure and on sport, and we have inserted a warning about the risk of dying if you swim after drinking too much. Most serious of all is the role of alcohol abuse in triggering or exacerbating mental illness, and especially for young men as the precursor to suicide attempts. This is a useful report. It needs further study in some places, not least on the unit labelling, because in Britain the unit is eight grams of alcohol, in Spain and Denmark it is ten, in France it is twelve and in Portugal it is fourteen. We also need to look carefully at the sports grounds restrictions that are suggested, because there is a huge difference between a ninety-minute football match – give or take the half-time break – and many clubs of course ban alcohol in their grounds, and the all-day cricket match with the lunch and tea intervals. We have to be careful not to ban the hospitality boxes because of loss of revenue to sport and boardroom drinking because of loss of sanity to sports directors. But broadly I welcome this as a step for the Commission to consider. – Mr President, in the North people think it is all over where AIDS is concerned. It is not, of course, but changing lifestyles and the arrival of effective drug regimes have, at least, helped us turn a corner on the long road that we walk. The forecasts when I was health minister fighting these issues were not the same as the forecasts now. But in the South the picture is very different. Ninety-five per cent of the five million new cases every year are in low-income countries in the South. There are 25 million people living with AIDS in Africa and 6 million in the new-growth area in Asia – South and Southeast Asia in particular. Where AIDS is concerned we face a vicious cycle of infection, incapacity and poverty alongside the 16 million deaths we have already seen: two million deaths a year in Africa, a quarter of all Africa's deaths. Ten per cent of people between fifteen and fifty years of age are living with AIDS, and there are 10 million orphans. The people who expected to be looked after in their old age are now unable to have that care and support because their children are dead. That is the scene confronting us. When  went to Zambia and looked at a particular hospital, it saw two-thirds of the patients there dying of AIDS. People's limbs, they reported, looked like broken broomsticks. When they were asked what they were desperate for, they did not say retroviral drugs, they said food, because they were too poor to be able to afford either. Poverty hastens death, and deaths accelerate the survivors' descent into poverty. In Zambia the department of health then estimated that half the population would die of AIDS. That is a human disaster. We are facing human disasters in America now. The world is looking at the headlines, the world is taking action, governments are coming together, people are demanding and subscribing to solutions. But they are not doing that where AIDS, TB and malaria are concerned. It is not terrorism, but it is a health terror and horror that is preventable. That is why the honourable Member's report is so important and fundamental. I congratulate him and the Commission on the work that has been done on this matter and everyone who has participated. Poverty reduction goes hand in hand with the war against disease, disability and death. We desperately need more resources for drugs and vaccines, but must also ensure their adequate distribution to people, so that drugs do not sit in storage deteriorating. We must have adequate education, monitoring and research. It has rightly been said that research should be conducted in Africa, by Africans, for Africans and, where appropriate, with the support, cooperation and partnership of the Western world, along the lines of the IAVI initiative between Oxford and Nairobi. TB too, of course, is a killer. It accounts for two million deaths a year, 95% of them in developing countries; it is the leading cause of HIV deaths; one infected person can pass it on to ten others. Malaria is the third killer; 90% of deaths from Malaria occur in Africa – one death every 30 seconds. In the past four minutes, eight people have died from malaria. I want us and the Commissioner to keep those people who are dying of these diseases in mind and see what we can do. The honourable Member has provided the words in this report; now it is time for the Commission to act. – Mr President, there are two key reasons for action in this field. Firstly, we are mutually dependent on each other for the safety of our food and drink. Food is a single market and food safety is a public health issue. Each country cannot send its food and farming police to sample the corn, chew the cattle and spot-check the vines in every other country. We rely on common standards upheld by consistent levels of inspection, assessment and enforcement. Secondly, the public has lost confidence in the old national and European food safety systems; after the scandals and scares about olive oil, wine, mineral water, beef, eggs, poultry, milk, e-coli, listeria, salmonella, dioxins, hormones and GM foods – and the list goes on. The public wants to be reassured that the long road from seed or stable to market, supermarket, processing plant, oven, fridge and table is as safe as can reasonably be expected. They want safety assessment that is neither conducted behind the closed doors of the Commission nor tainted by producer or pressure group interest. So just as when my report, at the White Paper stage, demanded a system based on science and focused on safety, again we say right across this House: keep the food safety authority slim, transparent, independent and dedicated to assessment of food safety risk and to recommendations as to what action, if any, should be taken. Do not roam down the lanes of healthy eating or comparative diets, however important in health promotion work such routes may be. Keep the word safety in the title of the authority to give a clear signal as to its purpose and methodology. Be, and be seen to be, independent of any one Member State and of the Commission, so do not have a board that allows each country to have a place on it. Keep the number to 12. Do not place the EFSA in any building or venue that has close connections with the institutions of the European Union. Appoint the director of the board after open competition and a parliamentary hearing. Account to Parliament annually for the stewardship of the remit. Publish without delay the conclusions and any minority conclusions of the board on any assessed risk, and hold meetings of the board in public. Attach the food safety bodies of Member States to the authority through an advisory committee comprising the national directors of such bodies. I commend this report and I commend the rapporteur for a job well done, not least because of the inter-party and inter-country cooperation and discussion throughout. As a result the amendments in committee, which will in due course be largely subsumed in composite form, can nearly all be supported. To the Commission and the Council I would say: note the strength of unity in this Parliament on these key issues; cooperate with us in partnership and the beneficiaries will be the European consumers in every Member State. Mr President, cures for cancer are still being sought, but year by year we see progress. The formerly unmentionable disease has, to some extent, overcome the stigma, not least because of advances in medical science, giving hope to patients and families. These depend on early diagnosis, which comes from screening. The extension of screening needs, as Mr Mussa said, to be based on science. I and my colleagues very much welcome his report. There are so many questions about cancer. Concerning breast cancer, screening is well advanced. We must look at how we can extend that to other age groups. We must investigate how we can persuade more men to be aware that breast cancer is a matter for men as well as women and come forward to be screened as well. Bowel cancer is a new area for screening, with new tests available. Again, the issue will be how we can educate people – especially men – to come forward to be screened. For cervical cancer, the pap smear has proved its worth. Now we need the HPV alongside it. I very much support Mr Mussa's amendments in this regard. Lung cancer is the most deadly. Worldwide, 1.3 million people have lung cancer; 80% of these people die within a year of diagnosis. We need more PET scanners. We only have five in the United Kingdom. I understand that there are 60 in Germany and 150 in the United States. We need to highlight these disparities. For prostate cancer, there is screening and the PSA test. There is a demand for these, as we have heard. We should do these tests if and when the evaluation shows its worth. We need the cancer networks. We need the information campaigns highlighted in the amendments that Mrs Oomen-Ruijten and I have tabled. Screening means diagnosis. Diagnosis means lives saved. .  Mr President, on Tuesday this week in the United Kingdom a Dr Harold Shipman committed suicide. He was not just a statistic; he was a health professional who was serving 15 life sentences for the murder of 215 of his patients. Therefore, Commissioner, when we are looking at professional qualifications and seeking ways of facilitating professional mobility, as we should, we are not just talking about job opportunity or filling vacancies, or even individual professional freedom. We should be talking about the protection of vulnerable individuals: simple procedures, yes; riskier procedures, no. In Britain, if you go to your doctor's surgery, you expect the nice new doctor from Italy or Lithuania or wherever to be qualified, and you assume that the proper checks have been made as to his or her integrity and experience and to ensure that the name does not figure on any blacklist for professional or other malpractice. The same applies to your dentist, your nurse, your pharmacist and to other professions, too, such as the architect who has built your house. Hence, we were horrified to realise that the original proposal would have allowed any professional to go to any other EU country and practise there for 16 weeks without any authorisation, checks or vetting. Dr Shipman could have come to a surgery near you. Having talked to British and European professional organisations, I therefore raised this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which asked me to produce an opinion. This was adopted unanimously. It struck out the 16-week provision, it added Article 152 as a legal basis for the directive, and it called for the setting up of a European database of professionals who have been struck off in one Member State, so that they cannot practise in another. These and most of our other amendments, I am happy to say, have been accepted by Mr Zappalà and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. We are grateful to them. More importantly, patients and our constituents in every Member State will be grateful if these safeguards are maintained. – Madam President, we have been on a long journey. This third reading stage it is not the end of the journey, but it is a very significant point on that road towards the protection of human health and the enhancement of animal welfare. That is why the rapporteur has rightly received the plaudits today because she has taken us along that road. When we hear the phrase 'long gestation periods' we have tended hitherto to think of elephants. In future we will think of European legislation. It has been a long gestation period. We then had a long period in labour from 4 p.m. in the afternoon until 4 a.m. in the morning, and at the end we gave birth to a programme which will stand the test, which is why we welcome this point on the debate today. The Commission originally came forward with a proposal to end tests. However, that would have done no more than the proposal which went through in the United Kingdom, which ended testing on animals, but which simply resulted in the tests on animals being exported. We were in danger of doing just that and putting the testing into countries where the welfare of animals was a much lower priority than it is within the Member States. It was right that we moved the debate on to the end of the marketing of products tested on animals within the European Union. We reminded ourselves, and we do so again, that on 1 July the sixth amendment came into force. Technically that would have brought any research using animals to a standstill. There would have been no further progress on the production of new items, not just in the makeup field, but in areas such as medicated shampoos and dental hygiene. We looked beyond that and we see the seventh amendment as the last chance. It sets the target dates to end that marketing. We decided that a blanket target date was not sustainable and so we looked for a timetable, and as a validated alternative becomes available for each test, that test on animals will be banned. All such tests will be banned within the six years with the exception of the three to which the rapporteur has drawn attention, for which there will be a ten-year permitted timetable and a possibility of an extension of two years if, and only if, this Parliament endorses that extension through codecision. Now the challenge is not only to the Commission, other colleagues have said that, but it is to the industry. It is up to the industry to accelerate that search for validated alternatives. The cooperation that exists already between Parliament and industry has been impressive. It has helped to convince firstly the Commission, and then even the minority on the Council which was reluctant to go along with this. This minority too came into line and that is why we are at the point we are today, in optimistic mode. – We have come quite a journey since the Commission produced its first White Paper. At that time I had the privilege of writing the report for Parliament with my friend across the floor – Mr Whitehead – acting as shadow. Now I am reciprocating as shadow for his report. My party is not a great party for harmonisation but we are a party for harmony and that is what we have seen in this report and the way it has been dealt with. I too wish to play tribute to the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, also the Commissioner, Mr David Byrne, and – dare I say it in the light of earlier comments –to Magda Aelvoet, the minister. I hope Ms McKenna will not take offence if I give her praise in her absence as she too has played her part in looking for and helping us to find compromises which make sense, which do not betray anybody and which take forward the concept of food safety for the peoples of Europe. This is an issue which is of considerable importance to people. There is nothing more important than the safety of the food and the drink that they and their families partake of. There is a European dimension to this because, increasingly, not only does food cross boundaries but people cross boundaries. So we need to be certain that the food we eat has been grown in soil we can trust and the fertilisers added to it are known to be safe. The feed that is given to livestock also plays its part in ensuring that the food that ends up in our supermarkets and on our tables merits our confidence. Then we want to make sure that the processing of food is safe and, finally, we want to make sure that when it is stored and retailed, it is still safe for us to take home. Then of course it is up to us. There are many critical issues in this report – the title of the food safety authority has been crucial to us. We do not want to see an all-singing, all-dancing bureaucracy – we want an authority which is focused on safety, on the assessment of risk, on giving guidance where appropriate to the managers of risk. An authority that understands that risk can never be eliminated but it can be adequately spotted and dealt with. Science is crucial, so is independence – that is why the siting of this authority is important. The pre-conciliation process – if I can call it that – that we have been going through is an example of how to take measures through Parliament and the institutions. At this last stage Parliament has spoken overwhelmingly with one voice. I know the Commission and the Council have listened and I believe they will have benefited because we are working together on this measure. – Mr President, Indonesia is a massive country, both in terms of population and area. It is also a multi-ethnic, multi-religious and multi-region nation, and any Indonesian Government has our sympathy and goodwill in its efforts to hold its disparate regions, religions and cultures together. To do so, as our motion suggests, it must face up to the causes of disunity and confront those of evil intent. I was recently in East Timor as the EU's chief observer. I saw for myself the aftermath of the depths of depravity to which an out-of-control situation in that part of the world can sink with militia terror, destruction and murder, with the military standing by. I hope that Indonesia will now both set an example by holding out the hand of friendship to the new nation of Timor Loro Sae as it becomes independent on 20 May, but I also hope that it will learn from Timor in dealing with other parts of Indonesia, particularly the Moluccas, Papua, Sulawesi and Aceh. Laskar Jihad is a threat to the first three of these. Laskar Jihad's website used to boast of links to Bin Laden terror groups. We know that 5,000 Moluccans have died. Another 12 Christians died recently on the same day that the leader of Laskar Jihad, Thalib, launched his renewed jihad. On 4 May we heard that he had been arrested. That is almost one year to the day since he was previously arrested – and what happened? There was no trial, no sentence. He was quietly released when the world stopped looking. We have, Mr Commissioner, to make sure that the world does not stop looking on this occasion and we want to make sure that action is taken. We want the authorities there to investigate links to the military. How did Indonesian army weapons and ammunition – I have the photographs in front of me – come to be in the hands of Laskar Jihad? How is it that in Papua six members of the army's special forces are now accused of involvement in the assassination of a Papuan leader? Who gave those orders? We are proud to be friends of Indonesia, but we can only be friends of a country that genuinely strives for justice, reconciliation, peace, security and the trust of its own people. – Mr President, those of us who were in Abuja and Kano last year for the ACP meeting welcomed President Obasanjo's move from military dictatorship to democracy. We were also aware of the simmering tension in the country, particularly in the north, with outbreaks of violence. Sharia law has been a potent symbol of the cause of that tension, demanded by some Muslims, feared by most Christians and other faiths; partly the result of northern Nigeria not benefiting from independence and oil as the south has done, and a resentment of corruption that they see as chronic in the country. Thousands have died as a result of violence, especially in Kaduna and many Christian homes, churches and businesses have been destroyed. The Zanfara state government has given local vigilante groups the power to implement Sharia law. In reply seventeen southern states have demanded the right to set up their own police forces. Northerners are leaving Lagos after riots that have led to deaths. In the north, journalists in Kano are threatened with Sharia law if they represent it in a negative way. Now we see in Benue and Taraba in east and central Nigeria tribal, not religious, wars. The Jukun and Tiv disputes are about land and ancient rivalries, not about religion. Nineteen soldiers who were trying to keep the peace were abducted and murdered. Then we saw the awful reprisals in which Zakibian, a town of 20 000 people, was destroyed and over 200 people killed. Of course we welcome President Obasanjo's announcement of an inquiry. Ethnic and religious violence must be stopped in Nigeria. There must be equality before the law and not fear and violence. Corruption from whatever source must be rooted out. The European Union must support this. It must also provide humanitarian support for Nigeria, where over 200 people have died of cholera in the last few weeks, and help the people who have been displaced as a result of this violence. – I think if we go on for a few more minutes then these points of order will get Mr Byrne here in time for the debate. If we have to adjourn and take up another subject, we should have an urgency debate on transport to Strasbourg! It is quite intolerable that this House should be messed around by Commissioners who are unable to come here to respond to debates, particularly when, as we have already heard, the agenda has been changed to suit their convenience. That is not acceptable, and with the greatest respect to Commissioner Monti, he is not in a position to answer this debate because, for example, when I asked Commissioner Byrne in the Committee on the Environment whether it would be possible not to waste a lot of time on legal procedures but simply go straight to a legal injunction, he said that would be possible. That was not in the statement we heard from Mr Monti just now. I want Mr Byrne to be here to explain the position with regard to injunctions. That is not possible if he is not here. We should adjourn – if we have to move beyond the competition debate that is fine, but we should not have to wait until 9 o'clock because of the incompetence of whoever is responsible for the travel arrangements of Commissioners. – Mr President, too often we have to come to this Chamber on a Thursday afternoon to make speeches we would rather not have to make. That is certainly true today. I have been to Kyrgyzstan several times in recent years, as it emerged from those dark days of the Soviet empire and set the pace for the region in terms of political, economic and health reforms. I paid tribute then, as I have done since, to those periods of progress. But in the last couple of years we have become worried about progress in that country. President Akayev, who came from a background of the Academy of Sciences, was elected in a free vote in 1991 and re-elected in 1995, has subsequently become more of an oppressive president than a democratic one. Both parliamentary and presidential elections in 2000 sadly highlighted the flawed nature of the electoral process. We were concerned about candidates being banned on technicalities not least because of their knowledge of the Kyrgyz language; about the press being suppressed and repressed; about community groups being prevented from playing their part in the process. Symbolic of all this has been the arrest of Azimbek Beknazarov, chairman of the parliamentary committee on judicial and legal reforms. He was arrested in January and brought to trial in February. The trial was then postponed until this month. This is a country with many problems within its borders, including a lack of natural resources, racial tensions and incursions from abroad. Eighty-eight per cent of its population lives on an income of under USD 4 a day. It does not need the opprobrium that will come from world opinion if it makes a mess of its democratic processes, its independent judiciary and its freedom of speech. That is why we move this motion today, asking them to listen. We will be watching for results. – Mr President, in every part of the world we see examples of violence and cruelty by individuals and sometimes appalling scenes of mob violence and lynch rule. These are horrors which every civilised person, government and judicial system condemns. Some acts of savagery are doubly chilling because they are authorised by people supposedly appointed to administer justice. It is not just in Nigeria, but today we are focusing on Nigeria. The practices carried out there in the name of Sharia law are beyond the pale of any society that calls itself civilised and humane. Stoning for adultery is barbaric; flogging for sex before marriage or alcohol consumption and amputation for theft may be considered excessive. To give judicial approval to a stoning to death by a legal mob cannot be acceptable to the vast majority of Nigerians who are decent and responsible, including their president, and it certainly cannot be acceptable to us. Earlier this year, we saw international pressure helping to put a stop to plans to stone Safiya Husseini to death. Now Amina Lawal faces the same threat of death by torture. Safiya was married at 12 years old and Amina at 14 years old. They lost their childhood and Amina may now lose her life. The young couple Ahmadu Ibrahim and Fatima Usman face the same prospect, as does an older man accused of rape. This punishment is incompatible with the conventions and covenants signed by Nigeria. Tens of thousands of people have written from 110 countries to appeal for clemency in the Amina case. I believe the federal government understands that and indeed the minister of justice has also condemned the verdict. The key is the governor of Katsina state and it is important that the presidency and the Commission and the President of our Parliament add their pleas to those many of us have already sent to Umaru Musa Yar'Adua. – Mr President, we need to be clear that chemicals can be good for you. You only have to look around this chamber at the carpets, chairs, desks, paint, steel and glass to see how much we depend on them. However they can also be bad for you. Some insecticides, flame retardants and even hair sprays can be a danger and we need to be wary of them. Chemicals can certainly present a risk if they are mishandled and they can need regulation. Sometimes they need to be phased out or banned. However, I fear this report goes too far too fast and so, in some respects, does the White Paper. I know it is only the White Paper stage, but we need to look carefully at some of the potential costs, said to be some EUR 8bn to European industry. A massive cost to animals has been referred to. The BUAV estimates 2 123 animals per high production volume chemical test. We are told that 12.8 million would be at risk if one were testing on 30 000 substances and the report goes up to 100 000. Of course not all those would need animal tests, but a substantial number would. One other example of how this report overreacts: paragraph 38 sweeps up all CMR category 3 substances and designates them of very high concern. Just take one example from one industry, the raw materials for flexible foam. The finished product is in no way a hazard and provides comfort and safety for consumers in products from furniture to car dashboards. That is an industry employing 360 000 people, 96% of them in small- and medium-sized firms. They could be at risk. The aims of the White Paper are right: we want to improve knowledge about chemicals and we want a safer world. We should prioritise areas for action. That means rigorous management of risk, without damaging unnecessarily the many small- and medium-sized firms that make up the chemical industry which has its risks but also brings jobs, benefits and safety for our citizens. – Mr President, Commissioner, for 60 years we have had two traditions in Europe and had no significant health problems. As long as we have acceptance of the upper safe limit, consumer choice should prevail. Millions of people in Europe have bought vitamins and minerals of their choice. Not only have they had no problems, but their health and well-being have benefited. Now we are faced not with a health measure but with a single-market measure which threatens to omit 300 items on this list from the 'positive' list of items available. These 300 items are currently legally and safely on sale in the shops of my country and yours, Commissioner. They are not oddball items – they are things based on boron, calcium, copper, iron, manganese, potassium, selenium, zinc and so on. If these items fail in 18 short months to get the scientific committee's approval or to get their dossier in, then they will come off the market. That is not a problem for large manufacturers, but it is a very serious problem for the small ones. The cost and time to them may be prohibitive, and if items go off the market, then it is the consumer who will suffer. If they do go off the market they may, as we have heard, go abroad, go offshore or appear on the Internet, at some risk to the consumer. What we need, Commissioner, is a simplified procedure for the items that have been omitted so that they can come onto the list quickly, and for that we need the 36-month timescale. However, may I say also that Emilia Müller has suffered one of the worst assaults by people outside this Parliament that any Member has had to put up with. It is one thing to be e-mailed; it is one thing to be lobbied; it is one thing to be mass-lobbied; but to endure threats of violence, bullying and harassment as she and her family have is something which this Parliament will not accept. I say that to whoever is doing it outside: lay off, because we will not allow our fellow Member to suffer in that way. She has more integrity in her little finger than those people have in the whole of their bodies and I demand, Mr President, that you suggest to the President of this Parliament that this matter be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee, with a view to seeing how a Member of Parliament under that sort of assault can be protected and allowed to do her job properly as a Member of this Parliament, as a rapporteur and as someone for whom we have great affection and respect. – Mr President, 240 million people live in an archipelago that would stretch from London to Baghdad. Indonesia is massive in geography and population. It is the world's largest Muslim country. It is a mega-player in its region and has enormous potential. Were it to disintegrate, the implications for its neighbours would be catastrophic. I was there two weeks ago. It is a young democracy emerging from the oppressive years of Suharto. Habibi gave it press freedom, which is surviving, Wahid came in as symbol of the drive against fraud and corruption and there are still high hopes of his policy of devolution. He is under pressure from Parliament and street demonstrators and those ambitious to replace him. One of the benefits of dictatorship, of course, is often that the lid is kept on social, religious and racial tensions. Sadly the end of dictatorship so often opens the box and releases these ills. Timor, Moluccas, Aceh, Papua and now Borneo-Kalimantan all show this. The situation in parts of Kalimantan is intolerable and I back this motion totally. But what Indonesia most needs is our support for their efforts to find and fund solutions and any criticism from us must be constructive. – Mr President, Commissioner, I ask you to share the sorrow as well as the anger I feel in speaking as a friend of Eritrea. From 1889 to 1952 Eritrea was under the flags firstly of Italy, then of Britain. It was then given by the international community to Ethiopia in federation, and then it was annexed by that country. It then suffered 32 years of war during which its economy and its environment were ruined and its people dispersed. We then came to 1993 and its referendum for independence. I was there as a UN observer. There was a spirit of hope abroad in that country. The refugees were returning, reconstruction was beginning to take place. 90% of people voted in that referendum. 99% voted for independence. President Isaias was elected president. With a moderate lifestyle and a period of optimism stemming from it, we hoped for the best. For some years the problem was border conflict. Now sadly the problem is internal. Human rights have deteriorated, opposition is not tolerated, eleven former leaders of the government party have been arrested, the press is suppressed and journalists arrested. The Italian ambassador has been expelled. Multiparty elections which were promised for last December were cancelled and now parties themselves have been banned. Democracy has been cancelled in Eritrea. Eritrea is desperate for support in rebuilding a country ravaged by war. They need our aid, but aid must not be without guarantees of good governance. To our friends in Eritrea we say: "come back to the world community of democratic government. Turn away from totalitarianism". To the Commission I say: "be firm". Human rights are not just for our benefit. They are not to make us feel good. They are for the benefit of the people of Eritrea and Eritrea needs those human rights now. Mr President, in welcoming the new Commissioners, I should like to ask the whole Commission to redouble its efforts to promote good relations with, and good governance in, the countries of Central Asia and the Caucusus. We see on our screens today the problems in Georgia. We know the human rights problems in Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan. We know of the new great game being played around the oil pipelines with Russia, the Americans, the Iranians, the Turks and the Afghans all vying with each other. We see the health threats from that region; we see the drug threats and the environmental threats. We need stability among our near and next-door neighbours to be a key priority for the new Commission and the new Parliament. – Mr President, a friend of mine lives with AIDS and so does his wife because he received contaminated blood in a transfusion and then unknowingly affected his wife. I know the risks and dangers and the importance of quality and safety in our blood supplies. That is why I welcome this proposal, particularly the work of my colleague Mr Nisticò. But it would be a tragedy if it was spoiled by one amendment, an amendment which exacerbated the known shortages of rare blood groups and plasma. It would be a tragedy in a very real sense because the WHO points out that there are 80 primary immune deficiency conditions in our world and it is estimated that some 50 000 to 90 000 people in our Europe suffer from those conditions. Most are treatable, most people can lead fairly full lives but only if, every three weeks of their life for as long as they live, they have an infusion of immunoglobin which comes from human plasma and that keeps them alive. Europe uses 7 million litres per annum, and 4 million litres come from compensated donors. Of course we would all prefer all donations to be voluntary. In the United Kingdom they are all voluntary but in the United Kingdom, as we have heard, there is no plasma coming from UK donors for blood products because of the theoretical risk of variant CJD being transmitted by blood. Nor can we take any from other countries in Europe. It does not matter about blood banks or plasma banks in Europe – we cannot take them from countries in the EU where there has been BSE or new variant CJD so we have to look elsewhere, and we and others rely largely on the United States’ supplies. The United Kingdom Department of Health has said there are no acceptable alternative sources. Of course, such imports include remunerated donations and there is no evidence at all that they are any less safe than unremunerated ones. Amendment No 43 would ban the import of such literally life-saving plasma and I urge the support of this House for the rapporteur’s compromise amendment. – Mr President, last year Mrs Maes, Mrs Carlotti and I were in Chad to look at the pipeline project and its impact on the local people and communities and on the environment. We were also looking at human rights in that country. Today we three have tabled this motion because our concern then for human rights has been compounded now by allegations following the presidential elections. It is right that we should not jump to conclusions. It is right that we should take note of the OAU monitors, who thought that the elections were broadly fair. It is equally right that we should take note of the views of those other observers and human rights groups who thought they were not. The government of Chad needs to reassure public opinion in Chad and throughout the world by holding an independent and a public inquiry into the allegations that have been made. The European Union should insist on this. We are major investors in Chad and we should certainly be thinking of sending monitors from this Parliament to Chad for next year's parliamentary elections. However, there are questions to which we demand answers. First, if there are 4 million voters registered in Chad and another half million registered abroad, how can 5.6 million people have voted? Is it true that children were seen with ballot papers? Secondly, why were the OAU and other international observers not allowed into the north of the country? Thirdly, why were the officials of polling stations in the north replaced at midday by military and other civilian personnel? Fourthly, if the total votes recorded in the south were overwhelmingly for opposition candidates as alleged, how can the overall vote have been calculated as it was? Fifthly, is it true, and I believe it was, that a women's delegation seeking to present a petition to the French Ambassador was shot at and dispersed by military personnel? Sixthly, is it true that the six opposition candidates were arrested after the election and one of these, Mr Yorongar, was beaten and wounded? I met him in Chad and I met him again this afternoon when he showed me evidence of the treatment he has been receiving in a Paris hospital. All these questions must be answered and accounted for. That is our demand and it is the demand of the people of Chad. Mr President, I now raise a different point for the Taoiseach. I want to follow the theme that he raised on safety, particularly with relation to health and consumer policies. First, Taoiseach, I look forward to working with Minister Martin on the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, which is crucially important at a time of global disease threats and the threat of bioterrorism. Second, I look forward to working with your presidency on the implementation of patient mobility. Sadly, in the United Kingdom, as a result of the failure of the British Government's health policies, hundreds of thousands of people are waiting unacceptably long times for operations and treatments. This measure will give them some new hope of earlier treatment. Third, in your speech you referred to people in Sub-Saharan Africa: 30 million with HIV/AIDS, and 291 million living below the poverty line. I remind you of the inextricable link between health and poverty and urge you to ensure renewed momentum on health and clean water policies, and on debt relief. Fourth, Taoiseach, allow me take you down a long lane in the county of Meath, to a small business situated there which is known as the Food and Veterinary Office. That office controls and inspects the food, feed, animal welfare and plant health of the European Union: of Member States, Accession States and countries across the world from French Polynesia to the Falklands. It is fundamental to the health and safety of our people. It has just 90 inspectors covering the globe and I ask the presidency to look carefully at that to see how this corner of Ireland, with its EU-wide implications, can be made more effective. – Mr President, you are obviously in a generous mood tonight. I hope your generosity will extend to the daunting task that I have of replacing Mrs Oomen-Ruijten – because of her sad illness – as the shadow rapporteur on this measure. I start by thanking the rapporteur for her remarks and for her work in committee. I have to say that many have questioned the need for some aspects of this measure. Where we need this measure, it is important that our directive is based on science. It is not for us to second-guess the scientific advisers to the Commission. They say these products are safe and the Commission is right to accept that advice. Sucralose presents no problems: it is made from sugar, it is non-calorific, it does not lead to tooth decay or – and here let me declare an interest – to risks for those of us who live with diabetes. Indeed, if it could do something for my brainpower as well, I would sit here munching it all night. It has already been approved in some 45 countries. In the past cyclamates have rightly been treated with caution. However, now science shows that a reduction of the permitted level from 400 mg/l to 350 mg/l is all that is needed. To go further has no basis in science, except for a tiny sample of 43 children in Denmark, which was itself rejected by the Danish Food and Veterinary Administration. The acceptable daily intake – the ADI – is not only the favoured measurement of the FAO and WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives, but it also sets an intake level – not a maximum for a single day, but an average over a lifetime. The proposed ADI is 7 mg/kg of body weight. Thus all seemed plain sailing, until we had the rapporteur's proposal to reduce the figure to 250 mg, whereupon we had the Commission's brainstorm. A normally sensible, wise and objective official, widely respected and, indeed, loved by the world of food and food safety allowed herself to be bounced into a statement that the Commission could accept 250. She then had to admit that this was not based on one iota of scientific evidence. That is a very dangerous precedent. If the Commission ignores the advice of its own scientists, who can we trust? Mrs Oomen-Ruijten and I are both of the view that the requests for a new report on the re-evaluation of the approval of aspartame are also completely misplaced. In December 2002, the Scientific Committee on Food, in cooperation with the French and British food authorities, concluded that there is no reason to adjust the approval of aspartame in any way. In addition, the FDA and JEFCFA – the scientific advisory body of WHO – have approved the substance. Therefore, it is absolutely unnecessary to question the validity of the conclusion of the European Union's independent scientific committee – the SCF – that aspartame is a substance safe for human consumption. It has to be taken into consideration that in the approval of a substance like aspartame the SCF sets the allowed daily intake in which the vulnerable life phases are included at a level such that even the heaviest users of the substance will not exceed 30-40% of that maximum intake. A new report on the evaluation of aspartame would lead simply to negative publicity. It would bring about rumours and feelings of uncertainty among consumers, as a substance that has been approved safe by an independent scientific committee is being questioned again for absolutely no good reason. I would just add that my good friend Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, who, jointly with Mrs Ayuso González, tabled Amendment 12, to which Mrs Ferreira referred, asked me to point out that she thinks there is a translation problem – at least in the English version – and that the category 'fine bakery products, energy-reduced or with no added sugar' – is supposed to be an addition to the previous text and not a replacement for it. I put that before you and leave it in your good hands, Mr President, and exhort the services, if possible, to look at this before we come to vote on the matter tomorrow. – Mr President, here we have what is basically a good measure. It sets out achievable standards based on subsidiarity principles and the water basin management. Its aim of good-quality water for drinking, for wildlife, the environment and economic purposes is right. The prevention of pollution and water deterioration has to be right as well as the ability to manage water in times of drought and flood. We have three outstanding problems. The first is the transfer of water between basin areas. That is a matter which affects my colleagues from Spain, Ireland and the United Kingdom. Amendments Nos 4. 49 and 87 would not be acceptable because they would restrict the ability of a country to move water from where it is in supply to where it is needed, be that arid areas or urban areas. Secondly, we have to have realistic targets, but targets nevertheless. Looking at Amendment No 7, for example, which calls for the complete elimination of naturally occurring substances, you can see that some of the targets set are unrealistic. Also, some of the targets which are set at close to zero – in English, that is quite a meaningless term. We need to look very carefully at those. The concept of continuing reduction as in Amendment No 58 is much better. Thirdly, I raise the problem faced by Scotch whisky. Scotch whisky – especially malt whisky, which is the best – requires water extraction which is used in some quantity and then returned to the water stream. Some of it ends up in the bottle and is drunk. We must make sure that Amendments Nos 49 and 87 leave the deletion exemption so that whisky can continue to be drunk in "high quality", which means it must use good, Scottish peat water. That is my third request – that we look carefully at these measures before passing this measure as a whole. – Mr President, food safety has been high on our parliamentary menu for the past three years. We have had scares and scandals in Europe on olive oil, contaminated wine, mineral water, listeria, salmonella, E. coli, BSE, dioxins, sludge and slurry. They all concerned our constituents and exercised our legislative minds. Now, once again, there is a problem with hormones. We discussed and debated the Food Safety White Paper and went on to pass legislation on food and feed and on the establishment of the European Food Safety Authority. Now, our media have been full of new food scandals. 50 000 Dutch pigs condemned to be slaughtered because they were contaminated by illegal feedstuffs – illegal because of contamination by MPA hormones in feed additives. The cost to the Netherlands alone is immense, tens of millions of euros. The problem probably came, as we heard, from waste water from an American-owned pharmaceutical company in Ireland, sent by an Irish waste disposal firm to a Belgian reprocessing plant that is now bankrupt. That firm supplied glucose syrup or treacle to Dutch feed manufacturers. All 4 000 pigs were then exported from the Netherlands to Belgium. The banned hormone has been found in pigfeed in Germany. 300 German farms were banned from selling milk or animals. But pork was sold, was processed and has been eaten by humans and of course MPA in humans can cause infertility. Some of the syrup, too, ended up with soft drink manufacturers. Some of the feed ended up in Denmark, Spain, France and possibly Luxembourg and Britain. One of the messages the Commissioner has highlighted is that we need coordination, not only between governments but between the directorates of the Commission. I welcome what he said about talking to Mrs Wallström. Commissioner, what is the point of our passing laws if they are not enforced? Where were the checks and the monitoring? What, incidentally, are the Commission's new proposals on controls? Was this negligence or was it a criminal attempt to increase the weight of pigs by illegal means? How often is a blind eye turned to wrongdoing? A banned carcinogenic herbicide was found in grain fed to organic chickens in Germany in June. Yet exports of organic chicken or eggs from Germany were not banned. I have faith in our new food safety measures. I have faith in our new authority and I wish it could be set up faster. But it will only be effective if we have proper enforcement throughout the European Union. – Mr President, I welcome many of the things our Commissioner has been saying and is proposing to do. I ask her with my amendment to do one thing more. We all want to see greenhouse gas emissions reduced and my amendment is not a judgment on energy taxes, but it is seeking to help us make informed decisions on any proposals for such taxes. What we need to know is the assessed impact on jobs in Europe and the extent to which pollution might simply be exported to low-income countries which can ill afford to cope with it. An example of this: for a leading tomato grower in Britain currently paying GBP 363 000 for its gas and GBP 60 000 for its electricity, the proposed climate change levy in Britain would increase its energy bill by GBP 149 000. That is a staggering 35% increase, an increase which would simply drive that company out of Britain and into some non-EU country, possibly in Eastern Europe, possibly in the developing world. What would then happen is that the European Union would claim to have reduced its pollution, reduced its emissions, but at a cost: firstly European jobs would be lost and secondly the world would not have reduced its pollution levels by one iota: the pollution would simply have been exported. That in my view would be immoral to low-income countries and it would be insane economics for the working people of Europe. The European Trade Union Confederation has called on us to make sure that every step – and they do say every step – taken to implement the Kyoto targets is carefully evaluated. They are right. That is what I want. That is what I am asking the Commissioner to do. Please publish your impact assessments on jobs and on the extent to which emissions would be exported. Then we can all take an informed decision. – Mr President, can I reassure you that we have not changed offices for the delegation to Central Asia. I am still vice-president, Mr Di Pietro is still president and Mr Koukiadis is still vice-president as well. Mr Mussa very kindly stood in for us at a meeting yesterday. We welcome the genuine dialogue that we have with the Kazakh Government, parliament, the opposition and the wider community. Kazakhstan is travelling the road from a Soviet republic to an independent and democratic state. Our task is to help keep them firmly on that road. They have our sympathy and support in tackling the many problems they face: pollutants, locusts and AIDS, to name but three. We understand how far Kazakhstan has already travelled towards democracy and human rights. They understand our need to air concerns when they arise and when they are brought to us. To some extent, the tabling of this motion has already brought some answers. The ombudsman system, for example, could be expanded. Perhaps the European Union could help them do just that. But at least it is the first ombudsman system in a CIS country. Religious minorities were targeted by the government, but I am pleased to hear now that has been vetoed by the president. Mr Duvanov's trial was closed to the public. That is not entirely satisfactory. The US and Dutch embassies may have been represented but why were not the Kazakh human rights groups? The Council of Opposition Parties has now been established, although one of the main opposition parties is not represented on it. We need to know more about the 19 January presidential law that was brought in on political parties. It inhibits the ability of some opposition movements to operate legally in the country. Kazakhstan must not slip on its road. We are watching, listening and supporting. The concerns that we have in this motion for a resolution need to be tabled. We need to ask Parliament's Central Asian Delegation to put these on our agenda for the PCA discussions we shall shortly be having with the representatives of Kazakhstan, and then report back to Parliament. – Mr President, congratulations to my colleague on her report. In my part of Europe 3 million people are on illegal drugs, that includes 28% of 16-29 year-olds and 14% of 14-15 year-olds. 12,000 new, notified addict cases come each year; we have 70,000 drug offenders a year and we lose 1,200 people through drug-related deaths per year. This is a battle which we may not be winning now, but which we must not lose. We need a multi-pronged policy, we need to act together to stop the growers and the traders and the pushers, but we also need policies on education and health and we need to encourage research. If we simply cut the supply and not the demand, then we will end up with a higher price for the drugs on the street and with more crime being committed to pay for people's habits. Many of the amendments to this report before us are therefore right. We need to educate young people. We need role models from music and fashion and film to get the message across to young people: not just by saying "no", that does not work, but by telling them the truth. The truth is that drugs can bring pleasure but also the truth is that they can damage health. Damage in the form of cancer and heart disease, in memory and concentration loss, testicular problems and so on, and young people need to understand that, too. Drug-taking is wrong, but we need to help those who are willing to accept help. I shall never forget, as a minister responsible for fighting drugs, going and meeting a young man who had lost his health and his friends and his relationships, his family, his jobs, his prospects and his self-respect. He was being helped to help himself come out of that deep black hole of addiction. I stupidly asked him "Do you feel you are beating it yet?" and he said to me "I have a lifetime struggle ahead of me – if I ever think that I have beaten it, then I am lost". He deserves our support. He needs the research to make sure that we have effective treatments and we need to give him that help and that confidence. But how much better if we could destroy this evil by persuading future generations of young people that it is simply not for them; it is simply not worth taking the risk. . – Madam President, when you stand in a derelict asbestos factory in Poland and taste it on your tongue, when you hear a debate in Malta about how they dispose of waste on a small island made of hard rock, and when you stand in a yard in Bulgaria and see where the offenders with mental disorders are expected to exercise for one hour a day, you see some of the challenges that some of our European family have to meet as they seek to join the European Union and adopt our acquis. Our Committee on the Environment's enlargement reports have highlighted concerns on nuclear safety, stocks of obsolete pesticides, food and feed safety, habitats and wild bird protection and human rights in mental health systems. We want to see compliance with the acquis, but we understand that the acquis has standards that we are all seeking to implement. We want candidate countries to have access to advice and support from specialists and funds available to us already as Member States to meet our obligations and we ask the Commission to ensure that we are not asking candidate countries to meet standards that our own Member States are failing to meet themselves. – Madam President, I welcome the Commissioner’s statement that he is in listening mode. I wonder if he would listen in particular to those people who are working in the field of public health and their concerns that what has been a very good programme on public health care, health promotion and illness prevention seems to be disappearing. As I understand it, within the first seven categories of research programmes, when health comes in, it is confined to highly scientific biomedical research programmes. When people ask what is happening to public health care research, they are told that it has gone into the all-embracing Category 8, which is rather a jumble sale of a programme with a very small amount of money attached. They are told that directorates-general of the Commission are already being invited to submit bids, so it is Agriculture bidding against Environment bidding against Health, and so on. This area of public health looks like missing out, just at the time when the Treaty of Amsterdam is putting it up the agenda for the European Union. Will he have a look at that, because if we are going to get the research programme right, we need to have research into that research programme, and to listen to the people in the field. Mr President, 200 years ago, there was a slave revolt in San Domingo. The slaves overthrew their French masters and established the world's first black republic, which they named Haiti. A Proclamation of Independence pledged both brotherhood to those former masters whom 'do us justice' and 'its government henceforward to be one of justice'. That was as good as it ever got for Haiti, which in our lifetime has sunk into poverty and terror. It has become a byword for state-sponsored violence and horror, with the Tonton Macoutes and the years of Papa Doc. With Aristide came a beacon of hope, which was snuffed out by a military coup, reinstated, but then the country steadily lapsed into a regime of economic decline, human rights abuses, murderous militias and dubious electoral practices. Now it has imploded again. Bodies lie in the streets – victims of all sides – and children caught stealing beg for mercy to spare their lives. Children are at risk from hunger and disease. Factories and warehouses lie demolished, and with them have gone the jobs. Armed bandits, drug traffickers and death-squad leaders are exploiting the leadership vacuum. The world listened too late to Caricom's increasing anxiety, as so eloquently expressed by Louis Straker, Deputy Prime Minister of St. Vincent and the Grenadines, at the ACP Joint Parliamentary Assembly in Addis Ababa a few weeks ago. By that point it was too late to bring the government and opposition together – not that the opposition was particularly helpful when it came to sticking to its conditions for cooperation. What can be done? France has sent troops to join those of the US. Presumably they will keep their EU partners informed, consult with them, and call on them as and when necessary. Should the rest of us wring our hands and leave it to them? Do we follow in the wake of UN resolutions? Do prepare and activate our humanitarian and subsequent development aid? Do we contribute to the cost of peacekeeping? Do we respond to UN calls to unblock roads to bring food and aid to the north? Do we help the local police to recapture the 3 500 prisoners who have escaped from 20 prisons, making it difficult to bring to justice the perpetrators of crimes during military rule? We need to do all these things. We need to release the frozen EDF monies. We need, once the multinational interim force has re-established order, to support CARICOM initiatives for a stabilisation force. We need to give support to the Prime Minister, Gérard Latortue, appointed by the Council of Wise Men, and the interim President, Alexandre. Then we need to help with bringing the guilty to justice and the establishment of a truth and reconciliation commission. On a day when terror has struck on our own continent, in Spain, and our hearts are with the people of Spain, we need to find room in our hearts for the people of Haiti too and to lend them our support and help them to have justice. – Mr President, I rather liked the introduction from the Commissioner on this. I thought he got it right, with one exception: he was misreading paragraph 3. It is not as negative as he suggests. The original text from Mrs Breyer, which welcomes the Commission's suggestion that the current list be regarded, has now become 'notes the Commission's suggestion that the current list could be regarded'. That has been changed quite significantly. You need to look at all the changes that took place in committee. After all, food has been treated with ionising radiation for some 50 years, as the rapporteur rightly said. In my country, the UK, products include vegetables, fruit, cereals, poultry, fish, shellfish – not too many frogs’ legs! All that range, to a certain degree, is given this treatment. Different countries have different lists. The common ground between us is that it must not pose a health hazard, is of benefit to consumers and is labelled. If there is a need and if it is safe, then why not? That is the committee's broad view. Well, it is safe. The WHO says so. The EU Scientific Committee on Food says so, and it therefore is an element of consumer protection in itself. There is a need, for instance, in hospitals, to protect the food of some very vulnerable patients from dangerous bacteria. It can protect food from contamination. What it cannot do is to reverse contamination or putrefaction in food. The Commission came forward with a perfectly sensible communication – a discussion paper – with its options of the current EU list, plus shrimps and frogs’ legs, of the current wider Member States' list, or of the current EU list alone. I suspect the answer is somewhere around the first and second options, but we are not at this stage dealing with the legislative proposal. The Commission is in listening mode. We needed cool, calm reflection on this. That is a thousand miles from the threat of Armageddon that we saw in the original report, with spectres of dangers, such as the long journeys that are actually of benefit to the developing countries in exporting their goods. The picture of the radioactive sources posing safety risks and risks to security through the acquisition of radioactive materials by terrorists seeking to make dirty bombs has been banished from the committee's view. We are looking for something a little more measured. The report in its original form was more like the description of the Merovingian dynasty as despotism tempered by assassination. The reality is that we have a process that is safe if used properly. It can bring benefits and it should be considered carefully with proper risk assessment and risk management, but without scaremongering. The amendments that Mrs Grossetête and I proposed and the committee supported bring this report back to where the Commission might prefer it to be. – Mr President, tobacco wrecks lives. To the shame of this European Union, we require our taxpayers to subsidise the growing of the wretched stuff to the tune of over EUR 1 billion a year. At the same time, we jeopardise sensible measures to deter smoking, especially among young people, because we try to put the whole world within our single market. If we insist on telling other countries what health standards they should set by extending our sensible proposals for the domestic market to exports, we shall put all Mr Maaten's good work at risk. Because, as sure as export night follows advertising day, there will be another challenge in the courts, and not just the export provision but the whole directive with it will be thrown out. I should like the Commissioner to clarify whether the removal of the exemption for exports applies just to the tar and nicotine levels, as was the impression given in committee, or to all the proposals in the directive. We need to know because thousands of jobs are at stake in Darlington, Nottingham, Southampton and Belfast. Those jobs could be destroyed very quickly by our misunderstanding and our vote. I want to see sensible measures go through and not lost. I want to see an end to misleading descriptions such as ‘mild’ and ‘light’ that give the impression that some cigarettes are safer: deeper inhalation means they are not. These labels should go. There should be no exemption for trademarks or we will simply create new anomalies in competition and the single market. I want to see the photographic warning option, sensible listing of ingredients, Europe-wide research, health promotion measures to help children to remain smoke, tar, nicotine and addiction free. I do not want to see all this put at risk because we tried to take this measure beyond the legal powers of this European Union and this Parliament. – Mr President, I should like to say one thank you and make four short points. The thank you is to the President, Mr Priestley and his team, and our Quaestors for the way they have taken up the points we have been raising since the last meeting. There have been many improvements which we have noticed, not least the very helpful guides who are around to help us when we get lost. The four brief points: the first is air conditioning. Mrs Lynne may have problems with smoky air. I have problems with no air in some of the meeting rooms. I hope they can get that right. If they can get it right for our offices, it should be able to work in our meeting rooms too. Secondly, when we leave this Chamber we are met with a scrum. I would like to see the area outside the Chamber deemed to be part of the Chamber so that no cameras, assistants, lobbyists or members of the public block us from reaching our offices. The area around the back, including the bridges across to the lifts should be seen as part of the Chamber, and not accessible to the public. Thirdly, concerning the lifts, I have been stuck twice in a lift – which might not surprise you if you look at me. The first time somebody jumped up and down and the lift started again. The second time somebody found a bit of plastic, put it into a hole in the wall and that seemed to start the lift up again, but it might have fused the whole system. Lastly, I ask that the flexes and loose wires in our offices be looked it. This is a health and safety at work issue. When I spin round on my desk chair to access my email I am entangled in a mess of wires. One of these days there will be a puff of smoke, a loud bang and one of your Members will light up like a Christmas tree. – I am grateful to the Commissioner for his reply although I have to say that five months is a long time to wait for minutes. What I say now is no reflection at all on the Commissioner himself, but I hope that he would accept with me that science must inform our decisions on risk and how to manage it. In this case the science was less than adequate. It was not validated by peer review and so on. So when it came to the Science Committee and the chairman's views it was significant that his advice – in his words – did not justify a banning action. The resulting ban on other phthalates had nothing whatsoever to do with children's toys or teething rings. This exercise brought into some disrepute the precautionary principle. That principle only holds good if the decisions are scientifically irreproachable. It was not a happy experience and I hope the Commission would agree that both the Commission and Parliament have a lot to learn from this experience. Mr President, in this year we should highlight the problems but also celebrate the achievements of people living with disability, not just people of genius – the Beethovens, Miltons, Van Goughs and Stephen Hawkings – but those who are unknown. For example, the boy from the north of England who had learning difficulties and was written off by the education service, but was then found to have musical ability. Whereas had he had a job in industry he could not have read the safety signs, he went on to play in the orchestra at Covent Garden. Then there is the dancer who trained at the Ballet Rambert School. She was profoundly deaf, but learnt to dance through the rhythm of her feet and went on to dance with the Portuguese National Ballet. I knew a tiny, frail, 23-year-old girl who had been confined to a wheelchair all her life and had undergone 26 lifesaving operations. She was a trainee at the SHARE community. She decided to do a sponsored wheelchair push, self-propelling the wheels with her tiny hands. As she herself said, it was the first time in her life she had the opportunity to help other disabled people. People can and do achieve, despite severe physical and mental disabilities. For a few that means successful careers in business, politics, the arts or professions. For most it means more local, private, domestic achievements: coping with living and contributing to the lives of those around them. We have a duty to help not in an intrusive or invasive way, but by removing legal, physical and psychological barriers. They bring the courage. They deserve from us the opportunity and the dignity. In government I was able to bring in a system of direct payments so that a person was not provided for by social service departments if he or she preferred to have the cash equivalent to purchase the services from the supplier of their choice. If you buy your own services, meals, transport and so on, then you are in charge, you have a form of dignity and independence which too often is lacking in the relationship between state services and citizens. That is the route we should be seeking from this year on. – Mr President, I am sorry that most of those who sought to stop this debate did not bother to stay to hear it. I compliment the rapporteur on her report and all the work she has put in. Food supplements can be a tonic or a health aid. In rare cases the nature of the supplement or the nature of an individual mean that too great a dosage could be harmful, and so, for generations, we and other countries have set safe upper limits. With these and with proper labelling the consumer can exercise a safe, free and informed choice. In Britain, Ireland and elsewhere we have not gone down the route of some of our fellow Member States, which is to take the recommended minimum daily allowance that was set by the American Government in 1943 to ensure that GIs serving in Europe did not suffer from scurvy and beri beri, and to treat that as the basis for maximum intake before classification as a pharmaceutical. We fear that route leads to higher costs to consumers or an incentive to use unregulated foreign suppliers. Our belief is that the two systems can coexist. That is the purpose of Amendment No 50, in my name and that of Mrs Doyle and others. It allows the RDA to be taken into account when it is close to the upper safety limit. I believe that the positive list, as it stands, is far too limited. We should at the very least expand it by the amendments to this effect. Labelling must allow for accurate health messages, such as for folic acid. Lastly, I support the reinstatement of the word "physiological" alongside "nutritional", as otherwise a significant number of items on sale and acceptable today could risk being banned. It was a word included, I believe, at the behest of the Council's working party of experts. Folic acid is an example. These are not just my views and those of my delegation. They are the views of the British Labour Government and, more importantly, the views of the new UK Food Standards Agency. – Mr President, I beg to move the adoption of the report in my name on the White Paper on food safety. It gives me great pleasure to do so. I should also like to refer to the 19 amendments we have before us on this report. I accept 16 of them. The three that I do not accept are Amendments Nos 14, 16 and 17, and I prefer 15 to 5 and 10 to 6. As Feuerbach said: "der Mensch ist, was er isst", man is what he eats. We are what we eat – and sadly that is true in my case. I am clearly what I eat.  More seriously, as a result of eating badly some people suffer long-term illness and indeed some people die of food poisoning their bodies. Over recent decades we have seen many scandals: olive oil, contaminated wine, mineral water, beef, dioxins and sludge. We have learned the new vocabulary of e-coli, salmonella and listeria and so on. We have had scare and scandal leading to fear, panic and public enquiry. Our constituents around Europe look to us to reassure them that the food they eat is safe and the water they drink is drinkable. They have lost faith in the current machinery and mechanisms to control and remove risk from "farm to table", in the phrase that is so often used. The truth is that you cannot eliminate risk. That is not within our grasp. Risk will always occur from animal feed and crop sprays of agriculture to the processing of food, transport, refrigeration, storage and retailing. And then the risk goes on to our own home, our kitchens, our larders and to our cooking skills and habits in those kitchens. If we cannot eliminate risk, we can at least take action to identify it and manage it. New action is needed. We must put into place a framework of legislation, guidance and good practice on food, feed, pesticides, dioxins, labelling, additives, novel foods and so on. Alongside that framework we need a new body to restore public confidence and the respect of Member States. My report proposes the establishment of a European Food Safety Agency which should be authoritative, independent, objective, accountable, transparent and intelligible. Its focus must be on safety and its method must be science. Its task is risk assessment and then giving advice on that risk management. The Commission's task is risk management and control. Parliament's task will be the scrutiny and monitoring of both. We have a rapid alert system. That needs to be improved but it can only be swiftly accountable to Parliament if it continues to be run by the Commission. Nevertheless it should be physically and operationally close to the EFSA. Its remit should be extended to cover feedstuffs as well as foodstuffs. The director of the ESFA is key. His appointment must be by the Commission, but after a hearing by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, probably involving other committees such as the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. There needs to be an annual report and presentation to Parliament and risk reports coming to the Commission, Parliament and the Council. The board needs to reflect the range of relevant experience in production, processing, retailing, consumption, law and so on. Scientists need to give a report on assessment to the board who then makes sure that it is in terms the consumers understand, add any recommendations on risk management and submit it to the Commission and to us. We need close working with national food safety authorities and with international bodies. We need to see the work of the current five scientific committees and the Steering Committee subsumed within this. It will be within a small headquarters, professionally run, accessible to the Commission and Parliament, although the site is not for now. I thank my colleagues of all parties and all Member States. I thank them for the constructive dialogue we have had. I thank the Commission and its staff. I thank the Council and the French Presidency for their messages of support. I thank Parliament's secretariat. We have here a proposal which can work to improve the safety of our foods, to restore the confidence of the public in our respective nations. I hope that Parliament will endorse it. – Mr President, most of the contributions in this debate have been about the big global issues that appear on our television sets. I want to raise something with the Presidency which was in the small print of her remarks. It is something which affects millions of our fellow citizens in Europe, not once in a while, but every day of every year, and that is mental illness. I was so pleased when the Finnish Government decided to make mental health promotion one of their priorities for their presidency. That is welcome. It is important. It is important because as the World Bank showed, this is the fastest growing area of health burden throughout the world. It is important because as the United Nations has declared, it is to be one of the priorities for the UN for the next fifty years, as declared by Boutros-Boutros-Ghali, Secretary General. It is important because, as the Harvard World Bank report showed, mental disorder accounts for some 10.5 % of the global health burden and that is forecast to rise to 15 % by the year 2020. It is important because five of the ten leading causes of disability are psychiatric, with the first of those, unipolar depression, accounting for some 10 % of life with disability. It is important because psychiatric and neurological conditions cause 28 % of lives with disability. It is important because suicide is the tenth most important cause of death in the world – in the United Kingdom it is the ninth, ahead of road accidents. It is important because surveys show that one in three people visiting their doctors have a mental health problem but only one in six are diagnosed as such. It is important because one in seven of us have a mental health problem at any one time. One in three of us will during our lifetime. It is not a forgettable minority. Nothing is more important among all the Finnish pledges than their pledge to take up the cause of people and their families who suffer not just an illness or a disability but disadvantage and stigma too. We need to encourage good mental health. We need to help prevent illness and we need to educate peoples and governments in Europe that mental illness is not to be feared, not to be ignored. It can be cured, it can be treated and millions of our fellow citizens can lead full and fulfilled lives if we... (The President cut the speaker off) – Madam President, Tibet is an issue which is on our agenda year after year after year, and to that extent I understand the point that the honourable Member has made. We have adopted resolutions on this subject time and time again. It is a country that is illegally occupied by China and its people are oppressed by that regime. It is an urgent issue because in recent months we have seen various measures being taken by the Chinese government to move people into the area of Tibet and to exploit the natural resources there. These measures were initially supported by the World Bank, Germany, the United States and the United Kingdom. Now that the pressure has been put on, Germany and the United States have withdrawn their support. The World Bank is withdrawing support but it has not yet said so publicly. It is urgent that we put pressure on them to withdraw support for these measures so that this Parliament can stand up for the people of Tibet, stand up for democracy, stand up for the stopping of what is an illegal act in international law. I welcome Mrs Flemming's question and would also suggest to the Commissioner that there is a way through. There is a sphere of competence within the European Union and it is that of health promotion and illness prevention, which includes the illnesses and suffering that can be caused by elder abuse. I suggest we take a look at this. When I was responsible for this policy area in my home country, we did a lot of research, and a lot of research was done in the USA and other countries, to see how elder abuse could be prevented. Very often elder abuse is committed by evil people who are perpetrating crimes, but very often too it is committed by people within families, carers and professional helpers who reach the end of their tether because they do not feel supported. People who would never have believed themselves capable of elder abuse suddenly find that the explosion has taken place, and that they have struck out and hurt someone they love. I suggest therefore that we look to pool the experience we have in the different Member States in order to establish good practices in this field within the sphere of competence to which I have referred. – Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her report and the Commissioner for bringing forward this proposal. I think the Commissioner is right at this stage that it should be a recommendation. There are different cultures in different Member States and we need to respect that, and so recommendations on good practice are probably the way forward at this stage. I should also like to point out to him and to you, Madam President, that he needs to go through the text of his communication to make absolutely certain there is nothing in it which will frighten people into thinking that this recommendation is in any way promoting drug use. There is no safe drug abuse, it is a question of how we reduce and prevent the harm that arises from such abuse. In my country we have 3 million people on illegal drugs, 28% of them are 16-29 year olds, 14% of them are 14-15 year olds. We have 12 000 new notified addicts, 70 000 drug offences and 1 200 drug related deaths per year. If you look at the European figures from the MCDDA, offences in the EU have doubled since 1991 and quadrupled in some countries such as France, Greece and Spain. Acute drug related deaths have doubled since 1985. There are those who use the same arguments as we sometimes hear on AIDS, saying that we can forget about those people who are infected, but should protect and save the rest. However, we must not abandon people who are hooked. Many of them, as those figures show, are children. We are losing the battle but we must not give up the fight. Our aims must be to target the growers and manufacturers, the traders and pushers, and to educate, deter and prevent, but also to reduce the harm to those addicted and to those with whom they come into contact. This recommendation does exactly that. No Member State is forced to do anything. This sits alongside measures on prevention. To my colleague Mr Santini I would say that if his amendments 60, 61, 63 and 64 were in addition to the proposals in this report then I would be happy to accept them. It is only if they replace the proposals that I am less happy. This is not the occasion for a debate on legalisation and I know there are some amendments on that. That is why I would reject the legalisation and decriminalisation arguments on this occasion. The report does not replace harm reduction with other measures, least of all 'JUST SAY NO', which does not work. I know that from having been Minister responsible for drug addiction in my own country. You have to tell young people in particular the truth. They have to know the upside as well as the downside. We had the case of Leah Betts, a young girl who died taking ecstasy, an amphetamine. Afterwards, her parents very bravely allowed a video of her body to be shown, so that young people would understand the effect of taking ecstasy. They also joined us in making sure that we issued guidance to night clubs on how to avoid this catastrophe affecting other people. It is a question of water provision and 'chill-out rooms' and so on, and not a question of 'shooting rooms', which is a completely different matter. There are so many young people who need and deserve our support. There are needle exchanges, which protect not just the addicts, but also the people with whom they are in contact. Prison health needs to be looked at and we need to stop the abuse of drugs in prison, but we also need to ensure there is harm reduction and that we do not incorporate perverse incentives to further drug taking. I welcome this report. The whole subject needs to be treated with care, and I know the Commissioner will ensure that this is the case as we move forward to take on good practice throughout the European Union. – Mr President, today is my mother's 97th birthday and in her lifetime she has seen wars and famines, poverty and plagues, and she has also seen our world find the knowledge to prevent and defeat these global ills. But she has not yet lived to see the leaders of our world unite, to use that knowledge to bring peace and health and the means to live for the 800 million of our fellow human beings who are hungry. She was 69 when the first World Food Conference pledged everyone must be free from hunger – not everyone except 400 million – everyone. She was 91 when the World Food Summit abandoned that pledge and set a target of halving the world's hungry to 400 million by 2015. Now we know that this appallingly modest target will not even be met until 2030. In the second half of my mother's life, 400 million people have died of hunger – three times the numbers killed in wars in her lifetime. On this her birthday another 24,000 will die. Surely we could have expected that the Rome Summit would have agreed an action plan to stop this slaughter. Surely the leaders of the western world would have supported a programme to address the causes of hunger: poverty, conflict, disease, sanitation, bad governance, man-made disasters, and inadequate local food production and distribution, the very points that you, Commissioner, raised in your letter of 20 June to Mr Diouf on the failings of the summit. You were right, but you were excessively polite. You might have started by condemning the EU Member States, of whom only Italy the host, and Spain the presidency, sent heads of government. The British Labour Government did not even send Mr Blair, did not send the passionate Clare Short. No, they sent a junior official, a member of the DFID's – quote – "knowledge-sharing on special initiatives unit". That is how much they cared. Where was the passion? The Italian press made it clear that the delegates were more interested in the than in fighting world hunger. The summit took two and a half years to put together. It cost millions. It was so well organised that the final document was agreed before the summit began. And what a declaration! It recalls, recognises, reaffirms, reiterates and then goes on to do it all again. The new policy to help the hungry of the world is not "Everything but Arms", but anything but lift your arms to do anything. One recommendation sums it up – and the Commissioner quoted it: "We invite the FAO to establish an intergovernmental working group to elaborate in a period of two years a set of voluntary guidelines for Member States to achieve the progressive realisation of the right to adequate food". What a message of hope for the hungry. What a cop-out. Think nothing, see nothing, do nothing. No new thoughts, no new vision, no new initiatives and no urgency. In 2015, and no doubt in 2030 too, we will be back regretting lack of progress, extending deadlines, reducing targets, setting up working parties and failing to help the hungry nations to solve their needs. Again we will issue emergency appeals for the consequences of our inaction today. Now we move to Johannesburg and our message must be: "Wake up Europe, wake up the Western World". For once overcome this political sleeping sickness that seems to paralyse us in the face of disasters that together we have the power to prevent. – Mr President, 12 years ago this month, we saw the cease-fire after the liberation of Kuwait. In March 1991, UN Resolution 686 set out the conditions of the cease-fire. In April 1991 UN Resolution 687 required Iraq to accept the internationally supervised destruction, removal or rendering harmless of all chemical and biological weapons, agents and components. In August 1991, UN Resolution 707 condemned Iraq's non-compliance. Now, after 12 years of flouted UN resolutions, 12 years of internal oppression and torture, 12 years of violence against the Kurds and Shi'ites of his own country, Saddam Hussein has been given a last chance. And yet, unlike when we took action to rescue the Falklands, Kuwait and Bosnia, this time our constituents are uneasy and uncertain. They see no unity of purpose among the governments of Europe. They see Member States declining to comply with their Nato obligation to protect Turkey against the possibility of attack. Their fears are confirmed that a European defence policy could be dangerous for Nato. They do not know why action is being proposed, what is supposed to happen at the end of it and which countries might be next. The guilt of Saddam Hussein is in effect being compounded by the failure of our leaders to explain. My own Prime Minister, Mr Blair, has abysmally failed to persuade the British people. He could not even persuade a single one of his own Labour MEPs to vote for his policy. Unlike Iraq, we are democracies. Unlike Saddam, Mr Blair, you cannot go to war without heeding the concerns of your own people. It is time we set out the facts and destroyed the myths. UN inspectors are not like a team of archaeologists excavating for ancient Mesopotamia in the sand. It is not their task to play 'seek' to Saddam's 'hide'. They are there to assess Saddam's evidence of how, when and where he has destroyed or handed over his weapons of mass destruction. We do not need more inspectors. Mr Blix has confirmed that. We need compliance by Saddam Hussein. Where are those precursor chemicals, the munitions? Where are the tonnes of bulk chemical warfare agents: 1.5 tonnes of VX nerve agent, 10 milligrams of which on the skin results in rapid death? I do not believe that any of us want war. We want peace, but we want a peace that is free from the threat of terrorism. Saddam Hussein needs to understand that either he complies in full with the UN resolutions or he risks plunging his own people, once again, into the suffering of war. – Madam President, I wish to begin by thanking the Commissioner for his statement. However, let me say to him that I hope the outcome from Rome will be more than a statement: I hope it will be a programme of determined action. The public's perception of hunger is very often the televisual one of famine. However, over the last 25 years that has been largely identified with conflict situations, and the real problem is malnutrition. Poor water leads to disease and disability and to death and, of course, the loss of a productive workforce. That in turn leads to low-income countries, which leads to malnutrition, and that is the cycle we want to break. It is exacerbated when humanitarian aid undermines local farmers and local economies. We feel good giving our food surpluses to low-income countries, not realising that can do more harm than good to the producers of food in those countries. It is exacerbated again when we close our doors in Europe to their agricultural exports, on the perfectly understandable grounds of hygiene and food safety. There is a spiralling problem here. It means that we prevent them from earning enough to afford to meet our standards. When I was in Cape Town for the ACP, it was absurd that local producers were asking me to help them. They wanted their high-quality springbok meat to be served in Europe as in their top-quality hotels throughout Africa but, because of the rules on slicing meat, they could not afford the equipment and could not enter the market. That is the sort of thing we must guard against. To get back to the basic challenges. It is a quarter of a century since we set our targets. We said we must solve the problem and, then, in 1996, we identified 800 million people undernourished. We aimed again to halve that number by 2015: that means over 20 years, a reduction of 22 million a year. But we are reducing at 6 million a year, and five years on we are not going to meet our target. The target will not be reached until 2030. The paradox is that world food production has outpaced population growth: the 5.8 billion in the world today have, on average, 15% more food per person than the 4 billion 20 years ago. But per capita food production has not increased in the high-debt, low-income countries, especially in sub-Saharan Africa. That is where our attention should be focused. In 2000, out of 5.8 billion people, 826 million people were still hungry. By 2015 – our target year – 580 million will still be hungry at the present rate. I ask the Commission and all of us to remember that the United Nations Development Programme estimates that it would take just USD 13 billion a year to solve this problem. USD 13 billion a year is what we in Europe and America spend on cosmetics. I ask them to think that in the last 50 years almost 400 million worldwide have died from hunger and poor sanitation. That is three times the number of people killed in all the wars fought in the entire 20th century. Lastly, I ask you remember that every year some nine million people die from hunger. That is 24 000 deaths a day; it is one life lost every 3.6 seconds; it is 50 dead in the three minutes I have been speaking. Those are the things we should be thinking about when we are in Rome on 10 June, and that is why I ask for action and not just statements. – Mr President, I am sorry that my giving way to Mrs Oomen-Ruijten seems to have caused her some anguish but I do not think she is any need of any blood products. This is a very welcome report and I congratulate our rapporteur. The safety of blood, as we all know, is paramount. Some of our Member States have had horror stories to remind them of that. But the supply of blood is also paramount for those whose lives depend on it. Our preference is for unremunerated donation – that is the British practice and that is what we want to see – but, in practice, Europe imports nearly 50% of its plasma and plasma products. I am not talking about the standard blood transfusion service that comes around to your church hall and you pop in for half an hour, have a cup of tea, and go back to work. I am talking about plasma donation, where you have to travel some distance to fixed machinery and it takes half a day. We have to import some of those products and a lot of them come from the United States, where many of the products are remunerated. Research shows that remunerated blood is perfectly safe in itself. The key, of course, is the screening of blood products wherever they come from. The hyper-immune plasma products are nearly all imported into the European Union and 2,166,367 people in the European Union depend on them: some 400 thousand in Britain, 400 thousand in France, 100 thousand in the Netherlands, 40 thousand in Finland and so on. These are people with haemophilia, primary immune deficiency, albumen tetanus needs, acquired deficiencies, auto-immune diseases and Rhesus negative pregnant women. Without supplies, their health and their lives can be at risk. Of course we must encourage unremunerated donation. That is our custom and practice but in a world of BSE and CJD, we cannot be purists. Otherwise we are putting the lives of our fellow citizens at risk. – Mr President, 'Egypt: where everyone wears a smile' is the slogan advertising Egypt to the world. There are no smiles on the faces of the gay men and boys of Egypt who have been harassed and their homes raided, and who have been entrapped via the Internet on trumped-up charges. There is no smile on the face of Wissam Abyad, in prison and badly treated since January, after just one meeting. There is no smile on the face of Zaki 'Abd al-Malak. There is no smile on the faces of the 21 Egyptians from the infamous 'Queen's Boat' discotheque trial, whose sentences have been increased on appeal to three years' imprisonment and forced labour. There is no smile on the faces of those anti-war demonstrators who were arrested on 20 March in Cairo and reportedly tortured. There is no smile, as we have heard, on the members of Coptic Church in Egypt persecuted for their faith. Egypt has contributed so much to our civilisation, we must urge it now to follow a civilised path on these issues. You do not have to agree with other people's beliefs, their political opinions, and their sexual preferences. You do, if you believe in the fundamental principles of democracy, have to defend their right to believe, their right to hold opinions, their right to choose their personal lifestyles. Those are the principles this Parliament must uphold. – Mr President, Uzbekistan, the land of Bukhara and Samarkand is now in our thoughts as the border country of Afghanistan with Taliban-linked extremists operating in its territory. We acknowledge that there are human rights problems in that country to be tackled, but we welcome its partnership in the fight against terrorism. Yet not many of us are aware of the other crisis in Uzbekistan. Reporters report on the problem and potential problem of refugees in the area. They do not report on the 13 million people affected by one of the worst droughts in history in the area, that started in the spring of last year. They do not report that six million children under 14 are affected. They do not report that drinking water and irrigation water is in desperately short supply, that most of the crops in the affected areas have failed, that poor-quality drinking water and sanitation problems have resulted in one of the highest levels of ill health in the region. They do not report that only 54% of the people in urban areas in Uzbekistan have access to sewage networks, or that only 3% in rural areas have such access. As a result, parasitic infection is rife and the third cause of infant deaths is diarrhoeal disease. Malnutrition and poverty have reached crisis point. We need urgent action to supply essential drugs and equipment, to strengthen water-quality control, to support and monitor nutrition programmes, to train health workers and conduct health education programmes. We also need to help the country change from its heavy use of agrochemicals, its diversion of rivers and its poor drainage system. I commend this motion to the House. Mr President, for me this is not a debate on the rights and wrongs of those in Aceh who campaign for independence, nor is it a criticism of Indonesia's right to intervene to secure law and order, so long, of course, as that country does not permit human rights abuses to be committed by any of its forces. It is a debate about the escalating humanitarian crisis. As we know, most of Aceh's 4.2 million people live outside the two main towns. For them food, water, electricity and communications have been disrupted. Healthcare and education have become impossible. Five hundred schools have been burnt down, thousands of people have fled from their homes and Governor Puteh has said that unemployment and poverty are now at alarming rates. We worry about human rights and I raise two issues. One is the fact that 77 community heads have been replaced by military personnel and the second is that active in Aceh are people like Major General Damiri, Brigadier General Suratman and others who have been convicted of crimes against humanity in East Timor. They are on duty in Aceh. Kofi Annan has appealed to Indonesia to ensure access to humanitarian aid and human rights organisations. He is right. The obstacles to this are in Presidential Decree 43/2003, which states that international and local NGOs are not allowed to conduct activities contrary to the objectives of the military emergency conditions. That is a catch-all provision that is exacerbating the humanitarian crisis. It is not acceptable that all aid has to be rooted through the Indonesian authorities, nor that NGOs are restricted to Banda Aceh. Finally, we call on Indonesia to investigate with urgency the disappearance of the human rights defender Abdussalam Deli, and the killing of his colleague, Raja Ismail. I hope the Commission and the Council will assist us in these aims. – Mr President, first of all, let me join the rapporteur in welcoming this report from the Commission. It is an important measure to regulate the quality, safety and procedures for cells and tissues used for transplants. The key is the protection of human health. I echo the Commissioner's words in congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Liese, who has ably steered a path, strengthening the protection of human health, ensuring informed consent and avoiding most of the pitfalls of previous debates in this area of human endeavour. When I see amendments put down and signed in the names of both Mr Liese and Mr Nisticò, I know that this is a measure where there has been enormous effort to bring about a meeting of minds and views. That will stand this measure in good stead. The Commission proposal was a good one but perhaps could be improved. The report to Parliament introduces improvements in some areas but perhaps left some issues needing clarification. Some of the changes may be unhelpful. The new amendments, such as the one excluding industry to which the Commissioner referred when he talked about industry's fears that trading activities might be affected or constrained, are also to be welcomed. I acknowledge that there is an issue over the Amendment 7, which included research in the scope of the directive. One could express mild surprise that it was deemed to be in order. It certainly exercised health charities and researchers. We need to consider whether it has a place in this measure or not. On the other hand there are issues that need to be clarified in the way that this measure does. We should not include organs in this measure on cells and tissues. Organs are for another day. Equally, this is not the time to permit cloned human embryos or hybrid human animal embryos to have their cells and tissues used for transplants. The demise of Matilda, the Australian sheep which disintegrated, serves as an awful warning that this is a very young area of science and experiment and, leaving aside the ethical issues, one that should not be permitted now, simply on the grounds of the potential severe and uncertain impact on human health. Another issue is the question of remunerated donation. It is a problem that arose in Mr Nisticò's report on blood. It was recognised then that we have different traditions and needs. Voluntary donation is preferable but not always possible. We will have to look again at this to see if we can find a form of words that will cover our many traditions and needs. I suspect that we will end up not a million miles from the excellent formula that Mr Nisticò incorporated in his blood and blood products directive. – Mr President, when I was in the British Parliament I co-chaired the all-party Somali group and I, and my Labour colleague, represented ports of Britain which had substantial Somali residents. That was because of the tradition of people from British Somaliland serving in the British Merchant Navy. As a result of that I learnt a lot about Somalia and Somaliland and I particularly learned what a complex area it is. I learnt that in the old flag there were five stars, one for each of the five Somali nations: French Somalia, which is now Djibouti; the British part of Somaliland, which is now part of Somalia; the British part of Kenya, which was made up of Somalis; the Italians with southern Somalia, which is now very much Somalia; and the Ethiopians in Ogaden. As has been said, the Ogadeni Somali community led to a war between Somalia and Ethiopia in an attempt to reunite the Somali peoples. It is the European Union's duty to help all the Somali nations. It is also our duty to understand their history. That is what they need now. They need political solutions that respect the five traditions, and support also for the economy, education, health, infrastructure and the security of those nations. In 1996 Somalia ranked 172 out of 174 countries on the UNDP's human development index. It was  a least-developed country. Recent history has seen wars and destruction resulting from that. We have over 100 aid agencies working in Somalia. As the Commissioner has highlighted, the European Union and the Member States are the largest donors to the area, giving some EUR 60 million in all, compared with EUR 26 million from the Americans. But let us also remember the Somali diaspora, which brings back some EUR 400 million per annum to the country. Yet the average lifespan has fallen from 48 in 1990 to 45 in 1997; infant mortality is 125 per 1 000 live births; one in eight babies dies in the first year; 4 000 women die in childbirth every year. We have problems that are no longer just a result of civil war but are due to famine, the weather, contaminated water, abysmal sanitation and desertification. Only between 10% and 20% of children, depending on the region, attend school. Women are abused. They have little, if any, educational opportunities. Nearly 100% female circumcision is practised. There is a lost generation of Somali professionals – doctors, teachers, civil servants – who fled the country before the war and have not returned. The worst of the crisis is in southern Somalia, in central areas such as Galcaio, which was devastated at the peak of the troubles and is now being rebuilt, even with street lighting being reinstalled. We should not forget the progress that is being made in Somaliland: charity maternity hospitals are being built and opened, and there is a nurse training school. In Hargeisa unskilled wages are now twice the rate they are in Nairobi. In other words, political stability in some regions is bringing recovery and the hunger elsewhere is caused partly by fighting, although only sporadically, but much more by the drought. So our task must be to support aid and sustainable development projects and to look for political solutions. We must support the transitional government. We must also remember that areas like Somaliland have voted twice now – in the 1960s and again in 2001 – in a referendum to have independence. That is their choice. They have elected governments. It shows that Somalia is a complex region. There are some areas of despair and desolation. There are also areas of regeneration and stability. We need to rescue the hungry and vulnerable, support moves to bring political stability, but also respect the various traditions of those five Somali nations so that they can come together through these conferences to live as neighbours in peace and prosperity. Mr President, we all support recycling although it must be planned sensibly so that it does not cause more environmental damage than it saves. We also all support the waste hierarchy where it is best to prevent, it is next best to re-use and recycle, and after that comes energy recovery. For recycling, we welcome public education schemes and voluntary schemes. We have no problem with the German Government if it goes down these roads, or indeed down the Scandinavian nationwide road. However, it has chosen to go down an imposed route without consideration for customers or indeed for other EU countries. It is not just a German domestic problem: it is an Austrian problem, a Belgian, Dutch, French, Luxembourgish, Italian, Swedish and British problem. All these countries have been affected by this decision. Markets and jobs have been lost and consumers are the losers, whether as a result of the import blockade or the inability to recover their deposits. There is virtually no gain for the environment in this scheme. Non-compliance with internal market directives threatens the economic success of the European Union and I very much support Mr Bolkenstein's action and hope that this leads swiftly to German compliance. Mr President, this is an important report on an important subject and I congratulate the rapporteur on her usual thoroughness and commitment. The title is significant: 'Health care and care for the elderly: Supporting national strategies for ensuring a high level of social protection'. We should all want to see a high level of social protection and learn from each other via the exchange of best practice at European level but, ultimately, it is national strategies that have to deliver. Certainly, in the United Kingdom, there is still much to do. Two weeks ago, Age Concern England held an important debate in London called 'Creating opportunity – is Europe working for older people?'. It was a privilege to be on the panel together with three other colleagues from this House. We agreed about many things, particularly the need to move such issues sharply up the agenda. We like to think of the United Kingdom as a rich country, but one in five pensioners are in low-income households; the incomes of those over 75 are lower still. Women pensioners are the worst off of all; fully 25% of women pensioners in the United Kingdom today live in poverty. Their healthcare needs are proportionately greater and therefore need addressing with greater urgency. As the number of elderly people grows, the requirement for good healthcare and care services grows also. I was told recently that in the United Kingdom there are some 40 000 fewer places available in care homes today than ten years ago. If this is true, it is not a statistic of which any country can be proud. It is a reminder in each of our countries that excessive regulation, which may well have been intended to provide greater social protection, can often destroy what it wishes to promote. This is a lesson for our committee on other dossiers too. Finally, may I record a brief message to Commissioner Diamantopoulou, whose successor has just been announced by the Greek Government. The role of Employment and Social Affairs Commissioner can never be easy, especially when it involves dealing with such difficult United Kingdom MEPs as Mr Hughes and myself. I believe she has left without having to declare who has been the more difficult, but I am sure that both of us, and hopefully all of us in the committee and this House, would wish her well in her new life back home. If colleagues agree, I would like to ask Commissioner Solbes to pass that message on. – Mr President, the Commission document on health and safety at work is a good document. It talks of the importance of health and safety at work, of the need to strengthen the prevention culture and to secure a better application of existing law. I very much agree with all of that. It portrays the problem as follows: the preventive culture of EU directives has not yet been fully understood, nor has it been applied effectively on the ground. I agree. It admits that people tend to see the Community legal framework as being excessively complex and unclear and proposes that it be simplified and rationalised. I agree with that too. I would have hoped that Parliament might have seen fit to endorse these Commission proposals, but the rapporteur has gone off in the opposite direction. He claims that, because Commission staffing has been reduced to some 40% of its 1992 levels, this indicates much lower priority within the Commission. This is nonsense. However, for some people all roads always lead to the standard socialist solution of more money, more people and more regulation. I note the rapporteur graciously referred to the joint amendment we tabled, which was the great highlight in committee – perhaps it could be the highlight of his report. Colleagues may well hope this is the start of a great new partnership, but I suspect they may have to wait a little longer for it to blossom. We will hope together for progress. Meanwhile, the rapporteur wants to extend the scope of the framework directive to propose new legislation on workplace bullying and a new directive on workplace ergonomics, strengthen the display screen equipment directive and amend the manual handling directive. All that appears on just the first page of his recommendations. We do not need more directives. I suggest his conclusions are wrong because his analysis is wrong. The UK Conservative delegation will be voting against it and we will not be alone. I would add that Ireland has just voted to allow the entry of applicant countries into the EU. If the applicant countries read the Hughes report, they may not want to join. – Mr President, in the previous debate in September last year I confirmed that health and safety was an important issue, and I commended the rapporteur on the thought that he had put into his work. I am delighted to see that he has finally arrived here so that he can hear me say that yet again. My complaint was then, and still is now, that this was a matter best left to Member States or indeed to local authorities – a point already made most eloquently by my colleague, Mr Jensen, a few moments ago. When the original Commission proposal on this subject was published, it said: "The difficulties of implementing the provisions on the ground should not be underestimated in the case of SMEs". Despite this comment the rapporteur put forward even more detailed amendments and then blithely stated in the September debate: "This is a small- to medium-sized business-friendly piece of legislation". Coming straight after the report of Mr Hughes, earlier today, suggesting a number of amendments to the proposed extension of the working time directive to mobile workers, one thing is very clear. The people who believe that the EU should legislate in the finest detail, the people who are piling on more burdens on business without even understanding that is what they are doing, are not some unelected Brussels bureaucrats, they are Britain's very own Labour MEPs. I now understand what Tony Blair means by Labour leading in Europe. When it comes to extra red tape British Labour MEPs are way out in front. In my constituency there are organisations, such as the Shropshire Playbus Association, that are very concerned that the valuable local service provided by mobile educational play areas could be at risk if the exemption specified in Article 13(1)(f) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 3820/85 on drivers' hours were to be revoked as part of any proposal to replace or update this regulation. I should like to ask the President-in-Office, firstly, if he values the work of such organisations, and secondly, if so, whether he would support the Council doing what is necessary in any revision of the regulation so that such organisations may continue to perform this important service to society. Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating the Commissioner and thanking her for her wise, practical and helpful comments today and also for the report by the Commission, which was extremely well balanced. I mean no disrespect to the rapporteur, and I hope he will forgive me for saying that I cannot make the same comments about his own report. As he knows, together with the ELDR Group, we nearly managed to defeat it in committee, but virtually none of our amendments were accepted. Yet they so nearly won through and, had we succeeded, we would not have had to trouble the House on this occasion. Needless to say, we are retabling those amendments and we hope that the full House will do justice to them in the vote on Wednesday. The sad thing about the report was that essentially it stated in black and white that there should be no opt-out at all under any circumstances and that the UK should be taken to court for alleged abuses, as if to say: my mind is made up, do not confuse me with the facts. I would like to share some facts with the House this evening. Opting out from the working time directive is voluntary: nobody can legally be forced to sign an opt-out and it is important to give people the flexibility to work longer hours and earn the overtime if they wish. Research in the UK has indicated that 2.5 million people work longer than the maximum hours stated in the directive, but two thirds of them get paid for the extra hours so would lose out if the opt-out were removed. It is true that some workers would like to work fewer hours, but not if the cut in hours means a drop in pay. More than seven out of ten of those working longer hours said they would not want fewer hours if it meant less pay. There is that health and safety have been compromised in any of these circumstances. I would now just like to talk briefly about the report by Barnard, Deakin and Hobbs, which the rapporteur referred to. He stated that, according to its conclusions, there have been abuses on a massive scale. I have to say that the conclusions say nothing of the kind. It was interesting that, when the Commission report itself came out, there was an article in the  on Tuesday, 6 January, co-authored by Catherine Barnard and Simon Deakin, professing surprise at the way their report had been misinterpreted. I would just like to quote three short paragraphs. 'It is true that we did uncover evidence of some abuses of the opt-out system. Sometimes, the opt-out was presented as a standard contract term to new staff, which they would have to take positive steps to avoid. But this was unusual. What was striking was that, for every employee who felt under pressure to opt out, we found others who wanted the right to choose what hours they worked and what salary, status and job satisfaction they gained as a result (...). We quickly discovered a gap between the rhetoric around reducing working hours and the reality of working life for many people. In one example given to us, workers in the tobacco industry could lose hundreds of pounds a week in overtime pay if they were limited to working 48 hours.' They state in the final paragraph that 'a complete ban on long hours would be unfeasible in many companies and industries or would be simply disregarded.' Those are the facts, not as presented by the rapporteur. Therefore the conclusion has to be that the opt-out must stay and abuses, if any, must go. I would hope that Members on all sides of the House could support that. Finally, I would just mention the SIMAP and Jaeger judgments. They are the important issues we should be addressing and our amendments try to focus on those issues, because we have to try to resolve the very clear problems that the Court of Justice has raised. In conclusion, I know that on the record in September UK Labour MEPs said that they voted unanimously against retaining the opt-out, but it is never too late to repent. I still cherish the hope that on Wednesday they will vote with us in the interests both of employment and employees. I thank the Commissioner for that very clear answer. I would like to extend the question – and my apologies for not making it clear to him earlier – that this is not just about potato ring rot but also about a disease called ramorum dieback or sudden oak death, which was first seen in the EU in the Netherlands in 1997, but has now reached the UK. It is found in rhododendrons, camellias and native tree species and, last month, it was found in wild woodland in the UK. It is clearly a major problem for our country. The biggest exporters of such products are the Dutch plant auctions. It has also been alleged that some operators there have been spraying such plants with fungicide in order to mask traces of that particular disease, meaning that the disease shows itself at a later stage. I would be grateful if the Commission could look into these allegations, in particular to see whether this breaches the plant health directive, because, clearly, the disease has now crossed the border. We wish it to be eradicated where it is and certainly wish too that no other country should suffer as some of our plants and woods are already suffering. – Mr President, the rapporteur spoke with great passion and great conviction about the issues involved in social exclusion. I would like to assure her – though hopefully she needs no such assurance – that such passion and such conviction is shared also on this side of the House, as I am sure it is right across the House. In that case it may be rather odd that her report had a rather rocky ride within the committee and that a large number of people voted against it. I suspect that might happen in plenary, certainly if a number of our amendments, which, as I understand, will be supported by the ELDR Group, fail to get through. It would be a shame if the report were to go down. There are just two issues I would like to highlight, both of which have already been addressed more eloquently by my colleagues Mr Pronk and Mrs Bastos. The first point is the importance of this issue being treated on a bottom-up basis rather than a top-down basis, that it is up to Member States as close as possible to the problem to address the problem most successfully. The second issue is the importance of having full employment: promoting employment is the greatest way of addressing poverty and social exclusion. The first of the eight joint actions, the eight core challenges, referred to the point of promoting employment, though it was in recital V in the report. This needs to be stressed with great vigour. In particular I draw the attention of the House to Amendment No 20, which talks about the importance of temporary work and agency work as a way of getting people into permanent full-time employment. I would also say to the Commission that I strongly agree with the Commissioner that it is important to lay the foundations for further development of the temporary work sector. – Like my colleagues in the UK Conservative Delegation, I have consistently supported the principle and the practice of employee information and consultation. In my previous job as managing director of a large UK food manufacturing company, I was very proud to lead the first such company in the whole of the West Midlands Region to achievement of the coveted Investors People Award. As has already been mentioned, earlier this month I hosted a lunch debate in Brussels with the Involvement and Participation Association for my fellow members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to share with them UK best practice and the benefits of flexibility, because that is the issue. The common position as it stands is fine, which is why I personally did not put forward any amendments to that, but the committee amendments propose yet another one-size fits-all straitjacket which would be highly damaging to managers' ability to manage and in particular to their ability to manage rapid change. If companies are held back from taking the key decisions necessary perhaps for the very survival of those businesses, their problems will get worse, which means that more employees could suffer. The UK government has asked all UK MEPs from all political parties to vote down all these amendments and to support the common position. Conservative MEPs will do exactly that, so I now call upon UK Labour MEPs to reverse the position they all took in committee when they supported these amendments and to vote with us in the interests of employment and in the interests of the nation. – As the Commissioner knows, she has made me a very happy man today, but hopefully she has made a lot of other people very happy too! I am talking about the work in the Luxembourg Council today and the Atypical Workers Directive, which has not passed further. That is genuinely very important for youth employment opportunities. Many young people and young students rely upon temporary work for employment in between term times and they will therefore be as happy as I am at the lack of progress today. My question to the Commissioner is really will she  – and I am only asking her to consider, not to commit herself – saying a final goodbye, rather than to this directive? If so, she will not only make me happier, but a lot of young people happier too. – Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for insisting on having a debate on this issue because it is indeed a very important subject. May I also thank the Secretariat for scheduling this debate, yet again, at such a late hour, even though it means that some of us who started in this House at breakfast time have already been here for over 13 hours. I must confess that I am again in contravention of the EU Working Time Directive and, as a good European, I should not break European law. I am sure I would be in the Commission's bad books by so doing. I hope I will be forgiven, at least on this one occasion. Having said that, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the spirit in which he has approached this complicated subject and the way in which he has embraced amendments from all sides, certainly including some of my own. I would make just one tiny criticism – which I hope he will not take as nit-picking, as we say in the UK – but it is a compliment to him, rather than a criticism. I felt that his original version of one of the recitals was better than the compromise. Recital D stated ‘whereas it is neither necessary nor desirable and practicable to harmonise the rules for financial participation schemes, as this would impede the flexibility of Member States' policies’. That was absolutely spot on. But, as he knows, there was a compromise with the PSE Group that stated ‘ neither necessary nor desirable and practicable to harmonise ’. That was perhaps a mistake, because there is no need whatsoever to harmonise policies in this respect. We are exactly on the right lines as we are. But that is a very small point. I am very much in sympathy with the thrust of his report. Personally I will be supporting his report wholeheartedly and I shall be encouraging all my colleagues to do the same. – Mr President, I should also like to congratulate the rapporteur on his own-initiative report, particularly because it is precisely that: an own-initiative report. He affirms, especially in Paragraph 17, that publicly funded health care systems should remain within the exclusive competence of the Member States and I very much agree with this. He highlights the need to address the issue of health problems of tourists visiting other Member States, and this is certainly a very live issue, as I know from the many letters on this subject I receive from constituents. But above all he draws attention, for example in Paragraph 3, to the significant problems regarding the long-term sustainability of public health care systems throughout the EU because of the increasing cost of advances in treatment possibilities, as well as the growing demand from an increasingly elderly population. This is a major concern. We certainly need fresh thinking on this subject and that has to include new ways of private and public health care working together. His report is a useful contribution to that debate, though I hope he agrees in turn that the contributions made in committee, including those made on this side of the House, may perhaps have made it even more useful. It is certainly now much less prescriptive, which is good. Health care is financed in different ways in different Member States and the roles of private health insurers are correspondingly different. Even the definitions of "supplementary" and "complementary" have slightly different meanings in different languages. So an absolute "one size fits all" solution for insurance is unlikely to be the answer. On the basis that Amendments Nos 2 and 3 are passed, which accept the suggestion of a Green Paper but do not dictate precisely what has to be in it, I shall certainly be calling upon my UK colleagues to vote in favour, though I shall be proposing abstention on Amendment No 16 – Mr President, I am delighted that this morning we are debating three strong reports on consumer protection and that they straddle so many different committees. That is right and proper. Consumer policy issues should not just be the prerogative of one particular committee, they should be fundamental to all our work. The comments I shall make will in essence be confined to the Whitehead report, although they will clearly have implications for some of the other reports too. Adam Smith declared that the sole end and purpose of all economic activity is consumption. The consumer is king and we in Parliament – and indeed in the Commission – would do well to remember this. The Commission report 'Consumer policy strategy 2002-2006', and indeed the Whitehead report, are both extremely positive steps in this direction. I am not one of those who automatically congratulates every rapporteur, especially, dare I say, if they come from the PSE Group, but on this occasion I am delighted to give my unqualified congratulation and support to this rapporteur for an excellent piece of work. In his usual modest way he has also said that amendments from other groups and colleagues have made it better still, and he has indeed accepted amendments from a large number of colleagues from different political groupings and other committees. I am certainly grateful for his ready acceptance of some of my own amendments, for example that a key strand of consumer policy must be the maximisation of consumer choice, that the completion of the single market is therefore a priority for consumers and not just business, that the package travel directive should be included as a priority for a review, and that countries that flout consumer protection laws should be more rapidly and thoroughly penalised. I would also draw attention to the whole series of paragraphs, starting at paragraph 5, addressing Objective 1, a high level of consumer protection, in which he notes his concern about the proposal to move from minimum harmonisation to full harmonisation measures. This point has already been picked up by Mrs Thyssen and Mr Radwan from two other committees. I totally agree this should be done on a case-by-case basis, a point he explicitly amplifies in paragraph 13 about the principles of subsidiarity, necessity and proportionality. I hope the Commission takes these points on board. I particularly admire the way the report is not just filled with good intentions. It calls for sensible, practical and concrete steps to be taken to create better consumer protection throughout the European Union. I hope the Commission will allow me to draw attention also to paragraph 44 about the dangers of passive smoking, although it might be a surprise for this to appear in this particular report. It is a basic consumer right that consumers should be able to breathe fresh air. I hope that he personally, along with the Quaestors, will play his role in ensuring this. Finally, I expect the Whitehead report to carry overwhelming support in the vote this morning. Such a verdict would indeed be well-deserved. I hope that it will also be embraced with equal fervour by the Commission and the full Council. The consumer must reign everywhere. Long live the king! .–The UK Conservative Delegation vote today reflected our considerable reservations about this report, and not just because of its mentions of the importance of tax co-ordination and the wonders of the single currency. One central task facing Member States is the full implementation of the Lisbon Council conclusions in terms of stimulating employment, essentially by boosting the competitiveness of their economies, their companies and their people. We strongly believe in social inclusion. Despite acceptance of some of our amendments, in our view this report implies that social inclusion generates full employment. We believe it is the other way round. Mr President, I would like to make a few remarks in response to Mr Hughes' observations. I would agree, as I hope all sides of the House would agree, that harassment is a serious problem wherever it occurs. It may only occur on some occasions, in some companies, with some people, but whenever it does occur it is a serious problem for those people and must be deplored and indeed addressed. By harassment at the 'workplace' we do not just mean at the traditional workplace, between employee and employee, or employer and employee, but also at places such as schools, between pupils and teachers, where cases of harassment and bullying are increasingly common. However, in all those circumstances I fundamentally disagree with Mr Hughes on his key point that wherever there is a problem the solution always has to be legislation, and that wherever there has to be legislation the solution is always legislation at EU level. We need better management and we need to pay closer attention to the issue, but that does not mean we need a legalistic approach. We need a commonsense approach rather than EU law. I agree with the Commissioner and think she is right to reject the criticism that was made of her and should continue to do so. It is true, as Mr Hughes said, that some officials in DG-Employment take a different view. There are many people and, I hope, an increasingly large group of people who will take a different view. Finally, and perhaps in a lighter vein, Mr Hughes talks about psychological harassment at the workplace. I face constant psychological harassment at my workplace, which is the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, mainly because I constantly have to address reports by Mr Hughes. I suspect that legislation is not going to stop that from occurring! . UK Conservative MEPs are sympathetic to the thrust of the Bouwman Report but have voted against Amendment Nos 13 and 14, as well as some other amendments. These amendments go well beyond the Commission's original objectives in bringing forward this proposal, and there are no grounds for suggesting that the levels of protection in the original Directive are inadequate. The removal of Member States' ability to set an upper level on the amount of outstanding pay claims to be guaranteed would go well beyond the aim of providing a minimum standard of protection to safeguard the vulnerable. The extension to six months of the minimum period of outstanding pay claims to be guaranteed would also significantly increase public expenditure and go well beyond the social aims of the Directive. We note that the UK Government also supports the Conservative position, and we are hopeful that on this occasion Labour MEPs might also accept the instructions of their home government. I asked for roll-call votes to make sure. – Mr President, as British Conservatives, we have always opposed the Working Time Directive. The idea that politicians in Brussels or Strasbourg should determine how many hours different people work across Europe is, we believe, fundamentally daft. To extend it to groups such as offshore oil workers and sea fishermen is particularly so. However, because of the special issue of over-worked junior doctors in the UK, as Conservative MEPs we voted last November to extend the directive to them. We very much hoped that this would pressure national governments – especially our own – to produce a better deal. Certainly Parliament as a whole was of similar mind, hence the Conciliation Committee on which I was privileged to serve. I extend congratulations to you, Mr President, in your former capacity as president of that conciliation group – plus Mrs Smet and Mr Rocard. I believe in the circumstances we could not have done any better, but those three played a major role in that. I should briefly like to mention a point made by some of my colleagues from that delegation. I hope other nationals will forgive me if I mention only other British colleagues, for a reason that will become apparent. The first speaker in the main meeting was Mr Hughes. I am not known for agreeing with him regularly but I congratulate him on the intensity of what he said which set the meeting off to a very good start. He was followed by Mrs Lynne – also due to speak today – who reinforced what was said with great vigour. I mention that because, when it came to my turn to speak, it enabled me, as a British delegate from a third party, to speak in support, despite the fact that all three parties have many different policies on different issues. The fact that I could say that on this issue we were speaking as one and it was a cross-party alliance hopefully helped to reinforce the overall message and the will of Parliament. One of my colleagues afterwards said that point was a powerful intervention. Certainly it was meant to be. Imagine my disappointment after the meeting when an official came up to me and said that while I was making those points on behalf of Parliament another Member also from the UK was busy shaking his head negatively the whole time that I was speaking. That will not have strengthened our case. It may or may not have made any difference but certainly it will not have done the Parliamentary delegation any good service. A few weeks later, we did the best that we could. It will be presented – as you, President, have already presented it – as "nine years". But it is, as you know, nine years, plus two years, plus one year. The UK Government will add that up to twelve years as against the 13 years which the UK Government was asking for initially. Having only got what we consider minor concessions, we can confirm that, as British Conservatives, we neither support the Working Time Directive nor its extension to any other grouping. We still support a better deal for junior doctors; we will still continue to pressure our own government to provide it, but a directive from the European Parliament is clearly not the right way to secure it. – Mr President, my colleague, Mr Menrad, has put a great deal of thought into his work and raises some interesting points concerning the perceived strengths and weaknesses of the existing directive. However, it should be noted that certain countries only implemented this directive last year and that at least one country has not yet implemented certain provisions at all. It is clear that companies and their employees still need some time to complete the learning process involved in establishing European works councils. Premature changes to the rules can only cause confusion, though it is clearly useful for the Commission and Council to take note of Parliament's views at this time. As the rapporteur knows, I believe in information and consultation. I support the principle of works councils, I share his wish for their success. However, as he also knows, I am not at all happy with certain elements of his report. I still believe it goes too far in reference to sanctions in reducing thresholds in terms of sizes of companies and – frankly – in pushing the trade union agenda as an end in itself rather than in promoting the interests of employees. For these reasons, I have tabled four amendments, for which I have already secured some cross-party support and I also propose to vote against Recitals 5 and 7, as he knows. Having said that, I thank the rapporteur for accommodating some amendments in committee and I confirm that I am still willing to vote in favour of his whole report, despite my serious concerns, if the PPE-DE Group supports two of my amendments, in particular Amendments Nos 1 and 3, as we have already discussed. In that way we could show that our own mini-European works council of a German rapporteur, a Dutch group coordinator and myself from the United Kingdom have set a good example in achieving a positive result. Following on from the question about the timetable, I should like to make a comment. Commissioner, you mentioned quite correctly that it has been helpful to have a representative from Parliament and how glad you were that Mr Howitt could be there. I am glad that Mr Howitt was there for some of the time because he was rapporteur for the Green Paper. However, I hope that you were also glad that I was there for some of the time as rapporteur on the White Paper. The intention is that I will be the parliamentary representative on 19 June, as an observer, to which I look forward. I believe that formal invitations will only be sent on 17 May, which is after Parliament has risen. It would be helpful if the invitations could be officially sent earlier. It would also be helpful – and perhaps the Commissioner could confirm this – if the invitations were accompanied by a draft of the proposals that will be discussed in June. I am sure that those who attend – and not just the observers – would wish to have as much notice as possible of the proposals for discussion rather than just find out what they are on the day they arrive. – Mr President, all of us want to see less poverty and more social justice. More jobs can provide both. More employment laws like the atypical workers' directive will secure neither. The Commission is trying to impose a straitjacket on something that cannot and does not need to be standardised. My colleague, Mr Pronk, said a moment ago that he would like everyone to recognise that Member States organise temporary work in different ways. That is absolutely right. I too would like everyone to recognise that, and we want Member States to be able to continue to organise in different ways. The very adjective 'atypical' in the name of this directive says it all. Earlier in this debate Ms Attwooll said that Amendment No 71, for example, would guard against any adverse effects. That is wishful thinking. This amendment offers some help, but the improvements are marginal and all our temporary workers, recruitment agencies and client companies will be saying the same thing – that we are still left with a directive that could cost the UK alone 160 000 jobs. I will address my final remarks to the Commissioner, even though she will probably never speak to me again. Last week the press reported her as saying that the EU had created a net 12 million jobs over the last six years and that the EU' s rigid labour market was not the main problem facing Europe's economy. It is very easy to say that there is no problem or that, if there is, then it is someone else's problem. It is a problem for all of us, but you are, with respect, making it worse. You are proposing the atypical workers' directive which, instead of promoting job flexibility, will help to kill it off. This directive has little to do with protecting the rights of temporary workers, certainly in the UK where happily they already enjoy such protection. It is notionally about protecting the jobs of permanent workers by making it more difficult for companies to employ temporary staff. The  yesterday reported on the labour market problems in Germany, describing how reform is being resisted and vested interests are being protected, all under the guise of promoting social justice. The Commission should have the guts to strip away this pretence and withdraw this directive. To encourage it to do so, the UK Conservative delegation will vote against this report. . The UK Conservative Delegation voted against the Hughes amendments for the reasons set out in my speech in the debate. However, we voted in favour of my Amendment No 23, calling for a thorough Business Impact Assessment to be carried out and published within three years of the adoption of this Directive. We did this in spite of the frankly outrageous comment by Commissioner Palacio at the end of the debate yesterday that ‘of course’ she could not accept this amendment as it would be an unreasonable administrative burden! The Hughes amendments, if adopted by Council, would place further burdens on the self-employed and on SMEs. It is therefore particularly important that the impact on such businesses is clearly identified and thoroughly assessed at an early stage, so that further revision of the Directive can be considered. – Mr President, in his eloquent introduction the rapporteur referred to the importance of focus and reasserted the importance of the word "safety" being in the title of this authority, which I very much support. I would like to stress a different word in the title and that is the word "authority", because it is vital that this is a body to which the rest of the EU can look up. That is why I tabled an amendment in committee about the location of this new authority, saying that "in order to encourage respect for EU law, it should only be located in a country within the top half of Member States in terms of the fewest cases outstanding in the ECJ for alleged breaches of EU law". This went through committee without opposition and I am surprised and a little disappointed that some colleagues today should be upset about this amendment. The point is that certain countries vote for EU laws and then quite simply ignore them. This hypocrisy has to stop. By voting through this amendment now as part of Amendment No 188, Parliament would make clear that such Member States could not expect the benefits of hosting such new agencies if they are not prepared to exercise their responsibilities. This is not proposed out of malice. This is not proposed out of mischief. It is proposed out of principle. European agencies are there to be upholders of EU law and to be an example to others, to command respect and inspire confidence. This role would be undermined if the Member States themselves are not seen to be champions of the EU laws they are supposed to uphold. We have a chance today, and in the vote tomorrow, to give a very clear signal. What signal do we want to give? Do we want to say that upholding EU laws does not matter or do we want to say it actually matters a very great deal? I urge the House to give a very clear signal, a very positive signal, to vote "yes" to this amendment and for this vote to be clear and unambiguous. . – The issue of health care and care for the elderly is an important one and of concern to us all. The report is thoughtful and well-considered. I would underline the point made early in the report that the provision of health and health care services is a Member State competence. It is important that this should continue to be the case. But all Member States can learn from each other, and in particular they need to learn in the key areas covered by this report. I was pleased that my amendments were accepted by the rapporteur as well as the full House today. The specific needs of the elderly regarding health care need much more attention, especially in rural areas. In my own country, projections are that more and more elderly people are moving to rural areas to retire. They put down roots in such communities. Long, active and fulfilled lives depend more on socialising than exercising, and it is important that as many as possible of the needs of the elderly are addressed within their local communities rather than addressed at a distance in the towns and cities. This is a challenge, but it is a challenge which must be met. . – UK Conservatives voted today against the Skinner Report, for the reasons given in my speech to the House the day before. However, despite what I said in that speech, my comments were deliberately misrepresented by subsequent speakers from the UK Labour party, presumably for the same domestic party political reasons which dictate so much of their comments to the House. Stephen Hughes accused me of regarding Safety issues as a trivial matter: I have never said this nor thought this. Peter Skinner said that I had apparently complained to the British press that people were being told they needed to be trained to go up ladders, but the only reference to training was alleged to be an amendment from me. This was also untrue. My amendment followed on from existing wording about training, and merely added that workers should be made aware of their own responsibilities for safety together with those of their fellow workers. The Socialists asked for a split vote, which retained the training reference but removed my helpful amendment. It is important that untruths are rapidly rebutted. This explanation of vote is necessary in order to correct the record. – A number of papers have been circulated to Members before this particular debate, and I would just like to highlight one from the rapporteur where he says that the only beneficiaries of the entry into force of the text proposed by the Council will be the chocolate multinationals. Whilst I respect the commitment of the rapporteur to his cause, I suggest to the House that is nonsense. This is not just a matter for big business: it is of great concern to little consumers, millions of them throughout the EU who wish for and deserve the right to choose, without having pejorative labelling applied to the product. Mr Lannoye says that he has gone back to retable some of the original amendments. I suggest to the House that this is not a time to go back – this is a time to move on, to move forward. This is a single market issue; this House should not be standing in the way of the completion of the single market but should be actively promoting it. If I could share one brief historical fact with the House concerning my own country: the first mention of solid chocolate being sold in the UK was in 1657 when a Frenchman opened a shop in London. So if it was legal in 1657 for a Frenchman to sell his chocolate in London, can I suggest to the House that, some 350 years later, it should at long last be legal for an Englishman, or indeed any other EU national, to sell his chocolate throughout the EU including the country of the rapporteur. – I rise as a member of the Mashrek Delegation, to mention to the House that since the last part-session there has been an announcement by His Majesty, the King of Bahrain, that the national parliament, which was suspended in 1975, will at last be reconvened later this year. I wonder if you, Mr President, would write to send fraternal greetings and to say that this Parliament looks forward to establishing direct contact with it at an appropriate time. Meanwhile, to share with colleagues another piece of news about that, I am sure that everyone would be delighted to hear that, in these very first elections in October, women will be entitled to stand for the first time. Mr President, I am delighted that the House has agreed to debate this important topic. I also hope that this is an issue on which the whole House can unite on a cross-party basis. The subject is not just about demographic trends in general. My oral question specifically asks for more attention to be given to issues associated with ageing. Too often, ageing is just seen as a problem; it should also be seen as an opportunity. Too often, the elderly are seen as people with disabilities and with needs; they should also be seen as people with abilities and with rights. There are many aspects to be reviewed, but in the time available I will just focus on one: the opportunity for the elderly to continue in work if that is their wish. I therefore welcome the approach taken by the Employment Task Force chaired by Wim Kok. This report refers to one of the Lisbon Council conclusions that is often overlooked, that by 2010 the target is for 50% of 55-64 year-olds to be in employment. Currently, only Sweden, Denmark, Portugal and the United Kingdom have reached this target. Belgium, Italy, France, Luxembourg and Austria have employment rates for older workers of less than 33%. Delaying the average age at which people leave the labour force is crucial. Luxembourg, Belgium and France among the current Member States, plus Poland, Lithuania, Hungary and Slovakia among the incoming Member States all have average work exit ages well below the EU average. They will be particularly stretched to meet the agreed target and their policies will have to change radically in order to achieve it. Will they grasp the challenge? But even the EU as it exists today will miss the 50% target unless it can increase the number of older workers in work by seven million over the next seven years. This means that two-thirds of the current 46-55 age group must still be active in the labour market in 2010. This means in turn a significant change, because only half of those in this group and in employment in 1991 were still working ten years later. This is the reason I tabled this question. It is a matter for Member States, but the issue is: will Member States act on these employment task force conclusions within a defined and early timetable? Will the Commission put together an early progress report to present to Parliament, ideally by the end of this year? Finally, will Member States implement all the provisions on age discrimination in the employment directive without further delay? I hope the answer to all of these can be 'yes'. – Mr President, I hope that my good friend Thomas Mann has forgiven me for not voting for the report in committee, and indeed that he will forgive me again, as he knows I will not be supporting it in the plenary. There are many points that I welcome in his report; the recognition of the need to deliver the Lisbon conclusions, the encouragement and support for SMEs and the need to improve employment of disadvantaged groups in society. But I do not accept the basic thrust of the report that one of the solutions is to strengthen the roles of the social partners. I am all for social dialogue, but this should be between employees and employers within their companies. The rapporteur confirmed the importance of SMEs as the motor of employment, but SMEs have only a tiny voice within UNICE and most of their employees do not have membership of trade unions. So within the social partners their voice goes virtually unheard, and yet the social partners presume to speak for them. There was an interesting report in the UK press at the weekend about Germany: Chancellor Schröder was apparently finding it increasingly difficult to get acceptance of much-needed labour market reforms because the social partners were blocking them. A German minister was quoted as saying 'when it becomes necessary to drain the swamp, you don't stand around asking the frogs'. With unemployment approaching 5 million in that country, the swamp is getting bigger and the need for change is very clear. So I am all for social justice and social inclusion, but the biggest enemy of both is unemployment. Governments need to do what is necessary to address this. Clinging on to outdated concepts does not help; strengthening the role of the social partners simply leads to more paralysis. If some countries wish to persist in this, it is of course up to them. But please, rapporteur, please, Commissioner, do not inflict such concepts on the rest of us. . UK Conservatives believe in the principle of works councils. But we also consider that it is for companies and their employees to decide what best works for them rather than for the EU to set out one-size-fits-all legislation. Works councils should provide a bridge between employers and employees. Over-prescriptive legislation can turn them into a barrier. Flexibility, not rigidity, is required. The one area where there is a need for greater legal certainty is the issue of confidentiality at a time of mergers and take-overs. We are no further forward on this. . – The level of ongoing unemployment in continental Europe is far too high. It is a direct reflection of entrenched labour market rigidities plus the administrative burdens on business of high costs and excessive regulation. Continual industrial restructuring is vital for a healthy economy, for the replacement of yesterday's unwanted jobs with the fresh jobs needed for the future. More regulation is the problem, not the solution. Because of our desire to see more jobs not less, UK Conservatives have voted against this resolution. Thank you, President-in-Office, for your full reply. Are you aware that whilst the Council is clearly divided on this issue, this House is also divided? There are different views, as my good friend Mr De Rossa is also aware. The fact that here you have a UK Conservative MEP speaking in support of the UK Labour Government and against the opinions of UK Labour MEPs shows that this issue is sensitive and rather complicated. I welcome your comment that you are going to reflect, but I urge you to reflect also on the phrases that you have put into this excellent document – the programme of your presidency – which I particularly welcome. On page 16 you mention the key challenges you are committed to pursuing: encouraging greater adaptability and flexibility on the part of workers and companies and removing disincentives to employment. My own view is that the directive, as drafted, would have done exactly the opposite and cut across the possibility of achieving the Lisbon agenda. Can I have your reassurance that the fulfilment of the Lisbon agenda will indeed colour your entire presidency, as I am confident it will? Good luck, Sir! – Mr President, in my previous life I ran two manufacturing businesses, one in the United Kingdom and one in the Netherlands. As the UK business grew, we invested in more people, as the Dutch business grew we invested in more machinery. The simple reason for this was that social costs in the Netherlands were just too high in comparison. I am in favour of social protection, I am in favour of the original Commission document, but I do not want to see people priced out of jobs because social protection costs become unrealistically high. That is why in committee I proposed some form of business impact assessment, so that costs and risks to jobs could be taken into account, and the EPP-DE Group supported this amendment. But I must record that other groups, led by the PSE Group, guided by my countryman, Stephen Hughes, voted this out. I accept that Mr Andersson's report is very well-intentioned, and I respect him for the work he has done, but in my view the way the report defines and promotes social convergence would drive social costs higher throughout the EU. This would put more jobs at risk and also put at risk the credibility of this House by showing how remote we are from the real world. I therefore urge this House to reject the full report and let the original Commission proposal, which was very well-balanced, stand unamended. – Mr President, may I start by congratulating the Commission on the opening words, with which I very much agree. The points about the better balance between flexibility and security and the importance of entrepreneurship are very important themes in this debate and I will refer to those in my concluding remarks. I will start by sharing a very short story about the UK, which also has relevance for this morning. In my previous life in the manufacturing business, I remember vividly a certain major retailer that was losing market share and was starting to fall out with its advertising agency in this regard. The advertising agency had a very simple message 'You are not spending enough money on advertising'; the message was fine, so they increased the amount of money spent on advertising. The company continued to lose market share and the advertising agency said: 'you are still not spending enough money'. Finally the company saw the light and fired the advertising agency. The moral of that story is that sometimes when you have a problem you do not need more and more of the same solution, you need very different solutions. That is a problem that we are facing within the EU and within Parliament at the moment. We have enough employment guidelines, the Commission's report was mildly helpful but the Member States already know exactly what they have to do. What they lack is the political will to do it. I do not believe it will help very much if we contribute to making those guidelines more detailed and more prescriptive. I agree with some of the comments of the rapporteur, and I very genuinely commend him for the hard work that he has put in, the thought that he has put in, and indeed the short timeframe in which he has done it. I agree particularly on the points he makes about tax, that it is very much a national issue and long may that so remain. However, some of the more prescriptive conclusions that he comes to and certainly the idea that, and I quote, 'there should be more comprehensive involvement of social partners that represent neither the majority of employers nor employees', do not seem to me to be a helpful step, I see them rather as a retrograde step. Finally, on the issue of flexibility, security and entrepreneurship, I note that the Commissioner is not here today because quite rightly she is at this other very important meeting, the Employment Council. I hope at that meeting, where amongst other issues they will be talking about the Atypical Workers Directive, the Commission will take the opportunity to show that it wants to promote a different message and not the same old messages that have been promoted in the past and that it too believes in entrepreneurship and flexibility and does not wish to remain mired in the past. Today is a very important day, and I look forward to that meeting going the way I hope it will. I am sorry to say to the rapporteur that much as I support some of the thinking behind what he is saying we cannot support his overall report today. – Mr President, I join others in wishing Portugal every good wish for a successful presidency. I notice that you said this particular issue was not currently on your agenda for the next IGC but if some people wished it, you would consider it. Well, I, and my fellow 35 British Conservative MEPs wish it and would like you to please consider it. I appreciate that it is a provocative question. It is meant to provoke because there is a very serious issue here that some countries do not hold EU law in the respect which it deserves. We have to find some way of putting pressure on such countries to do just that so we can reconnect with our citizens. I cannot think of a better way to do it. Can you? – Mr President, I welcome the opportunity to contribute to this debate, however briefly. I also welcome the fact that so many colleagues are pouring into the House at this moment, clearly to hear what I have to say. I wanted to contribute because, as colleagues on the other side of the House know, there are differences between groups on the important issue of corporate social responsibility. Mr Howitt made a very important observation when, at the start of this debate, he said that he had been working in parallel with Mrs Gillig on this report. "Parallel" is a very good choice of word because parallel lines are separate lines and do not meet. It is important that CSR, as a subject, should not be seen as a catch-all for everything that everyone wants businesses to do better. Also it is important that the core labour standards – these ILO standards – are given the dedication and focus needed for their implementation, as indeed the rapporteur so eloquently pointed out. Clearly there is much work, collectively, that we need to do on this. I thank the rapporteur for accepting two of my amendments in particular. One was that globalisation can be positive, creating opportunities for real growth and development. I say to Mrs Jensen that this is still very much in the body of the report. The other was that a major driver of social cohesion is full employment. All of us need to be much more positive and proactive in this regard. Finally, I would observe that the rapporteur has accepted the Commissioner's conclusions. We, across the House, will be supporting the rapporteur's conclusions. There is a real danger of consensus breaking out all over the place. I congratulate the rapporteur on her work in making this possible. . – Mr President, I wish to begin by just reminding the House of a few statistics. There are at least 16 million businesses within the EU, 99.9% of them are micro to medium-sized. There are 100 million people working in the EU in the private sector and, of these, 32 million people work in micro-businesses, which is businesses of less than 10 people; 33 million people work in small to medium enterprises, with less than 249 people. So a total of 65 million workers in the EU are in the small and medium sector, which shows that it is very important for us to be discussing the growth of such a sector. In particular, it is absolutely right that this specific initiative – growth and employment – should be discussed within the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, although it is clearly also of interest to other committees. This particular report is concerned with funding programmes, which was an important initiative from this Parliament a few years ago. But it is worth saying straight away, as confirmed at the Lisbon Summit, that the issue of the development of SMEs is not just a matter of funding. It is also very important that all of us secure the right climate for enterprise, with less red tape and less bureaucracy, to encourage SMEs and risk-takers to actually consider taking out risk capital in the first place. 1999 was the first full year of this particular set of initiatives and, therefore, as a start-up phase it should have been relatively straightforward to report upon this without being too controversial. However, there are some controversial elements in the report, essentially because of the Commission timetable in issuing its report. I have annexed the detailed timetable to the report. It shows that whereas the initial draft proposal from the Commission came out in November/December 1999, it literally took a full five months before the report came before Parliament. Then there was a further delay within Parliament, because we are not perfect in that respect either. It took over a month to allocate it to a rapporteur and then, because of the summer recess, it was not possible to programme the internal debate and discussion until October and November. Despite this long delay, there was further incompetence, dare I say, within the Secretariat because the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy under Mrs Flesch as the rapporteur had produced some very useful amendments to the report which only came to the Committee on Employment after we had voted on the report. So that again was not exactly impressive. I have agreed with Mrs Flesch that amendments from the committee today have my full support to go through unchallenged, as there are a number of useful contributions there. I should add that I asked the Commission back in August about a particular comment in the report, which stated that in August there would be some feedback from SMEs about their response to the project. However, the Commission did not reply. I asked again in October where this information was and it finally replied: "What information are you waiting for? We do not understand!" It was literally only yesterday that I received an e-mail from the Commission stating that there was such information but it had been sent to the Committee on Budgets rather than to our committee – again, not too impressive. Yesterday, I spoke in the debate on the Doorn report on SLIM concerning bureaucracy. I should like to reinforce those comments now, because the fact that this report had to go through so many different Directorates before it emerged – including legal, budgets, financial control, general secretariat, regional, innovation, employment and social affairs, research, internal market and competition – is not an impressive way of dealing with an important subject. I speak not only on behalf of this report but also, I am sure, of other reports that need to go through the same system. This is just too much micromanagement. There are too many managers involved and, as a result, the project ends up not being fully managed. Finally, I have made a few comments about the European Investment Bank taking a controlling interest in the EIF. This may be absolutely right given its expertise, but we want to ensure that these particular projects are given the priority they deserve. I am not particularly confident but we shall watch to see how that goes. I have also called for a full audit, not because of any doubt about the financial probity, but just as a basic management control system. In conclusion, may I say that the Commission has apparently already written the draft report for the year 2000. I should like to ask that we see it  so that we can make a positive contribution  in good time, rather than repeat the timing of the current report. Here we are in January 2001 debating and voting on a report that was issued back in 1999. It is already history. On such an important subject we want to deal with the present, thereby being better able to shape the future. – Mr President, may I start by declaring an interest in this debate: I am a passionate non-smoker and I wish to share my passion with other Members of the House. But I am also passionate about something else, that is, deregulation in the field of employment and the opportunity for Member States to become increasingly competitive in the global market place. The idea that we should ban not only the marketing of certain types of cigarette and tobacco products, but also their manufacture, in other words, that we ban the possibility to export, is wrong in principle and absurd in practice, given that those markets exist and flourish elsewhere. I should like to quote two brief articles from today's  for those who have not seen them. One is in the letters page and is headed "Tobacco proposal would be a slap in the face for workers". One paragraph says that if exports are banned, it will deeply affect our competitiveness in world export markets and may cost hundreds of jobs in Germany alone, maybe even cause the regional closure of plants. That is a comment from one of the leading trade unions in Germany. On the facing page is an article written jointly by the prime ministers of the UK and Spain, not about the tobacco directive but about market liberalisation, which says: "It is so important to avoid the sort of heavy-handed regulation that could drive investment and jobs out of Europe". That, Mr President, is what we are in danger of doing – we are not just stopping exports of cigarettes we are actually promoting the export of jobs. We have an opportunity today to send two signals – first, that we care very much about health, but also that we care very much about jobs, employment and deregulation. The final point I would make is a little plea to the Commissioner. We have had this conversation before, but when we vote today on the labels, can we please have a larger-scale version as posters and spread them throughout the institutions so that we are not just talking to others but also addressing ourselves. If his support cannot be strong, it can at least be mild! – Mr President, just a follow-up question. Will the sessions of the forum be held openly and in public? Will MEPs, therefore, be able to attend, as observers, any of these sessions? – I note your remarks with interest, Commissioner, and am delighted to hear that the Commission takes this issue seriously, but your role as I see it seems to be confined to reminding Member States, requesting strong action and then requesting to be informed. With respect, do you feel that is satisfactory or do you feel that the public will find that satisfactory, because these are problems that are recurring? Since I tabled this question, literally in the last couple of weeks, we have had an example in the UK of Germany once again breaking the rules by sending no less than its 13th consignment of meat containing banned spinal cord to the UK. Has the Commission no powers to do anything more than request or remind? If it does not, should it not have such powers? How much longer will it go on requesting and reminding before some action is taken by somebody? – Mr President, in my two years in this Parliament I have never received such a barrage of letters of complaint as I have about this report. I am talking particularly about whole-body vibration aspects, rather than hand and arm vibration. These comments are not just from employers, large and small, in farming, quarrying, mining, engineering and construction businesses – to name but a few – who are rightly concerned about the very viability of their entire industries under these proposals. They are also from ordinary employees concerned about their jobs if the rapporteur's amendments go through. Recently published and well-respected scientific work from Germany, Italy and the UK, as well as the rapporteur's own country of Denmark, shows no direct quantifiable link between whole-body vibration and back pain. I note that Mr Hughes maintains otherwise; not for the first time his own government disagrees with him. The above comments from constituents have two things in common: their anger that Socialist MEPs should be proposing such amendments in the first place, and their sheer disbelief that such MEPs could be so out of touch with reality. Let me be clear. The above comments are nothing to do with health and safety, issues which all of us recognise as important. They are everything to do with the rapporteur jumping to conclusions that are not supported by specific scientific evidence. The UK government is strongly opposed to the rapporteur's proposed amendments which, it maintains, would damage industry and agriculture for no benefit. UK Conservative MEPs agree, and we urge the UK Labour MEPs, who supported this report so resolutely in committee, now to support the common position, and meanwhile to support our compromise, tabled jointly by a number of political groups. I urge you all to join us in voting for sound science and sound sense. – Mr President, I should like to start my remarks by referring briefly to comments from the other side of the House, from Mr Medina Ortega, who complained about what this legislation does not do, with particular reference to social harmonisation and tax harmonisation – omissions which I personally welcome. But from our different positions across the House we should not really complain about what this legislation does not do. We should be happy about what it does do, which is to enable a European company statute to come into force after 30 long years. As has been said, this is voluntary. We do not know at this stage how many companies will be interested in starting up such companies, nor what flaws they might find in the legislation if they do. We do not know what companies might be interested but are deterred from starting up such companies, again because of flaws in the legislation. Other changes might be needed. I discussed with one of the rapporteurs, Mr Menrad, the idea of putting into his report an amendment that this legislation should be looked at again within a reasonable period of time to see what improvements might be needed in the light of experience. He was happy to support this, but very wisely suggested that any such amendment should be put into the main body of the statute report, in other words, the Hans-Peter Mayer report. On that basis I did not table any such amendment here but would highlight Amendment No 16 in the Hans-Peter Mayer report which specifically covers all issues, therefore including consultation issues. Too often EU laws get set in stone. We need to become much lighter on our feet. This should become the rule rather than the exception. Mr President, I also congratulate the Commission and the Council on the quality of their joint report, and especially the rapporteur on his own powerful report on this key issue. I trust that Member States in particular will take note that the problem of adequate and sustainable pensions is a problem today, will be an even bigger problem tomorrow, and requires action now. I particularly commend the rapporteur on the way he has worked hard to absorb amendments from colleagues from different parties, who also care strongly about this issue. Indeed I am grateful that he has seen fit to accept five of mine: on defining the objective; to provide adequate and fair incomes to older people and prevent poverty in old age; on defining the gravity of the problem; on the importance of promoting pension portability; and, in particular, on the disgrace that certain EU institutions continue to discriminate against allowing older workers to apply for jobs - a point I have raised on several occasions with Commissioner Kinnock with, I regret to say, only bluster in response. Because the rapporteur has accepted so much it would probably be churlish of me to lament his non-acceptance of my amendment declaring that secure, inflation-proof pensions for public sector workers, such as Members of this Parliament, are seen as increasingly unfair by those in company schemes that depend on stock market performance in the real world. I believe we should show that we recognise this. It is, after all, the reality. Having said that, his report recognises much that is a problem. It also seeks to focus attention on what needs to be done. In the next 50 years the number of over-65s will double from 25% to perhaps 50% of the population. In rural areas, including large parts of my own constituency of the West Midlands, the percentage could be higher still. His report deserves support from across this House. He certainly has mine. – Mr President, first of all I would like to express my real and genuine sympathy to all those who lose their jobs through no fault of their own as a result of corporate restructuring. I say that with real feeling and authority because I have been in that position myself. I have been unemployed and it is no fun. But the best way to promote job security is for companies to be successful. The best way for companies to be successful is for them to be competitive in the global market. To disagree with some people opposite, it may not look good in the newspapers but the best time – indeed the only time – to make restructuring plans is when you are strong. If you wait until you are weak, you have to take much greater action and lay off more people. That is very much a fact of life. Companies clearly have many responsibilities but their primary responsibility is to survive as an employer and to take the necessary steps in order to do that – and I do not believe it is for us in this House to lecture them on the best way to do it or to comment upon whether that restructuring is “intelligent” or not. Rather it is for us and indeed for governments to see what we can do to help, as far as is possible, avoid the problem in the first place. That means looking to see where we can reduce the burden of unnecessary regulation which adds costs to business and to see how far we can reduce the non-wage costs on business which, in turn, encourage companies to shed labour as the best way of saving large sums of money. That is the real issue which we should be debating today. Finally I would say that all too often government intervention can get in the way and make companies less competitive. We must make sure for the credibility of this House that we do not fall into the same trap. – Madam President, may I just say what a pleasure it is to be invited to take the floor at five minutes to midnight. I often think – because it is usually the case with employment legislation – that it is all a plot by the Secretariatto remind us of the folly of the working time directive, not that we need to be reminded of that particular folly on that particular directive. Regarding this one, this conciliated text is in my view a bad compromise on a bad directive. It would have been much better for both parties to have kept their original positions and for the legislation to have fallen. Certainly I voted against it; I was the notable exception referred to by my colleague Liz Lynne. I also voted against it in the conciliation committee for this reason, even though we did manage to dilute many of the dafter amendments during that committee process. As far as the UK is concerned, existing noise regulations have been well thought through and these tighter regulations at EU level are neither necessary nor appropriate. Mr Hughes mentioned the importance of business impact assessments and that they should be carried out thoroughly. I agree with that. It is significant that there has been no proper regulatory impact assessment at EU level to determine the costs and benefits of the proposed directive. Certainly there was one done by the UK which established that the costs far outweighed the benefits and perhaps that is why the EU decided not to do one. This legislation does not reflect the real world. Coming two weeks after Parliament approved the atypical workers directive, where extra costs and red tape could mean the loss of 160 000 temporary worker jobs in the UK alone, this latest directive shows that the EU continues to operate in a time warp when it comes to employment and social legislation. Finally, I would like to say that during the progress of the legislation through the European Parliament there have been three different ministers back in the UK, which may explain why the UK Government has made such a limp response to it. The UK Conservative response will not be limp. We will stand up for common sense and vote against it. Commissioner, the English translation of the question refers not to 'less-favoured agricultural areas' but to 'highly depressed agricultural areas'. There are many depressed agricultural areas – and highly depressed farmers – in the West Midlands, my home region in the UK. I would like to ask the Commissioner one question in two halves. Does the Commission agree that some Member States, including the UK, have not taken the fullest advantage of the flexibility allowed under existing CAP rules? Would he encourage all Member States to take the fullest advantage now under the new rules, which offer greater flexibility, and to listen to their farmers and their agricultural community in the process? A one-word answer will suffice. – Mr President, as it is now after midnight, I say to you, Mr President and to you, Commissioner, happy Valentine's day! This is a very good report. I say that without surprise as it is by Mrs Jensen, so of course it is a good report. However, it was a slightly better report before the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs ‘improved it’. Some of the amendments that have come through have not made it a better document. I refer to just two aspects. The first aspect – taking my life in my hands – refers to some of the amendments of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities. I strongly support women's rights. I strongly support the rights of young people, of old people, of disabled people and many other minorities. But only the women have their own committee to speak up for them. At times, perhaps, their voice drowns out some of the other groups, in my judgment. I take as an example Article 3.1(1) where the original text said: "To the maximum possible extent analysis will be gender-specific". I agree with that. It should be gender-specific to the maximum possible extent. But the Women's Committee has taken out the words "to the maximum possible extent". Apparently "maximum possible" is not quite maximum enough. I believe it was fine as it was. I use that as an example, but I am still supportive of women's rights. I have my tomato-proof suit on just in case you were thinking of doing something. The second point concerns the budget. I believe the Committee on Budgets made a reference to the budget increasing from EUR 50 million to EUR 55 million, but on the basis that this should be proportionate to the implementation. Last year's budget was EUR 50 million. Only two-thirds of that was spent; 25% of that was eaten up by administrative costs. To go up from EUR 55 million to 65 million – which is the latest amendment – is, in my view, disproportionate. It is a reflection of the enthusiasm of the committee for this particular project. Sometimes it is all too common that in order to signify the importance of a subject more money is offered to it. I should like to hope that, increasingly, colleagues could recognise that money is not just a reflection of importance, and that it is possible to vote strongly for a report without increasing the money. I fear I may have to wait a long time to see that. Given my advancing years it may be my successors who see that approach first. – Mr President, I am delighted that we are having a debate on this vitally important subject. It is clear that many Member States still have much to do to reduce high levels of unemployment. It is very easy to set targets and to make promises – as Chancellor Schröder has found out – but the jobless need action and not words. I agree with the rapporteur that job creation is a major challenge. I disagree with his conclusions that we need the Commission to examine anew the causes of low economic growth and to submit suggestions to reverse it. The causes are clear, the actions required are clear. What is needed is the political will to make it happen. There is, however, no solution to unemployment in strengthening the role of the social partners to quote the rapporteur 'in all matters' regarding the organisation of work and working conditions – though I am sure the trade unions are always looking for such an opportunity. The social partners may well have a very useful role in some countries and in some cases but, given that the majority of employment growth is coming from SMEs whose employees are beholden neither to big business nor to big unions, it is hard to see how such a move would be positive for job creation. Certainly we must all put job creation at the top of our own agendas. I earnestly hope that colleagues from all sides of the House, and indeed the Commissioner, will reflect on this when we are voting on the Atypical Workers Directive in a few weeks time. – Mr President, this is a most useful report on a very important issue. There are some parts I do not like, such as for instance paragraph 13 which promotes tax coordination. I am proposing to table an amendment on that because, as the rapporteur knows, this is a subject particularly dear to the heart of UK Conservatives. But the overall thrust of the report is very good. There is another report out today which was an annual report from the Commission, referred to in today's  under the wonderful heading "Brussels demands labour reform". To quote briefly from the article, "In its assessment of countries, the Commission will tell France that, like Germany, it must reduce 'fiscal pressure' on labour and reduce the 'administrative burden on companies'." Certainly anything that promotes labour flexibility, liberates enterprise and reduces burdens on business must be good for the economies of those countries and for employment. But it also addresses this problem of undeclared work. The higher the tax, the more the red tape, the greater the incentive not to declare work. I should like to make one further suggestion. Countries with the highest undeclared work may well be recording the highest official unemployment figures, thereby attracting the highest offsetting regional funds. This is perverse and it is in all our interests to address the problem. Reducing tax and red tape would be a splendid start. I urge Member States to follow the Commission advice and also to note the Glase report. – Mr President, I do not share the enthusiasm of my colleagues for the results of this conciliation but I am equally warm in my congratulations to both rapporteurs. They won and I lost, to my regret and possibly their surprise. We all know that if the Council had not given in then Parliament itself would have conceded rather than lose either directive. So Parliament had a weak hand but both rapporteurs played it extremely well. I congratulate them for their skill. They were helped by the early climb-down of the UK Government during both conciliation processes. It was particularly ironic that the UK Minister for Europe should have come to Strasbourg last autumn – to plead with UK MEPs from all parties to vote down the whole Ghilardotti report – to find that not only were Labour MEPs positively promoting the report but the UK representative then bent over backwards to support it as well. Politics is certainly an odd business. As colleagues know, I am a fervent supporter of information and consultation but an equally fervent opponent of a one-size-fits-all straitjacket for companies of all shapes and sizes. This directive, as amended, is more likely, in my view, to be a barrier to employee involvement than a bridge. Moving to the working time directive: in my view this is bad legislation. It could have been worse had it limited night-time driving, but I was delighted that the rapporteur finally saw reason and this proposal was removed. But it is still bad legislation in its provisional extension to include the self-employed. As the Spanish representative said, when joining other countries in registering his country's dissent from the final text, it is the first time that the entrepreneurial sector has been included in any directive. I will certainly fight to make sure it is the last. We should want to see more jobs, not less. This should not and must not be seen as a precedent. Madam President, I also commend the rapporteur, who has approached this complicated and important brief with great conviction and enthusiasm. The principle of simplifying and modernising social security rules to make them more efficient and user-friendly certainly deserves support. However, although I am sympathetic to a number of the points she raises, in certain respects I suggest that her proposals go too far. I am against Amendment Nos 1, 44 and 45, as they include references to taxation. I hear what various colleagues have said on this subject and particularly welcome the comments made by the rapporteur herself, that this regulation might not be the right place to address that. I agree with that point. Regulation 1408/71 is about coordinating social security, which derives its legal base from Article 42, which is not concerned with taxation at all. I can understand why some colleagues would wish to extend the scope of this regulation into the field of tax, but this is not a Community competence and should not become one by the back door or indeed the front door. If these amendments are passed I would hope that the Commission might still reject them. I invite the Commissioner to reflect further on this point. I am also against Amendment Nos 2 and 43 concerning payment of unemployment benefits, both of which only just scraped through in committee. The rules in Regulation 1408 must provide a balance between encouragement of labour mobility and avoidance of abuse. The term 'family reason' in the amendment is, in my view, too vague. EU citizens do and should have the right to seek employment in any Member State. For them to seek unemployment benefit in a Member State without having worked there and for the EU to endow them with rights to benefit, irrespective of individual Member State rules is just not reasonable. I understand the problem but this is not the solution. I shall be recommending support for many of the rapporteur's other amendments, but for the reasons I have mentioned above, I cannot recommend approval of her overall report. – Madam President, I would like to raise briefly a matter of serious concern to me, and perhaps to others in this House, relating to the question of discrimination. This House rightly rejects discrimination in all its forms and we receive opinions on this subject from many quarters, including the Economic and Social Committee. It now appears that this committee itself practises discrimination on the grounds of age, in that it is impossible to apply for a job there unless you are younger than 45. Madam President, may I suggest that you write to them as a matter of urgency to see whether this is true and, if it is, perhaps to threaten that we will stop receiving their opinions until they abandon such discrimination. Surely it should be possible for people to work for any institution at any age, even if they are as old as I am! . – This report was voted on under Rule 110a of the Rules of Procedure, which allows for no amendments to the report. The British Delegation of the EPP-ED Group has previously sought to amend reports which it did not support. The new rule, however, leaves no option but to vote against certain reports. The British Conservatives support the Commission document on Health and Safety at Work, which talks of the importance of health and safety at work and the need to strengthen the prevention culture and secure a better application of existing law. The Commission admits that people tend to see the Community legal framework as being excessively complex and unclear and proposes that it be simplified. The British Conservatives support this. However, the rapporteur has gone in precisely the opposite direction, proposing extension of the scope of the framework directive, new legislation on workplace bullying, a new directive on workplace ergonomics, strengthening of the display screen equipment directive and amendment of the manual handling directive. A fundamental flaw in his analysis leads us to conclude that the rapporteur's conclusions are wrong. The British Conservatives are therefore against this report. – Mr President, this is a very good report. It has received widespread approbation in the committee and I hope that when it is voted on tomorrow it will receive similarly widespread support throughout the House. The matter of pensions is a hugely important issue, and I say that not just because I have a vested interest in this matter, being close to pensionable age myself: it is an issue of increasing importance to the people, for example, sitting up at the top in the gallery there. Today's youngsters will need a pension in the future. We must remember that these generations deserve the same sort of pension security and safety and sustainability as that which we are talking about for ourselves. I really just wanted to make a couple of points: there are two amendments that we have put in for the vote tomorrow which very nearly got in through the committee and were only just defeated, and I hope that when they are re-submitted tomorrow in the name of the EPP-ED Group, the whole House will be able to support them. They are to do with recognising that pay-as-you-go schemes can no longer be exclusively relied upon to keep people's pension expectations fulfilled and also exhort Member States to sort out their tax and spending policies. It is all very well for us to wish that people should have a safe and secure pension, but for this to happen, pensions have to be sustainable, the funding has to be put in place. Anything less than that and we would be betraying the generations which are looking to us for support and we must not let them down. – Mr President, I wish to begin by saying that although I have been allocated four minutes, I should like to do my bit for the simplification and streamlining of bureaucracy by speaking for less than half that time. I congratulate the rapporteur on highlighting such a very important issue and also highlighting the failures of the Commission to get to grips with it thus far. I hope that the Commissioner will say what more is to be done to give added urgency to what is such a very important programme. However, rather than criticise the Commission more than the rapporteur has already done, rather even than refer just to the four committees involved in this particular issue, I should like to highlight one issue the rapporteur also raised, which is that it is really entirely up to us, as Members of this House, to ensure that legislation is better in the first place. He wondered to what extent legislation should delve into details and gave an example involving people holding ladders. That particular subject came up in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. It must be said that this particular committee has contributed very significantly to the extra bureaucracy that we are now passing the buck to the Commission to try and reduce. How much better it would be if that committee, and indeed all other committees, had left such legislation alone in its simpler and purer form in the first place. My final suggestion is that for us the acronym SLIM – "Simpler Legislation for the Internal Market" – should represent "Substantially Less Interference by Members". – Mr President, if the rapporteur will allow me I will start by saying where I agree with her and – if the rapporteur will forgive me – that may not take long. Of course, colleagues and I share her ideals for a better standard of living for all the peoples of Europe, for a better quality of life and for promotion of social inclusion. Where I part company is on her proposals or – as Stephen Hughes said – her prescriptions to secure that end, because her proposals will lead us further away from those ideals rather than towards achievement. Various speakers have talked about the Lisbon Summit today. That was hailed six months ago as a very important summit. Mention was made there of a new direction for Europe: moving away from the social regulation agenda of the 1980s towards enterprise, innovation, competition and employment. However, the report says something slightly different: whereas Lisbon calls for a reform of the social model, it calls for reinforcement; whereas Lisbon calls for liberation of enterprise and more flexibility, the report proposes four new or amended directives and a number of legislative initiatives. The report sets out the standard Socialist solution throughout the ages of legislation, legislation, legislation. What we need to pursue our common goals is not more regulation, but less. We do not want more burdening of business, we want less. We do not want more unemployment, we want less. The original Commission proposal was much better left unamended – congratulations Commissioner. I propose that we leave it unamended and we reject the report, otherwise we will give the clearest possible signal that Parliament is continuing to pursue the old agenda. Surely it is time to move on. . – UK Conservatives are broadly happy with the original Lambert Report, which in its initial form usefully cleaned up some technical matters. Specifically however, we have voted against Amendments Nos 8 onwards. These amendments would significantly have extended the material scope of the Regulation: this should not be the role of miscellaneous amendments. It should be specifically noted that supplementary pensions are NOT State-provided social security payments, and cannot therefore come within the scope of Regulation 1408/71. Similarly, one amendment attempts to extend the scope of the regulation to taxation: this is simply not acceptable. UK Conservative MEPs will continue to resist any amendments to any report at any time which attempt to make similar encroachments into Member State competences. – May I start by saying, Commissioner, that I was very pleased with what you had to say and I am as surprised to be saying that as perhaps you might be to hear me saying it. But given that there is a delay, which has already been deplored, I would hope that the period of that delay will be used constructively and that the Council and the Commission and indeed Parliament will reflect on how to get things as right as possible in what is clearly a key area. I was concerned to read a comment in the  last week when you, Commissioner, were in London – where you made quite an impact – about you forcing the creation of workers’ consultation committees and stating that Anna Diamantopoulou’s decision will dismay the UK Government and industry. Whilst I accept that the fact that it may dismay such illustrious bodies does not automatically make your proposals wrong, I trust that you would also admit that it does not automatically make them right either. I would like the Commission to bear in mind that at the time when Parliament put forward the amendments last April, the composition of this Parliament was indeed very different. At that time the Socialists were the largest group; happily that state of affairs no longer applies and hopefully will continue to no longer apply long into the future. But certainly the composition of this Parliament is very different and I would expect its conclusions to be different. Clearly we will continue to work in a spirit of constructive consensus but the epicentre of that consensus has moved sharply. So finally I would say that when the second reading comes up, if we are serious about creating jobs, if we are serious about keeping our industries really competitive, if we are serious about encouraging enterprise, then some of us may feel we have gone too far and that it may well be time to draw a line. – Commissioner, I very much welcome your comments. They are very wise, as so often. I particularly like the way you have stressed yet again the importance of voluntary initiatives, which many of us believe are so crucial to the success of CSR, and the way you have highlighted that usage of CSR is indeed mushrooming. I am sure you welcome, as all of us hopefully in this House will, the announcement in yesterday's that a number of business leaders will be launching a CSR academy in INSEAD Fontainebleau this coming Friday. It shows that business has already got the message, which will now be cascading through more and more levels of business. We should support you and the work that you are doing, and make sure that we recognise that "voluntary nature" is writ large in everything we do from here on. – Mr President, Mrs Smet referred to the fact that a majority in the PPE-DE Group were in favour of including the self-employed. I am sure that is true. But I am sure she would also agree that there is a significant minority who take a completely opposite view. This morning I chaired a press conference here on the subject of burdens on business. I was joined on the platform by colleagues from Austria, Finland and Sweden – Members from other countries would have come if they could have – who much shared the views which I will now share with the House. Since the publication of the Hughes report, I have been personally bombarded with complaints from the UK Removers' Association, the Confederation of Passenger Transport, the Road Haulage Association, the Freight Transport Association and the International Road Transport Union, as well as small local haulage companies and self-employed lorry drivers. They are united in their horror at amendments that would put UK operators out of business, and in their amazement that these proposals are coming from a UK MEP. There is no evidence that self-employed lorry drivers, who rely on their own health and, on the safety of their vehicles for their day-to-day business existence, are in need of more EU legislation to make them more safe. There is no evidence that Member States, when they agreed the common position, were unmindful of their health and safety responsibilities. There is no requirement on Parliament to tighten up this legislation now. The rapporteur's amendments would lead to lower earnings for professional drivers, increase road congestion and pollution and raise transport costs. Given that UK hauliers are already paying the highest fuel taxes in the world, these proposals would be the last straw for many in the UK road haulage industry. They also show no understanding of the needs of the industry, or its employees. These last three sentences are not my words. They are the words of the UK Road Haulage Association. UK Conservative MEPs will be rejecting all the Hughes amendments. We shall not be alone. – Mr President, I would also like to concentrate on this issue of category of animal labelling. The original proposal called for labelling as steer, heifer or young bull, which would be sexual discrimination. But recently I was staggered when the Commission – just as Mrs Doyle has said – reported it had not finally decided on the precise terminology! This effectively means they are asking Parliament to give them a blank cheque to determine what category of animal means after we have voted on whether or not to include it. This is very sloppy, very amateur and unacceptable as a way to treat this House. It is not even a food safety issue. It is extra bureaucracy and red tape – which is probably why my own government in the UK has supported it. But it is not in the interests of consumers, nor of the industry and, specifically, it is not in the interest of small abattoirs which would have the greatest difficulty in dealing with it. I therefore ask the House to support the deletion of category of animal as a compulsory labelling requirement, just as it did on the first reading. If countries wish to include it voluntarily that is a matter for them. Assuming we vote for deletion, I would ask the Commission to take note that we shall not be moved on this issue. So they know what they have to do. Finally I ask the Commission and the Council to take note that we welcome the principle of labelling beef by country of origin and that we call on the French presidency to set an example by making an immediate commitment to accept all beef so labelled from  EU countries and let the consumer decide. Mr President, I thank the rapporteur for his kind mention of my Amendment No 11, which referred to Article 6, paragraph 5a (new). This called for Commission officials responsible for non-payment in due time to be named in the official Parliamentary record after a three-week deadline. The purpose of this flowed from an experience of one of my constituents in the West Midlands who had to wait for over a year to get paid his due from - I have to say - the Agriculture DG rather than your own, Commissioner, but who none the less came across two particular individuals who were not only incompetent but also unhelpful. They know who they are. I think it is appropriate that other people should know who they are. So this amendment was not tabled out of malice, but out of experience and a desire to be helpful, in my usual style. I was pleased that in your opening remarks you said that, perhaps as a result of this amendment, it is your intention to speed up decision-making. But I was concerned about your follow-up comments when you said that we have to take note of the possibility of enlargement slowing things up, that we still have to take care of evaluation, and so on. There were too many 'buts' from my point of view. I have to say gently, but firmly, Commissioner, that those are fine words but we shall be watching you. It is important to say that this should go through at first reading, despite what I have just said. I agree with the rapporteur that this is an important issue. To help it on its way the PPE-DE Group is calling for a roll-call vote on this particular amendment but will then abstain so that the amendment will fall. Hopefully then, the report will go through but we will have put down a marker. As MEPs we are each held accountable for what we say, what we do and what we fail to do. This is as it should be. But I must say to the Commissioner that such a policy should not just apply to us; it should apply to everyone in authority and especially to those in public service. Some Commission officials clearly believe that it does not apply to them. They are quite wrong. If they fail to learn, then I am confident that Parliament will put forward another helpful amendment in due course that will not be voted down. Today and tomorrow we will have given a warning shot. If this fails to work, we shall use live rounds. UK Conservatives welcome the principle of labour markets being open to all, with access to all, as central to the Single Market. However, we have voted against paragraph 15 of the Nobilia report, as the idea of setting up a European framework of incomes policy and social security cuts directly into Member States' competences. We have encouraged colleagues from other parties and groups to follow our lead in rejecting this particular suggestion while supporting the report overall. – I very much welcome your remarks, Commissioner. I would like to pick up on just one point, when you said ‘Member States must make much more effort to enable employees to stay longer in employment’. I agree with that. My question really is: what is the Commission, rather than Member States, doing, and in particular what are the EU institutions doing, not just to allow people to stay longer but also to employ older people in the first place? My specific question is: is it true that there are still some EU institutions that have age barriers so that if you are over a certain age, you cannot be employed by them? Have those barriers come down yet? If not, when will they come down? – I am intrigued by your replies, Commissioner. Firstly you say that a lot of your evidence is based on what CIETT has said to you. Certainly CIETT have said to me that they are appalled by this directive, and I will be having further conversations with them on the basis of your reply today. You also say how temporary work is flourishing in the Netherlands. My information is that the temporary work sector in the Netherlands has declined since their domestic law changed. The Confederation of Netherlands Industry and Employers, the VNO-NCW, wants to reintroduce flexibility. It has had several meetings with me asking whether I can get further support for my amendments in that respect. You say that the directive is based upon all available information. Last week, Birmingham City Council, one of the major local authorities – not just in my region but in the whole of Europe – said that it will be reviewing its use of temps which currently cost EUR 20 million per year. We are talking about thousands of jobs. The reason for its review is your directive. In the light of this latest evidence, will you agree to review once again this damaging directive before it does more damage to employment prospects throughout the European Union? – Mr President, the Commission report, which I have read in great detail, says: "In general terms Directive 92/85/EEC has been well implemented by the Member States and this is reflected in the low level of complaints about the rights of pregnant workers received by the Commission". The rapporteur has set this all to one side, effectively saying it is irrelevant, claiming that the original directive just did not go far enough. I like some of the suggestions in her report. I congratulate her for the enthusiasm with which she has pursued her agenda. But in general it is not a health and safety agenda. It is very much a traditional socialist agenda. Firstly, her report aims to harmonise social policy across the EU rather than leave the detail to Member States – a point made with great force by Mr Olle Schmidt earlier in this debate. Secondly, it wants to improve the terms and conditions of employment for pregnant workers and new mothers by way of extra maternity leave and specified minimum pay levels. Neither of these are really health and safety issues. She is proposing solutions for which there is no health and safety problem. As British Conservatives we confirm our concern about health and safety for all workers, especially vulnerable groups. We confirm our commitment to subsidiarity regarding terms and conditions of employment. But we also confirm our concern to help more women into jobs rather than putting up further barriers to female employment. Hence we urge the House to reject the report. –I congratulate my French Conservative colleague, Mme Hermange, on her imaginative and constructive report. Conservatives in the UK have voted in favour. Member States need to be much more proactive in recognising the special needs of the disabled, and we hope that they will very much take on board the thrust as well as some of the specific ideas in this report. However, we urge that the report must not be used as a lever to try and harmonise social security benefits across the EU: this has to remain a Member State competence. We particularly applaud two firsts today – the appearance of the report in Braille in three languages, and the use of sign language in the debate. The EPP/ED Group is not just talking about the needs of the disabled: we are actually doing something positive about it. – There is much to be welcomed in this report and the messages that it is trying to give and I would join others in congratulating Mr Menrad on the skill with which he has put his report together. As British conservatives we share the concern expressed throughout this House that the high level of unemployment in the EU as a whole is indeed a major problem and that a significant decline has to be the aim. Specifically we welcome the references to equal opportunities including the old as well as the young unemployed and for the need to promote employment of the disabled. We welcome the comments of the EMAC committee that the need for administrative costs and taxes and charges on SMEs to be reduced should be particularly stressed as these represent one of the biggest obstacles to growth in employment. We also welcome the general call for a tax review for reductions in fiscal and social security burdens plus red tape, all of which increase unemployment and bear down on jobs. However, we do not accept one key conclusion about the single currency, where it is stated to be fact that the implementation of economic and monetary union creates a good climate for new jobs. It is not a fact. The experiment has just begun and our views on the single currency are well known. Finally, we do not accept that it is for the EU to lay down prescriptive rules for Member States on the key issue of unemployment and we regard as very ominous some of the suggestions from Members opposite this morning that the guidelines should become reinforced or indeed binding. Different problems in different Member States require different national solutions to create the right climate for their businesses to create jobs. So, if and when these guidelines become rules, dictating to national governments what they must do, then we would oppose them. Madam President, I would like to confine my remarks to the Hermange report, and start by saying this is not the speech that I had intended to make. I had hoped to be in a position to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report. It was an excellent report but by the time it came out of our committee earlier this week a lot of the more excellent parts of it were unfortunately removed. What is left is still very useful, very positive, but it is a pale shadow of the excellent and very thorough work that she had put in. Unfortunately her amendments were voted out by the PSE Group who were there in strength on Monday. Unfortunately, apart from herself and one other Group Vice President from the PPE-DE Group, I was the only representative of our Group there. I have no quibble with the Socialists for what they did in pursuing their agenda. They happen to believe they are right in saying there should be no legislative changes and I am not going to debate that particular point now. I congratulate them for their single-mindedness and the efficiency with which they pursued it. However, I do say to our colleagues, particularly our absent colleagues from this side of the House, that if we care about employment, as we do; if we care about unemployment, as we do; if we care about the social injustice that flows from unemployment, as we do; then we must be prepared to make this area a priority. Although there is work simultaneously in other Committees, we have to make certain that we can stand up to be counted, so that our view may prevail in these meetings and so that we can drive change. Change is important on the issues of employment guidelines; I was delighted that the Commissioner again reinforced the importance of the Lisbon Agenda, to which all sides of the House have agreed. However, if we are to deliver the Lisbon Agenda, it is not good enough simply to say that the guidelines will not change before 2006. Similarly, it is not good enough to say it is entirely up to Member States to make changes and implement the guidelines. The guidelines need to be strengthened and refocused and there is a lot of work both to do and to undo in this House in order to give more impetus to the Lisbon process. Finally, I would like to thank Stephen Hughes for saying that he is in full agreement of an oral amendment, which I believe the rapporteur will also support, concerning the importance of elderly people, which I will be proposing later this morning. I am delighted to have that agreement; I hope that augurs well for our relationship in the coming mandate. I know that Stephen Hughes hopes to be back; I also hope to be back, but next time with more support. Mr President, as I stated earlier, I have a very short oral amendment to Amendment 5 that is acceptable not only to the rapporteur but also certainly to the PSE, ELDR and Green Groups. After the phrase 'facilitating the access of unemployed young people to their first job', we would like to add 'and also the employment/continuance in employment of older people'. Mr President, I congratulate my West Midlands colleague on the excellent work she has done as Parliament's rapporteur on this vitally important topic. The United Nations agreed in 2001 to consider proposals for an international convention to promote and to protect the rights of people with disabilities. To date there have been six separate UN treaties on human rights. The next convention on the disabled should provide the seventh. This report sets out some key principles that we trust will be taken on board in the process. Specifically, it calls for the abandonment of the medical model, which regards disabled people as a problem, and instead recognises that disabled people have rights that should be enforced. I call on colleagues from all political parties and groups to vote this report through unanimously. This House should speak with one clear voice, pointing out that the needs and the rights of the disabled are above party politics: they matter to us all. But this is only half the story. We should not just vote and then move on to other issues, believing that our work is done. The vote tomorrow should be seen as a commitment to drive for real change at the UN, in the EU and in our Member States. Today we talk about the rights of disabled people. Tomorrow our vote should be considered as a pledge to act; a pledge that we shall work together with vigour until these rights are secured. . – Mr President, may I start by saying how much I welcome the Commissioner's remarks, and also those of the Danish Presidency. The concept of putting employment in a central place in the Presidency programme is absolutely right and sets exactly the right tone and example not just for us but indeed for successive presidencies. I would like to make some general remarks and then touch on my report. Certainly it is fair to say that generally, Member States and this Parliament too often skate around the important issue of employment. There is much talk but little action and such action as there is often unhelpful. Certainly my own country sets a rather poor example in this respect. Last year 4 600 employment regulations were introduced. That is one every 26 minutes. That is hardly the way ahead. But it is not enough for us to have separate programmes and projects, welcome as those may be. It is not enough just to set targets whether for young people, women, the long-term unemployed etc., and then sit back and watch. It is not enough to focus so firmly on job protection, trying to keep current jobs alive even when the market has moved on. We need to focus on job creation, which means liberating enterprise. We need to recognise that the greatest engine of employment growth in all our countries is the sector called 'small and medium-sized enterprises'. We must help them succeed and thrive and not hold them back. We need to realise that full employment helps create social inclusion and not the other way around. The Lisbon Council said, and I repeated this in my report, that we need to encourage a regulatory climate which is conducive to investment, innovation and entrepreneurship in general. Two years on, we have simply added to the burdens on business, and high unemployment in continental Europe is our own fault. I am heartened, however, by the lead that the Danish Presidency is trying to give and I would like to thank Minister Frederiksen in particular for a most helpful letter that he sent me on 18 September. I am sure he will not be embarrassed if I share with colleagues just one paragraph which is very pertinent to our topic of discussion today: 'My clear stand is that the European Union should only step in with legislation where there is an obvious need for such regulation and, in such cases, only to the necessary extent. There should be room for manoeuvre at the national level and if regulation is introduced it should, in my view, to the highest possible extent, be in the form of framework directives rather than detailed rules. There should also, wherever possible, be a freedom of choice as to the method of implementation as is, for instance, the case in connection with the open coordination method in the employment and social field. Finally I would like to emphasise that I also attach great importance to the principle of subsidiarity.' Those are extremely wise words and we all look forward to them being translated into action. Similarly, the comments from Commissioner Prodi back in July saying that the intention was to simplify regulation by at least 25%, and to do that with all speed, is also to be welcomed. Again, we wish to see some flesh put on those particular commitments as soon as possible, preferably again under your leadership and presidency. As far as the growth and employment initiative is concerned, I was delighted that this was approved unanimously in committee and that we had made some progress in becoming lighter on our feet. The first report on this multi-annual programme was in January 2001. The second year's report was made only 11 months later, and this year the report is actually in October. Next year I would like to make it earlier still, and I would look for the earliest possible feedback from the Commission to make this possible. Specifically, however, I would like to point out how much I welcome the Commission's cooperation in providing information and updates at regular intervals. I welcome the progress that has been made and in particular the way that the programme has been managed and has developed. I would like to see some clear responses and some action regarding the proposals made by the Parliament both last year and indeed this time around. Very simply, I would like to see the next Commission report show that it has not only read Parliament's report but has actually responded to it. This means including a fuller analysis of certain aspects of the initiative and also the winding up of the Joint European Venture, the JEV Programme, in its current form. I am reminded that at the end of the debate in December on exactly this subject, Commissioner Liikanen accosted me just after he finished speaking and asked whether the Parliament agreed with winding up the JEV Programme, because this was what the Commission very much wanted to do. I told him that Parliament did indeed want to see the programme wound up. He said he was very relieved to hear that and would now get on with it. So far, I have not seen much action in winding the programme up. The Commission needs to be much quicker and lighter on its feet on such issues, but then, so do we all. – The Commission has proposed an amended directive on health and safety at work. This report suggests it should be longer and more detailed. UK Conservatives believe that we should vote against it for that very reason. This is not a question of whether or not health and safety at work is an important issue. Of course it is. It is not a question of whether or not the recommendations in the report are sound. Many of them are and Peter Skinner has put a lot of thought into his work. It is a question of how the European Parliament should be spending its time and be seen to be spending its time. It is a question of what Parliament should be looking at as its priorities. It is a question of whether it should be for the Commission and for the European Parliament to prescribe the fine detail of people’s working and waking lives. There is a problem in the UK, but not confined to the UK. The EU is seen to be interfering. The European Parliament is often seen to be interfering even more. It is not seen as focusing on the big issues. Our constituents ask us why they should vote for anybody at the European elections. They ask: what are you doing for us? What shall we answer? We have the opportunity to tell our people that we do care about the big issues that they care about, that we can help deliver a better peace, security, prosperity, environment and quality of life – issues that can genuinely be helped best at a European level. Or we can answer that the EU, through the Commission and Parliament, is about deciding whether or not it should be legal for one person to stand at the bottom of a ladder holding on to it while another person climbs up it. This is the issue that we are discussing today. Let us oppose this latest example of red tape from the top. At some time or other, Parliament must give a clear signal as to its true sense of purpose, its true priorities. I say: Let it be now. – Mr President, this is obviously a very important issue that needs to be addressed with some urgency. Not only do consumers need to be reassured, but the industry also needs a climate of certainty within which to operate. May I say that I speak with a background in the industry, though since joining this House I have of course severed all ties with it. In my previous life I was managing director of a snack food company that made tortilla chips. It also made an excellent British delicacy called pork scratchings – which I just toss in so as to keep the interpreters on their toes. Tortilla chips are made of 100% American maize; and certainly when our customers asked for guaranteed GM-free identity-preserved maize, we had very great difficulty in securing that. All the tests we did, in testing that was widely and commercially available, showed even such maize occasionally contained between 1 and 2% adventitious GM material. So to those such as Mr Bowe who say 1% is a target that can easily be met, I say from experience that it cannot easily be met. It is a very challenging target. I believe that the industry has accepted that target, but with some trepidation. If that target is reduced, what is quite likely to happen – because industry will not meet it – is that increasingly it will just label everything 'May contain GM material' – which completely undermines the purpose of this labelling. That is the first point I would make: the target is already tough. The second point regarding a review is that the industry needs certainty: so constant changes every 12 months are no good for the industry, and indeed confusing for the consumer. The final point, going back to a point that Mrs Jackson made to begin with, is that we must ensure, when labelling comes in, that equal rules are applied with certainty across the EU. As we approach a new millennium, maybe we can start a new trend towards ensuring that such laws will be universally enforced and applied. – Madam President, I would like to compliment Mr Howitt on the very considerable work that he has done on this report. As he is aware, many of his colleagues have not been idle either and much of the work that we have done has been, as a result of the work of Mr Howitt, to try and unscramble or reshape his particular report. Certainly, in committee we have worked well together across the groups and have produced compromise amendments that some of us can live with, some more easily than others. Our basic position is that, yet again, we see being proposed today, the standard Socialist solution to every problem: legislation. The irony is that on this particular occasion it is being offered as a solution to an area for which there is no problem in the first place. Corporate social responsibility is something that is very much on the up, it is very strong within Europe. Europe is giving a lead on this and that is to be encouraged and supported. As a group, obviously we support the very concept of CSR, but we do not welcome legislation which would stifle the very initiatives that we are trying to foster. This represents not just the view of governments, but also of businesses across the EU who have supplied input to the rapporteur. We have tabled and re-tabled some amendments. Amendment No 1 is key and needs to pass if the group line will be to support the report. I hope that many of the other amendments which failed by one vote in committee, will also secure the support of the House today. We welcome the idea of some sort of stakeholder forum where companies can bounce ideas off each other and share best practice, but do not see this as a forum which will lead to the signing-up of agreements. Finally, I particularly welcome the position taken by the Commissioner and would thank her for the letter that she wrote to my colleague, Mr Pronk, last month which said that the Commission has stated that the CSR is essentially a concept whereby companies decide voluntarily to contribute to a better society and a cleaner environment. The Commission maintains this opinion which has been confirmed during the consultation process on the Green Paper. I trust you will note that the final report invites the Commission to bring forward legislation and I hope this is an invitation which you will very politely, but very firmly, refuse. – Mr President, the rapporteur has come a long way in recent weeks in terms of dumping some of her more extreme amendments. However, I take little comfort from this. I hope the rapporteur will not take this personally, as I know how much thought and work she has put into the report. However, in my view, the amendments that remain are neither necessary nor helpful. This is not just my own view. I am delighted to see the extent to which Mrs Lynne echoed this view so powerfully a few moments ago. In the words of the UK Health and Safety Executive, the body set up to give the UK Government the expert and impartial scientific advice so necessary when dealing with such issues, these amendments provide "no benefit for health and safety and their sole effect will be to place unnecessary and unwelcome burdens on industry, particularly on small firms". The Executive advises us to oppose most of the Socialist amendments. Independently, UK Conservative MEPs had come to the identical conclusion. One of these is Amendment No 18, which I see the trade unions are supporting, while curiously claiming that many employers support it, too. I have not come across a single employer who supports this. It will be interesting to see whether UK Labour MEPs vote as their government has advised or their trade unions have instructed. I suspect the answer will be no surprise. We shall be supporting the amendment to exempt music from the directive, an amendment originally conceived by my colleague Mr Pronk. However, that still leaves us with the problems facing industry if other amendments also pass. It is very telling that in the week EU leaders are in Barcelona, calling for EU businesses to become more competitive, and on the very day that the UK Prime Minister, Mr Blair, is spinning the line that he is so much against red tape, his Socialist MEPs continue to pursue the same old agenda, regardless of the impact on jobs. I urge them, even at this late stage, to vote against these amendments, to vote for jobs, to vote for reform and to vote for Barcelona. . – This is Parliament's second report on the growth and employment initiative which is a multiannual programme. But it is also, perhaps unusually, the second one this calendar year and the reason for this is that the 1999 report was delayed until January of this year in essence because the Commission had been somewhat sluggish – a point I recollect I observed in my speech in January. This year, I am delighted to say that the Commission has produced a very thorough and generally much better report and I would like to thank them for the cooperation they have shown. Ironically, the timing has been more of a problem this time around with Parliament and that is partly because the Industry Committee decided that it wanted to produce an opinion and wrote to the Employment and Social Affairs Committee and asked if the vote in committee could be deferred. The vote was deferred and then the Committee on Industry decided it did not want to produce an opinion after all. But these things happen. Anyway, I would like to thank colleagues in the Employment and Social Affairs Committee for their amendments which have generally improved the report substantially. I would like to thank the Economic Committee for their opinion which the committee fully supported and which is utterly embraced within the body of the report, and I would also like to thank the Employment and Social Affairs Committee for adopting this report unanimously a few weeks ago. Parliament clearly hopes that its views as expressed in this report when voted on tomorrow will be of genuine help to the Commission and the EIF in determining any programme changes for the coming year, in which case the report each year needs to be presented annually in good time well ahead of the year to come so that it can influence what happens in the year to come. The challenge for everybody in the year 2002 is therefore to present the report in the November plenary rather than in the December plenary. The Commission can help, as I hope they will, by speeding up the inter-service consultation which still seems to be a rather dozy process. I have it on good authority that the Commission's own report rested in certain DGs in-trays for several weeks before being lifted out so progress can be made there. It can also help by sharing with Parliament the quarterly information from the EIF and I thank the Commission for agreeing publicly in the Employment Committee to do this. This will be very helpful, but Parliament can certainly help in sharpening up its own act in terms of getting the timetable much sprucer next time around. Meanwhile, I would just like to highlight three points from the report: paragraph 13 where we would like to see in next year the Commission report much more concrete evidence of the employment gains that this multiannual programme has produced, not because we doubt what those employment gains might be, but we would like to see some hard data next time around. On paragraph 14, there are a number of references to other stages in the development of SMEs in their business cycle. We would like attention to be paid to this too. Finally, to go back to the earlier part of the report, in Recital F, where a deliberate comparison is made with the United States, because there, less regulation allows for a much more entrepreneurial spirit. In the EU we believe that we have to get a much more similar mindset to America in the way in which we approach SMEs. I note with great interest the Minutes of the Industry Council meeting on 4 and 5 December, which proudly proclaimed real progress under the Belgian presidency towards "better practices geared towards elimination of red tape". If this is true it is most welcome. I want to believe it. I would love to see the evidence. Certainly we all have to do our best to make it true. SMEs currently account for two-thirds of all workers – the majority of all workers employed in the European Union. But European employment laws are substantially shaped by the social partners who represent the big employers and the big trade unions but the minority of the workers. We all need to recognise that SMEs are the biggest employers overall, that SMEs are the biggest engine of growth for the European economies. It is not enough just to say that we have looked after SMEs, that we have the employment and growth initiative. It is a great help but we have to do much more. – Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his excellent and encouraging remarks and the determination to make Lisbon happen. Lisbon is certainly very much about competitiveness. It is very much about jobs. Jobs will create greater prosperity and, therefore, in turn more social cohesion. Yesterday I clashed briefly with Commissioner Diamantopoulou at Question Time on the atypical workers directive. I do not wish to revisit the various points made there, except to say that I would like to clear up a misunderstanding which is relevant to this debate. I mentioned that Birmingham City Council – a socialist-run council, one of the largest employers of temporary workers in the UK – has decided to reduce in number the thousands of temporary workers it employs. And I mean 'decided to reduce' already, as a direct result of the proposed atypical workers directive. The suggestion from the Commissioner, possibly because of the interpretation, was that this was to do with the costs of insurance. It was directly linked to the costs of extra pay for the temporary workers and, moreover, the costs of the extra red tape involved in employing temporary workers. As a result of that, thousands of workers will lose their jobs. If that happens just in one council, it can happen throughout the European Union. I am asking the presidency to ensure that the whole Commission accepts the importance of competitiveness in generating jobs, and the need therefore to promote competitiveness and not labour market inflexibility based on out-of-date dogma. – I thank the Commissioner for his reply. Following on from the Van Buitenen affair and the Commission's fairly lamentable reaction to it, is there not a case that these disciplinary boards – and especially those called for whistle-blowers – should be independent of the Commission altogether? .  Mr President, there are no substantive points that the committee wanted to make on the substance of this debate. However, I would like to make a more general point, particularly with relation to the censure motion that will be debated tomorrow evening and the general discharge point, criticising the Commission on the disgraceful way that European funds are being managed under its control. We have all been amazed to see a whole succession of whistleblowers come forward to Members of this Parliament complaining about the way they have been disciplined and how large amounts of public funds have been disbursed by the Commission. My colleagues will certainly be voting against the discharge of the Commission's budget, as we have consistently throughout this Parliament, and this would certainly be my recommendation. It seems to me that electors across the EU will have no faith in any of the EU institutions – whether Parliament or Commission – until the terrible cases of fraud and mismanagement are firmly and severely dealt with and the people responsible in the Commission – Commissioners and Commission staff – take responsibility for the gross mismanagement that has occurred, and resign from their positions in the Commission. – Mr President, I also wish to thank the Chairman and rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Redondo Jiménez and Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, who have been excellent in the way they have handled this committee. In particular, I thank them for allowing the committee to visit Northumberland, in my region, where the disease originated. I do not have time to cover all the issues now but I want to point out in particular that it is very likely that the disease was caused by illegal imports of meat. One of my great concerns is that, although this is well known, we still do not have proper controls in place at our ports and airports to prevent further illegal meat imports. There is much anecdotal evidence in the UK that large amounts of illegal meat are still entering the country. I would ask the Commissioner to address that in his response tomorrow, because it is a time bomb waiting to go off. The disease could easily happen again anywhere in Europe. People were particularly grateful to have the opportunity to submit their comments to the committee members in person. Never again must we see the enormous funeral pyres all over the landscape of the north-east of England, which had such a devastating effect on the tourist industry and all related industries, not just agriculture. Above all, despite the efforts of some Members of this Parliament, I hope that we will learn the lessons from the outbreak of this disease and ensure that it never happens again. – Mr President, on a point of order I should like to draw the attention of the House to a very serious incident which occurred yesterday in my constituency of Sunderland, in England. A fruit and vegetable wholesaler had his premises raided by police and trading standards officers, who seized the weighing equipment which he used to dispense his produce in the traditional British units of pounds and ounces. Apparently this is now in contravention of an EU directive, although there is a legal doubt about this. I hope the President will join with me in condemning this extremely heavy-handed reaction and write to my constituent offering the full support of the House in his fight against this nonsense. If Members are wondering why the EU is so unpopular in the United Kingdom, it is because of incidents such as this. . Conservative MEPs fully support the fight against terrorism and all the means which can be deployed to meet this end. We are aware of the fact that considerable negotiations have been underway between the European Commission and the US authorities regarding passenger information. We are satisfied that the agreement which has been reached provides the right balance between privacy and the means of protecting our lives and liberties. Whilst we understand that passengers may find this inconvenient from time to time, recent events have shown that we must all remain alert and vigilant. We are all in this fight together. – Mr President, I agree with many of the comments that have been made so far by Mrs McKenna and Mrs Maij-Weggen on the situation in Burma. However I would also like to refer to the specific case of a constituent of mine, which provides a good example of the brutality of the present Burmese authorities. In September 1999, James Mawdsley, from the north-east of England was sentenced to 17 years' solitary confinement in a Burmese prison. His mother is currently travelling to Burma hoping to see him. His crime, according to the Burmese authorities, was to enter the country and attempt to draw attention to the human rights abuses taking place there. The charges against him were trumped up. For example, he was alleged to have entered the country illegally and yet British embassy staff have seen his passport, which is stamped with a Burmese immigration stamp showing that he had arrived completely legally. British Government ministers and staff have been making constant efforts to draw the attention of the Burmese authorities to his plight, but with no success. I ask Parliament and the Commission to do all they possibly can to secure his release. . – Mr President, I thank the Commission, all Members, and the industry and user groups who have taken an interest in this subject and who have sent me many contributions about their problems, suggestions as to how they might be resolved and the difficulties with the original proposal. If the Commission was honest it would agree that the original proposal it presented to this House had many problems, particularly related to the retrospective element of the proposals. I come from a country where it is generally regarded that retrospective law is bad law, that people should always have the certainty of knowing under what rules and regulations they perform their duties. To make something retrospective and apply to what has happened in the past is bad. Thankfully we have managed, between us, to agree to remove virtually all of the retrospective elements from this legislation. The process of going through it has been helpful to many. We have improved the comitology proposals, we have improved the proposals relating to craft built for own use. We have put in proposals from the Verts/ALE Group on biodegradable oils and we have satisfied user groups and the industries by putting forward the 3dB noise allowance. The outcome from virtually all sides has been satisfactory. I have received emails in the last few days from the user groups saying that they are relatively satisfied, and also from the industry saying that it is relatively satisfied. As long as the Commission is relatively satisfied, that really is an incredible outcome. Within the legislation, the Commission is asked to produce further reports. I would warn the Commission about the danger of over-regulation in this sector. The proposals were originally produced to reduce the emissions from recreational craft. Recreational craft in the European Union account for 0.5% of all emissions. With this proposal we would see a substantial reduction in that fraction of emissions. I hope that the Commission will bear in mind that it will come up against the law of diminishing returns if it tries to regulate even further in this sector. The large amount of cost and inconvenience that would be involved for users to produce even smaller fractional improvements in environmental performance would be very difficult to justify. In the field of in-use compliance testing, the Commission has also been asked to produce proposals. Bearing in mind that many Member States – I am thinking particularly of Finland here – have thousands of small boats on very remote and inaccessible lakes, when and if it brings forward proposals for a system of in-use compliance testing, I hope that the Commission will bear in mind the difficulty of implementing them in many Member States. I hope that it will also bear in mind that the improvements in environmental performance that it wishes to bring about will be very fractional and may not justify the large amounts of cost and inconvenience for all concerned. After those few, relatively negative comments, let me thank the Commission for its help in producing these proposals. I thank all those Members – none of whom have turned up – for their contributions. We have reached a satisfactory outcome for all concerned. I commend the proposal to the House. – Mr President, I have listened with great interest to the Commissioner's statement on the enlargement countries. I am sure if they join the Union, they will wish to ensure transparency and accountability in all the institutions. To this end, the President of the Commission this morning promised Parliament that he would publish the note to Commissioner Kinnock from Mr Jules Muis of the Internal Audit Service. This afternoon the Commission spokesman said that the Commission now had no plans to publish that note. Could the Commissioner please tell us why the Commission's line has changed from this morning and why it is refusing to publish this document so that the discharge of the Commission's budget can proceed as urgently and speedily as possible? Mr President, I should first like to pay tribute to Mr Lange for all the work he has done on what is an extremely technically complex proposal. He has certainly gained a reputation in committee for having an extremely good technical understanding of the subject matters involved. Even if I do not necessarily agree with all the conclusions he reaches, I pay tribute to all the work he has done and for his understanding of the issues. I opposed many of the amendments that Mr Lange first proposed to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, but I am happy to say that since then he has put in an enormous amount of work to negotiate compromises with the Council, the vast majority of which I am happy to endorse. I always believe that the approach we should take on environmental emissions directives must be proportionate. We must ensure that the environmental benefits are always balanced against the cost. So often in the EU we impose enormous costs on business and industry for sometimes relatively marginal improvements in environmental performance. Many of the compromises that have been negotiated I am happy now to support. The text is much more closely aligned with US EPO-proposed tier 4 limits and dates. The document now states that the proposed package of limit values should be aligned, as far as possible, with developments in the United States so as to offer manufacturers a global market for their engine concepts. That is an approach I strongly support. The text now puts back the review date to 2007, which gives much more opportunity for practical experience with after-treatment technology to be achieved before stages IIIB and IV are confirmed. Having said that, I will not support Amendments Nos 71, 75, 82 and 89, concerning replacement engines, the classification of auxiliary engines and engines used to perform maintenance or construction work. Because specific rail technology has not yet, in my view, been satisfactorily developed to meet the requirements of stages 3 and 4, I believe it is not possible to establish if and when these requirements can be met. I am happy with the vast majority of the compromises that Mr Lange has so skilfully negotiated and wish to pay tribute to the work he has done in that respect. – It is interesting how, in this House we move seamlessly from global economic policy and world summits to the technical regulations of exhaust and sound level emissions from recreational craft in Europe: such is the broad sweep of politics dealt with in this place. I believe strongly that we must always be extremely wary in Europe of over-regulation, of using 'a sledge-hammer to crack a nut', of introducing unnecessary, cumbersome and bureaucratic regulations. To put this directive into perspective, recreational craft in the EU are responsible for less than half of 1% of all exhaust emissions in the Union and  it is the case that this regulation turns out to have severe impacts on small boat owners, driving them unnecessarily off the waterways, then sadly this will merely increase disenchantment with Europe among many of our citizens. In my own country we have a very thriving small canal boat industry to which Commissioner Patten has just referred. As a former Member of Parliament in the West Country, he will know that industry extremely well. It is composed of many historic craft, the potential for tourism is extremely great and we must be careful to ensure that they are not regulated out of existence. It consists of many small enterprises and enthusiasts. The object of this proposal is to complete the internal market and to protect the health of users and third parties in Europe: those are indeed laudable aims. However, as I intimated, I do have a number of concerns about the way these regulations have been framed. First of all, on the issue of retrospectivity. In my view, retrospective laws are often extremely bad laws – they are grossly unfair to existing users and industries which have grown up under an existing regulatory framework. Secondly, they very often act as a perverse incentive. For instance, under the regulations being framed in this directive, if you have an old boat with an old polluting engine, it is perfectly legal provided you do not replace it with a slightly newer possibly even cleaner engine of a greater power rating. If you do that, obviously improving the environment in the process, then you are subject to the full force of these regulations and would possibly be faced with extremely expensive compliance costs for your craft. I cannot see that regulations framed in this way benefit anybody. Furthermore, it is of course extremely difficult to see how they could possibly be policed in practice without having inspectors in every boatyard, every harbour, every port, every river and every canal in Europe, which we are clearly not going to do. Can I also move on and say a couple of words about some of the amendments which have been proposed. I will not mention all of them (the House will be pleased to know). The Socialists have tabled a proposal by Mr Lange which was passed by the Environment Committee (No 30) seeking to impose an additional second table of stricter limits for boats on drinking water lakes. I understand the raison d'être behind that proposal, but I believe that it would prove extremely problematical. Very difficult to implement in practice, it would be a barrier to trade and it would completely contradict the Commission's intention to harmonise the internal market which will be further fragmented. I hope the House will think very closely before supporting that amendment. The proposed limits in Mr Lange's amendments are extremely strict, particularly for two and four-stroke engines. They are technically very difficult to implement and the prospective benefits that are produced are not very great. I am sure that the problems presented in one or two lakes in Germany and Austria could be solved, but imposing these limits throughout the whole of Europe where they are often unnecessary will not do that. It will result in manufacturers producing engines only for their own local markets in their own country and I would urge Parliament to reject those amendments. Can I also say a word about Mr Lange's other proposed Amendment No 48 on sound level measurements. Without going into the technicalities of it, the new method that he proposes would cause many problems particularly if you had an instantaneous difficulty, particularly say wave-slap, resulting in a one-off sound level measurement which would be very difficult to repeat day after day and therefore very difficult to implement in practice. This proposal could produce modest environmental benefits, but we must make sure that those modest environmental benefits do not come about at the expense at the loss of hundreds of jobs in many small enterprises across Europe and the pricing of many European citizens off the waterways which they have enjoyed for many hundreds of years. . Conservative MEPs accord a very great importance to issues of parental responsibility and the protection of children. It is, unfortunately, an unavoidable fact that the European Community is working towards the establishment of a common judicial area. However, we believe that parental responsibility should remain the right of a parent within the competence of individual Member States and, as such, cannot support a report which gives the Council the right to instruct Member States to hand over their autonomy in this area. – Mr President, in mediaeval times groups of thugs and hooligans would pick on elderly women and accuse them of witchcraft. They would throw them into the village pond. If the poor souls drowned, they were shown to be innocent; if they survived, it proved their guilt and they were then burned at the stake. Either way, the result is the same. We had a similar example in 20th century China during the Cultural Revolution. Red Guards would accuse intellectuals of bourgeois thinking. If they confessed, they were guilty – but, of course, redeemable – but if they denied the charge, they were condemned out of their own mouths because they failed to recognise their guilt. In both of those cases, we see the danger of placing the burden of proof on the accused. Our justice systems have always rightly placed the burden of proof on the accuser, not on the defendant. They have always assumed that a person is innocent until proven guilty. Now, in 21st century Europe, we are proposing to abandon this fundamental principle of justice and instead to adopt the approach of the mediaeval witch-finders and the Chinese Red Guards. We propose to put the burden of proof on the defendant, and we even have amendments that would further pass the benefit of doubt to the accuser and not to the accused. Then there is the issue of malicious allegations – in which, sadly, we have seen a huge increase – putting a lot of employers to great expense and to great cost. My own party was accused by a lot of left-wingers of racism because it spoke out on the issue of asylum-seekers in the United Kingdom.  In the case of employers, even if an employer manages to mount a successful defence to these unjustified cases, the time and anxiety of a tribunal or a court hearing will be a huge imposition. Given the bias of this legislation in favour of the accuser and the prevailing climate of political correctness that we seem to be obsessed with, even many innocent employers will frequently lose their cases, incurring penalties, as well as court costs and lost time. This legislation, I am sorry to say, is an invitation to trouble makers and those with chips on their shoulders to bring frivolous and vexatious complaints, or possibly to use even the threat of a complaint to secure financial compensation.  There is, of course, another danger, and that is that employers, aware of the risk of complaints from unsuccessful ethnic minority candidates, may even avoid putting them on short lists altogether, which would be a terrible disaster and completely against the spirit of the legislation. As so often in this House, we have failed to think through the possible unintended consequences. This legislation is unnecessary at a European level. Most Member States already have their own anti-discrimination measures designed to suit their own culture and their own circumstances. I am proud to say that I am opposed to discrimination and racism in all its forms, but this irrational and unjust legislation will bring Europe further into disrepute among many of my constituents. I am pleased to say that the rest of my delegation will be joining me in opposing it. Mr President, I voted for the motion of censure because it was fully in accordance with the manifesto on which I was elected to this House. The European Commission has taken no effective action on fraud and maladministration beyond persecuting the journalist who exposed the whole affair and the whistleblowers. Unfortunately, many Members have succumbed to the bullying of the Commission and therefore did not back the motion, which is to their shame. Nevertheless, I hope the Commission will take note of the sentiment and clean up its act. My constituents in Northumberland, Tyne and Wear, Durham and Cleveland demand that the Commission put an end to the culture of casual misappropriation of taxpayers' money that exists in so many of our European institutions. . – Mr President, I have a few points to make, but I can see that the debate has hardly engendered rapt enthusiasm among the packed ranks of Members so I will be as brief as possible and let everybody get away for their dinner. I wish to begin by thanking the Commissioner and all those who have taken an interest in the report for being here this evening. It might be a minor subject, but it is very important to those involved in the recreational boating industry and those many thousands of people across Europe who also indulge their hobby of boating. Many of the problems apparent in the legislation at first reading have been substantially resolved by the Council at second reading. Most of the retrospective elements in the proposal at first reading have now been removed and I can broadly support the Commission's proposals at second reading, albeit with a few riders. I tabled a few amendments for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, some of which were accepted. Most of the technical amendments we put forward were accepted. I shall just run through a few of the problems that I still see with the legislation. I continue to have doubts about the effectiveness of a regulatory committee, particularly one empowered to alter quite important items of the directive such as Froude numbers. The committee supported my recommendations on that and the amendments are up for vote tomorrow. I continue to believe that craft built for users' own use should be exempted for five years, provided they are not placed on the market. This directive was introduced under single-market legislation and it is self-evident that if those craft are not intended to be placed on the market, then they cannot affect the single market. The issue of in-use compliance testing is a particularly thorny one. I understand that at some stage the Commission will be coming back with proposals on that. I hope it will consider that issue very carefully. The last thing we want is an extremely bureaucratic system imposed on the boat owners and users of Europe. It needs to be very simple and effective and, above all, free of charge to those who have boats at the moment. Finally, I should like to tell our German colleagues that a number of amendments – I call them the Bodensee amendments because they are the result of lobbying from the Lake Constance authorities – have been tabled. There are broadly two categories of amendments. Firstly, those tabled to allow Member States to set their own limits in particular local circumstances. I am not usually against Member States derogating from European regulations, but if we are going to produce a directive whose specific purpose is to permit a single market across Europe and then introduce specific exemptions into the directive, that would defeat the whole point of having it in the first place. Secondly, I have a particular problem with the so-called Table 1a amendment, again based on the Bodensee limits, but even stricter. Again it would be a barrier to trade. However, I would say to our colleagues on the Bodensee that, if there is a problem in this particular stretch of water, then, firstly, there is no evidence that it is caused by recreational craft and, secondly, that if there is a difficulty it can be solved by local measures in the area of Lake Constance. Speed and navigational limits could be imposed, and I entirely support their right to do that. But do not saddle the rest of Europe with unenforceable limits just to solve a particular problem that the German and Austrian authorities might have. I have looked quite extensively at the limits proposed in that table with boat-users' representatives and representatives from industry, and there are no commercially available engines on the market that meet those limits at the moment. Obviously technology could be developed further, but it would require the use of catalytic converter technology, which is extremely difficult in a marine environment. By all means let the research go ahead, let us look at the issue again in a few years, but please do not try and saddle the rest of Europe with unenforceable limits. All that would happen – because there are no retrospective elements – is that, as has happened on the Bodensee, the whole of Europe would become pretty much a museum for old engines. The companies making new engines go out of business, but those refurbishing old engines continue to make a lot of money. The engine could be old, polluting or spilling oil into the water but, as long as it was in existence at the time the limits were introduced, it would be perfectly legal. It is completely self-defeating to impose unachievable limits. I would strongly recommend the House to vote against those amendments tomorrow. – Mr President, on a point of order, the reason why the lifts did not appear to be working was that the security guards were standing at the bottom with about three of them blocked off, apparently for some delegation that is visiting Parliament! Because this building is so badly designed, the lifts barely have enough capacity for Members as it is, without the security guards taking over two or three of them at precisely the time when everybody is coming down to vote. The sessional services should get themselves better organised. – Mr President, as a new Member here, I am not rising to criticise the architecture and decoration of the building, although quite clearly I could. I agree with those other Members who think it is absolutely awful, but that is a matter of individual taste. I wish to add my voice to the many comments that have already been made and say that I find it absolutely incomprehensible that we are even here in the first place, when we have perfectly good offices, meeting rooms and chambers in Brussels and that it is absurd that the whole “Euro-circus” has to come traipsing down to Strasbourg for three, possibly four days a month (5 days this week – I do apologise). European taxpayers have read the extensive press coverage about this building and they possibly think that we are all mad. Those people who are in favour of building Europe should not be surprised that the public treat it with great scepticism. Regarding the costs, I would like a letter from Mr Priestley outlining the costs. Perhaps we should publicise it a bit more, although I suspect that would get us into even more trouble with the electorate. My main plea is that since a treaty change was required to bring us here in the first place, surely we can all lobby in our political parties, our Governments, to get a treaty change to take us away and spend the money on something useful that the people would appreciate. – Mr President, I should like to make a couple of general points and a couple of specific points about this report. Firstly, generally, I support the common position – it is a useful compromise – but I would not support going any further than that. This is useful as a framework directive but I would not like to see lots of further directives springing from it. We need to be very careful in applying the principles of subsidiarity, a view which is being widely expressed across the Chamber. I am not sure that we would have any credibility whatsoever as a Parliament or as a European Union if we started to dictate to our citizens what hours they can or cannot sleep. This is a matter that should be determined for them at a local level. If an airport, for instance, is located in the centre of a city, then the limit values that should be acceptable there are completely different to those at an airport located out on a peninsula in a quiet rural area. Why should not a particular community seek to set up an airport, for instance as a cargo hub, that can experience noise pollution in excess of what a large city should produce? This is a matter for local authorities and for national governments and should not be a matter for this Parliament and for Europe. I should like to ask those people who wanted to include military aircraft and military airfields within the scope of this directive, whether they are really saying, as Europe is, at the moment, in a state of war, that our airforces cannot operate at night or with planes that are too noisy, that they cannot defend our freedoms against terrorist attacks if their aircraft are too noisy. I suggest that if that proposal is being made seriously, it would be laughed out of court across Europe. I am in favour of legislation laying down noise limits for specific projects, but we really are going far too far in many aspects of the amendments proposed in this directive. . – Mr President, I am standing in for my colleague, Mr Mombaur, who is unable to attend as he is unwell, to give the opinion of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. The committee's opinion was originally adopted in April 1999, in the last Parliament, and was readopted by the committee in this Parliament by an overwhelming majority with the original wording. The draftsman, Mr Mombaur, noted that only two things had changed in the two years. I should like to quote his comments that: "First, the Federal German Government's policy of ending electricity production at nuclear power stations after a further 32 years has shown clearly that, at least in the case of the transport of spent fuel elements, safety problems do not exist. Secondly, it has been made clear that a change of government in one Member State does not provide a legal basis for terminating agreements concluded at intergovernmental level." Six conclusions were adopted by the Industry Committee, largely of a technical nature, to emphasise the low levels of radioactivity and exposure involved, particularly in comparison with naturally occurring background radiation. I note conclusions 1 and 2 concerning the Standing Working Group on the safe transport of radioactive materials in the European Union, which was established in 1982 at Parliament's request, which call for its work to continue and for its proceedings to be made public. I am intrigued to see Commissioner Lamy here this afternoon. Does this means the Commission is intending to extend the trade in nuclear materials beyond the boundaries of the European Union? . – This report was adopted in committee by an overwhelming majority of 47 to 1 without amendment. It concerns a small but important modification of an existing directive which needs to be implemented before the end of this year in order to prevent many European companies from being in breach from January onwards. The Finnish Presidency would very much like to adopt this proposal in Council this week. The last meeting of the Council this year is on Thursday and, if the House wills it and is agreeable, I would like to make a formal proposal that, instead of a debate, we have a vote on the report on Wednesday. This would enable the Council to go through its procedures very swiftly and make a lot of European industries happy. I understand that it would be something of a first to achieve agreement with unanimity in the Council on the first reading. I should therefore like to propose a vote without debate on Wednesday. – Mr President, we used to have a joke in the United Kingdom about there being fog in the Channel and the continent therefore being cut off. Now it seems more a case of people loose in the Tunnel and trains and trade cut off – which is altogether more serious. The effects of the restrictions are very damaging to free movement and employment: thousands of jobs are at risk. I have to say that for those affected, removing the restrictions by June sounds a very long way off. The problem is the proximity of the Sangatte camp for refugees: it is too close and should be moved, and makes policing very difficult. This Tunnel is an asset and enterprise which is jointly owned and benefits both France and Britain, as well as the wider Community of Member States. It is probably the single most important physical link drawing Britain and the continent together. The difficulty of policing illegal immigrants is damaging to this process and must be resolved soon. I call on the Commission to press the French authorities to take action. I call on the United Kingdom government to offer more assistance to its French counterparts and to the hauliers and businesses concerned, rather than seeming to turn a blind eye to their concerns and difficulties and spending more time harassing truck drivers and train operators with prosecutions and fines. The authorities need to take action and not take it out on other innocent parties. – Mr President, this issue should not even be a subject of urgent debate. I deplore the cynical Green exploitation and misrepresentation of the situation. Interference in the internal affairs of a candidate country with the political blackmail of a threat to veto accession to the EU is wholly unacceptable. I regret that people in Austria have allowed themselves to be ruled by emotion, not rational scientific argument. The Czechs show every sign of behaving responsibly and properly according to internationally accepted standards, and we should leave them to get on with it. Although I signed the joint motion as instructed by my political group, I intend to vote against this resolution. – President, I would just like to say to the Commissioner, if I may, that I liked his summing up much more than his statement at the beginning. I congratulate him on it, particularly in the circumstances of his health, and I say well done, and come back and say more to us in that fashion Commissioner. – Mr President, on a point of order, when I inquired this morning about the time of this debate I was told it would start shortly after 3 o'clock. When I came for this debate at 3 o'clock I was told it would be taking place later, towards 5 o'clock. Clearly there is pressure on our agenda today. I wish to put forward a proposal that might relieve pressure on the end of today's agenda, namely, the debate previewed for the late payments directive – the report of the conciliation procedure with the Council. This is an issue which is now entirely without contention. Everybody supports this matter. The rapporteur, the shadow rapporteur and the chairman of the committee would all support a suggestion that this be turned into a vote without debate. That would end pressure on the agenda right at the end of this evening. Possibly we could have a vote on it now. – I welcome the new strategic goal of making Europe the most dynamic and competitive area. Who could challenge such an ambition? I have to say, however, that dynamism and entrepreneurship as well as social cohesion are a very ambitious target, not to mention the creative tension between those two objectives. I hope that we will achieve them, but I sound a warning note. I note another ambitious objective of playing a proactive role in organising cyberspace. I cannot help thinking this is more a case of closing the stable door after the horse has bolted! I welcome the emphasis on bolstering research and development in Europe, on developing content industries and on speeding up broad-band networks with all that is involved as part of working towards a knowledge society. Actually, I would prefer to call it an information economy because it is the economy aspect which is the most important. We live in the time of IDEA – the Internet digital electronic age. That sums up what we are trying to achieve on the e-side, the electronic side, of life. But I welcome the fact that this summit is aiming also at a wider emphasis on reforms of our economies in Europe to improve competitiveness and innovation. That must be right. We cannot just focus on the new economy. We must pay attention to the old. I look forward to hearing more detail about the European Charter for micro-enterprises – that should be very interesting when it comes forward. One of the priorities which has been identified under the Cardiff process is to improve the sensitivity of the financial markets to the value of intangible investments and investments in knowledge. That has been achieved possibly beyond the wildest dreams of people a few months ago. It can be seen in the phenomenal growth in the stock markets of Europe in the value of dot.com companies and just recently in the major changes in the composition of the FTSE 100 index in London. I cannot help thinking however that although these values have gone sky high and we may expect the bubble to burst, nevertheless the underlying structural change in our economies is here to stay. – Mr President, both the Maastricht and the Amsterdam Treaties focus on environment protection measures. This communication from the Commission takes the issue forward within the energy sector. Three objectives have been set out: firstly, to promote energy efficiency; second, to increase the share of production of cleaner energy sources – the target is 12% from renewables by 2010 – third, to reduce the environmental impact of the production and use of energy products. Three priorities have been set for integrating these environmental objectives in energy policy. First of all, they need to be implemented in a balanced way which takes account of competitiveness and of security of supply. Then, they must be realistic and cost-effective. Third, they must be flexible in their implementation to take account of rapidly changing markets and technologies. Global warming is a major issue but, of course, it is not the only environmental issue that we confront. In the energy and transport sectors there are major contributors to global warming emissions. We, in Europe, must do our part and set a good example to the rest of the world, while recognising that the major pressure for energy consumption in future will come from countries like the United States, which is rather profligate in its consumption of energy, and also from developing countries which, as their economies grow and they raise their standard of living, will look for more energy consumption, which is likely to come from rather polluting sources of energy. The report calls on the Commission to promote best practice, to encourage the exchange of views and experience, to encourage increased public awareness while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. It must be recognised that energy policy is still determined largely at Member State level. But there can be no doubt that energy efficiency is a matter that should be of concern to all of us. The report also calls on the Commission to support the process of integrating these environmental objectives in energy policy through research into the impact of climate change, through research into all possible technologies, through research into identifying the best indicators to measure achievements in reducing emissions and through regular reports to Parliament. In terms of possible legislative action, this report calls on the Commission to consider amending existing legislation or to introduce new measures which will strengthen those objectives, but it also asks the Commission to follow-up and study the effect of all legislative measures up to now and to report on their full cost and their full effectiveness to Parliament. The report also calls for the environmental objectives to be taken into account in the enlargement process. There are many concerns about energy consumption and electricity generation in the applicant countries, which need to be addressed. The report reminds us that in order to achieve significant improvement in global environmental protection measures and reduction of emissions, we need dialogue and consensus with both our trading competitors and developing countries alike. The Commission has made one major omission in not making any mention of nuclear energy in this report. Whatever your views on this source of power and electricity, it is a fact that it supplies a significant part of our electricity in Europe and it does so in a way which does not produce CO2 or other greenhouse gas emissions and that is why – and the only reason – it has been mentioned in this report. It would be a mistake for this reference to nuclear energy to distract attention from the main thrust of this report, which is about improving energy efficiency, drawing more supply from renewable sources, and integrating our environmental objectives in our energy policy. It is a good start and there is much more to do. Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for her assurance on the point I raised. I would like to add one comment following Mr Linkohr's remarks about prices: we should remember that the principal component in the price of oil is taxation. We should not get too hung up on future trends in price. – Mr President, I congratulate my colleague, Mr Linkohr, on this report. It is a welcome contribution to the wider debate on security of supply of energy in Europe, on which I am working at present. I should like to pick up on four points. Regarding paragraph 1, calling for effective dialogues with supplier countries, earlier this afternoon I attended a meeting where we heard about the work of the Energy Charter and the importance of putting that framework in place, in particular for our trading and investment relations with Russia as a primary source of oil and gas. I would like to emphasise the importance of that initiative. Next, paragraph 7 calls on the EU to make greater efforts to replace oil as far as possible. I support that paragraph. There is great potential and we are looking forward to hearing from the Commission later this year with proposals to encourage bio-fuels and other alternatives as a supplement – and perhaps a complement – to oil at present. Thirdly, paragraph 27, on a different tack, urges the Commission to encourage enhancing production of oil in Europe through improved techniques of extraction. This also must surely be a sensible policy to make the best use of our own resources. Fourthly, paragraph 30 calls on Member States to work on the housing and transport sectors as areas where we can dramatically improve our energy efficiency and our conservation of energy. These both have to be a sensible approach. Finally, it seems to me that perhaps the most important thing we have to do – which is a challenge ahead of us – is to influence and change public opinion on the need for conservation and efficiency. .  Mr President, I should like to report to the House that, following the debate last night and discussions with the presidency, in the spirit of compromise reflecting our work on this portfolio, I am mandated by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy to withdraw Amendments Nos 3 and 11. On that basis, I understand that the Commission is in full support of all the amendments and the presidency has indicated its support. Therefore, I urge colleagues to vote for the rest. Block No 1 will effectively subsume three other amendments. – Madam President, before we proceed to the Schwaiger report vote, could I raise a point of clarification? A split vote has been requested on recital C from our side, but looking at the voting papers, I think that a word may have been included that should not have been. The words in the English text that we want to vote on separately are "and socially balanced": those are the separate words. Some versions suggest we should also vote on the word "fair", but that should be in the main part of the text. I hope that is clear. – Mr President, Commissioner, first may I also associate myself strongly with the remarks made by my colleague, Mr Galeote, with regard to terrorism. I too have had some experience of that in another place. The first point I would like to make is that the repairs to the cooling system of this submarine are already under way. It is already happening, so let us be realistic about what options face the UK and Gibraltar authorities in dealing with it. Let us please be realistic about the notion of lifting this submarine, waiting for weather conditions to be favourable and somehow transporting it back to the UK. It needs to be repaired . You have just heard the Commissioner say that defence issues in general, and in particular nuclear defence issues, are a matter for national sovereignty, not for this Parliament, but that the concerns of the public in Gibraltar and the adjoining areas are a natural and legitimate cause for debate in this Parliament. One might well ask whether the government of the United Kingdom has exercised its responsibility in that regard to keep its defence equipment properly maintained, and indeed whether people in the UK are aware that, because of this incident, and the withdrawal of other nuclear submarines, our shores are currently being defended – rumour has it – by a U-boat from Germany. I think it is very important to keep this matter in proportion and to avoid crying wolf with alarmist statements which are not supported by the facts. This is a technical problem with a technical solution and the sooner the repair is completed, the better it will be for all. – Mr President, I cannot help observing that we have ended up with two directives after all, just as we suggested at the beginning. May I congratulate all my colleagues on their hard work with the Commission and Council in achieving this compromise result. It is a tribute to the effective working of our committee. We have not achieved all we want. Past experience on previous directives shows that a foot in the door can and does lead to more opening than expected. My particular interest is in the interaction between market opening and liberalisation and the issue of security of supply. It needs to be said that more effective markets make for more efficient use of energy, and that is an essential element in maintaining security of supply. We should also stand back from the details to remember the purpose behind these measures. First and foremost, it is about choice, better value and better service to consumers of energy, both domestic and commercial. Experience shows that competition drives these objectives forward, and we have seen the benefits in lower prices and improved service in the UK. We need to see more improvement throughout Europe before we can say that we have done enough. We have learned over the past 15 years that progress in liberalisation cannot be achieved all at once and a step-by-step approach is more likely to lead to a better outcome in the end. I would like to advise the Commissioner that the Kangaroo Group working party on energy liberalisation is presently discussing the next steps we need to take in order to address the shortcomings not fully addressed in the current proposals. We must not think these directives and regulations are the end of the process. – Mr President, we must beware of arousing too many expectations and too great ambitions on too many fronts by overloading the agenda for Cancun. Yet we cannot overemphasise that trade is good for both parties. There is plenty of research and empirical evidence supporting this view. We must concentrate on removing barriers and improving access because that benefits all parties to trade. I express the hope that the CAP package of reform will convince our trading partners of our goodwill in this matter. But I cannot help wondering whether they, as well as we, will have to wait until the final text when the devil in the detail becomes available to us. I note the number of disputes that we have with our partners across the Atlantic, in particular one concerning GMOs and access to the EU market, which has now been referred to the disputes procedure. I hope that Cancun or the disputes procedure will enable us to resolve this sort of dispute because the EU must not be seen as a fortress of privileged countries. Cancun is in the new world. I hope that will create an opportunity to bring the two sides, on either side of the Atlantic – the old world and the new world – together to resolve trade differences to the mutual benefit of our citizens and our economies. So I wish Commissioner Lamy and my colleagues who will go as part of the European Parliament delegation a successful meeting. Mr President, I sympathise with the Commissioner over the vagaries of temperature in this building. To paraphrase William Shakespeare, I come not to bury radioactive waste but to praise nuclear energy: that is to say, to provide a reminder that nuclear energy is vitally important to European electricity and, therefore, our people must have great confidence in the safety standards applied to its generation. There has been an interesting debate about whether this should be a directive, which is binding, or a non-binding instrument. I would remind colleagues that the existing instruments covering nuclear safety – national regulations and the Convention on Nuclear Safety – are perfectly and wholly adequate. Let us remember that the buck stops with the Member States. However, what a directive can do is to change the perception individuals have of nuclear energy and their judgment as to whether or not it is safe. That is vitally important. I welcome the changes to the treatment of decommissioning funds in the main text, which was a very important issue. I also welcome the principle involved in the proposal on decommissioning waste – the principle of setting deadlines for adopting a programme and choosing a site. I say that because Member States must take decisions and they – my own included – must be pushed into taking those decisions. That is the vital role of this proposal. Let us have flexibility, but let us set deadlines. That also will enhance public confidence. . – Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating the Commission on the Green Paper. It is an excellent analysis of our energy supply situation in Europe. I thank all my colleagues for the way in which they have contributed to my report to bring it to this stage this evening. There are three main points in the Green Paper. Firstly, the European Union will become increasingly dependent on external energy sources, reaching 70% by 2003. Secondly, the EU has very limited scope to influence energy supply conditions so that it is on the demand side that the EU can intervene, mostly through promoting energy saving in buildings and in the transport sector. Thirdly, in present circumstances the EU is not in a position to respond to the challenge of climate change and to meet its commitments, notably under the Kyoto Protocol. One thing above all else is staring us in the face: the massive dependence on oil and on imported oil in particular. For commonsense reasons of security of supply and protection of the environment, urgent steps should be taken to address this disproportionate dependence. We cannot alter the fact of where the oil comes from, but we can do a number of things on the demand side, particularly in the transport sector. Being dependent on imports is not necessarily a bad thing or economically inefficient, provided that the sources are diverse, no one supplier is dominant and we can produce sufficient goods and services to pay for them. The Commission is correct to focus on demand management measures as a first priority and it is to be hoped that the Member States will pursue this approach vigorously. However I do not accept the view that little or nothing can be done on the supply side. In four areas the EU and Member States can be masters of their own destiny and make a real difference, both to security of supply and to protection of the environment. Renewable energy sources are by definition indigenous supplies and we are correct to seek to increase their share of final consumption and electricity generation. However let us be realistic,. Even if the ambitious targets for RES are met, they cannot be expected to replace any of the other energy sources completely or become the sole supplier of all our energy needs. Nuclear energy is not popular in some quarters, but it supplies more electricity in Europe than any other energy source. It provides large volume, base load power and produces hardly any greenhouse gas emissions. It is a safe and secure European technology, operated under stringent standards of regulation. To deliberately deny ourselves this major source of electricity seems perverse in the absence of an alternative source of supply that can provide an equivalent volume. Coal is a source of energy in decline in Europe, because of cost and environmental concerns. Yet it is an important indigenous resource which could be given a new lease of life with new technology to make it more efficient and less pollutant. Furthermore, there is huge scope for gaining business in the rest of the world for European suppliers of equipment and systems, if the industry can seize the opportunity. The fourth area is research work for future technologies and energy systems. That is something Europe must do in order to safeguard future security of supply, employment and technology. It seems obvious but needs repeating. For all the above reasons, I also disagree with the view that the EU cannot meet its Kyoto commitments. What is needed is realism on the nuclear issue, determined effort on clean coal technology, much encouragement of RES and coordinated demand management measures, as well as a sustained effort to inform public opinion about the necessity to stop wasting energy. – Mr President, Madam Commissioner, first may I express my regret at the delays in working on this portfolio last year because the Commission declined to accept our advice of splitting the proposals into two separate proposals for gas and electricity. I also regret that the timetable has now been compressed from May to March because of the Council's desire to have this proposal before it at Barcelona. I hope this will not be a case of 'legislate in haste and repent at leisure'. We strongly support the aims of the directive and the regulation. The present situation is a flawed and inequitable market. French and German utilities are able to buy UK power companies, yet it is impossible to have reciprocal opportunities to buy into EDF or acquire whole companies. The German market is almost as difficult to enter, despite so-called full competition. This must change. I recognise that the step-by-step approach is a realistic one: first all non-domestic consumers then domestic later, as a progressive opening, is a more orderly process. I have to regret that one rapporteur has chosen to introduce too much detail in amendments and tried to over-elaborate some of the measures, for example, the question of the detail demanded on energy bills. This is an unnecessary amount of detail. Finally, I would like to commend the proposed amendments on establishing a committee of European energy regulators so as to improve cooperation and coordination in implementing the regulation on cross-border trading. – Mr President, Commissioner, we warmly support the draft directive for electricity from renewable energy sources. We see it as building on the work of our colleague, Mr Mombaur, in advocating a greater share of electricity and energy in the European Union from these sources. Clearly, the issues that divide the House are quite stark: the issue of the definition of renewable energy, for instance. Many of us feel that energy from waste should be included. It is a valuable resource and it certainly renews itself day-by-day, and that should qualify it to be included. It seems a pity to exclude any category which can contribute to the overall achievement of energy from waste – whether it is for small-scale projects or part of the overall calculation. The key issue, however, that divides us is the question of the binding nature of the targets. We have grave reservations about this being in conflict with the principle of subsidiarity. We think our friends on the Left and the Greens are asking too much in this regard. It could scupper this directive, but we also think it is a matter of practicality. If you aim for these targets, there is a curious range of percentages between 6% and nearly 80% in different Member States. This seems a very curious way of going about it, so we think the Commission is right to aim for indicative targets. The third point in issue here is the length of support programmes. We favour a shorter period followed by a review, and I would say to my colleague, Mrs McNally, that she paints a pretty picture of windmills in the sea, but I must tell her that the engineering difficulties and the costs involved make that technology, as with electricity from the sun, rather a long way off in the future. But I warmly support this proposal. – Mr President, at a more mundane level, I should like to support those who are complaining about the change in time of voting in one regard. When the bell rang – and I did hear it in my office – I looked to the screen to see what was happening. And what did I see, but my esteemed colleague, Mr Harbour, speaking with great authority on the issue in hand with no indication that the votes were to follow next. For all I knew, it could have been a fire alarm or something else. Perhaps the screens could have given us better information about what was coming? – Mr President, let us put this matter in perspective. This is not as much of a crisis as the 1970s. It is as much a taxpayer’s crisis as an energy crisis. It is not acceptable for governments to put the blame on OPEC, on oil companies, on peaceful protesters, on other political parties, or even on the European Union for protests about levels of taxation that are too high. In the UK, tax takes 75% or three-quarters of the price of a litre of petrol or diesel and that is the responsibility of the government, no one else. Energy supply is more elastic than demand. We learned this in the 1970s, when higher prices brought more oil fields into production yet did not reduce consumption in the transport sector. High taxation raises revenue, but fails to cut consumption. Nevertheless, the price increases and the tax protests are timely, to remind us both about our dependence in Europe on imported energy and about the difficulties we face in achieving environmental objectives such as CO2 emission reduction. If taxation of energy is to be used for pursuing environmental aids, then the policy has to be transparent and consistent so as to carry public opinion with us. Where policies are perceived as unfair and inconsistent, as in the UK, then protests will enjoy widespread popular support. To put fuel taxes up so much as to make industry uncompetitive while reducing taxes on domestic household energy consumption, is crazy politics and bad economics. Let us not be beguiled by arguments about harmonising taxation, because harmonised taxes under socialists have only one way to go and that is up. That is not what the taxpayers and consumers of Europe want. Mr President, there is a little confusion as to why we have been asked to vote twice on this particular Karlsson report for rejection. Could you clarify the situation? Madam President, I should like to start by commending the rapporteur's work on this portfolio, it is an important matter. I share the Commissioner's concern over the need for security of supply for oil and gas in Europe, but we might have different ideas as to how we can achieve it - in particular, not by interventionism in the markets. Why is the Commissioner seeking to reinvent the wheel when there are already satisfactory arrangements in place with the IEA for a regime of maintaining oil reserves? It was established in the 1970's in response to the crisis then and it has served us in good stead ever since, so why replace it? I have even more concern about and difficulty with proposals to use reserves to intervene in the market for purposes of price-smoothing, when experience shows – and recent experience in the United States in particular shows – that it does not work. It would be a distortion of a market that has worked well for a very long time. Commissioner, you are to be commended for the many initiatives on energy that you have introduced over the last four years, not least for the Green Paper on security of supply, for which I was Parliament's rapporteur. However, the different measures you have brought forward – on liberalising gas and electricity markets, on promoting renewables, on increasing energy efficiency and on developing trans-European energy networks – make clear to me that there is no need to create a additional chapter or legal base on energy, because you have all these instruments available to you already. I think this is an unnecessary measure. With particular reference to the proposal on oil reserves, although I bow to my colleague's views about the measure on gas being in a different category, I make no apology for reintroducing the amendment to reject this proposal and in doing so I thank all those colleagues who supported me on this specific aspect. I hope you will take this in the spirit in which it is intended and reflect on different ways of achieving the objective that we share: maintaining security of supply for energy in Europe. Furthermore, should we win the vote on this amendment – and as my colleague indicated, it was very close in committee – I trust that the Council and the Commission would respect the outcome and not carry out the threat made in committee by the Commissioner's services to go for a different procedure, in effect acting behind Parliament's back in seeking to persuade the Council to do something which, so I understand, it does not want to do anyway. So I urge you to pause and think again. - Madam Commissioner: the PPE-DE broadly supports the Galileo project in principle. We recognise the case for a complementary and alternative satellite radio navigation system. We recognise the importance of maintaining European technological capability for space activity. We welcome the emphasis on a civil project intended ultimately to be commercially viable in a number of fields such as communications and Earth observation, as well as position – finding. The difficulty lies in determining how to fund a venture until it becomes self-financing, particularly in view of the large sums of upfront investments required. We want to see industry fully involved in the planning, specifications and preparatory stages to ensure a better chance of technical success. That is why we have reintroduced amendments to lower the entrance fee for business to be part of the Joint Undertaking. We see no particular merit in the proposal for a development company at this stage which duplicates the Joint Undertaking structures. We are mindful of the difficulties of funding such a large-value infrastructures project solely from the private sector, which is why we have put forward the amendment enabling some funding to come from defence budgets provided it is used only for peacekeeping purposes. This merely supports the comments made in Annex 1 of the Commission's own information note concerning strategic considerations. In closing I would say that it is a great pleasure to be here as the other half of "les deux gilles ciel et espace" club, with my colleague, Mr Savary. – Mr President, I should like to congratulate my colleague, Mrs Vlasto, on her report. The Lisbon agenda is an important one for the economy and future of Europe and the European Union. A great deal of promise was held out at that time and there is a lot of very positive rhetoric about the process and the things that we want to do. But there is a lot of talk and spin, rather than substance. Many of the projects of substance in the process are a continuation of those schemes, such as liberalising the energy markets, which were in hand before. I note with keen interest comments such as in paragraph 14, which calls on the Member States to reduce the tax burden on employment. I wish that my own Member State had followed that advice instead of putting up the tax on employment in the last budget. I support warmly the comments about stressing the importance for small businesses of a genuine opening of the markets in telecommunications, energy, postal services and transport. This is a worthy aspiration. We are working hard to do it but we are not making fast enough or satisfactory enough progress. I also welcome the call from the Commission for a study on the impact on various kinds of enterprises for each legislative proposal. The Commissioner knows well of my concern about business impact costs and the proposals. That is why I am also concerned about Parliament and our propensity to put down amendments which add costs. That is why my amendment is about examining the costs of our amendments. – Mr President, Commissioner, may I start by declaring an interest, or two interests, in this issue. I have an interest in a forestry business in New Zealand, inherited from my father, so that gives me a practical interest. More recently I visited Finland to see the forestry industry at work as the guest of CEPI, the Confederation of European Paper Industries. So you see the strong Finnish theme in this report continues even with me. Can I welcome this communication and express my pleasure at its emphasis on the importance of this industry. Like the rapporteur and other colleagues I recognise that forestry is a very important industry, important for the economy and important for the environment. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report. In itself it has made quite a contribution towards the consumption of paper and this is to be welcomed, even if our colleagues on the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy had to make it a little bit longer than he would wish. Better to say too much about forestry than too little. I note with interest his reference to telecommunications and the changes in the shape of the communication industry. I happen to believe that despite all these wonderful aspects of modern technology, we will continue to need paper for our reading, because it is the medium that most people are still comfortable with and I certainly am. Also, of course, we shall continue to need timber for all the other uses to which it is put, such as in construction and other possible new uses. The rapporteur and the Committee on Agriculture draw attention to the potential for research into new uses of timber. Can I sound one note of warning. It is a little unrealistic to ask the Commission to ensure that paper prices in Europe are competitive. I think that might be stretching the Commissioner's powers a little bit. I see he is smiling so perhaps he agrees with me. Nevertheless, the Commission has to ensure that fair competition takes place. That is the key issue here, rather than trying to favour our industry. This is a valuable, sustainable industry, very important to the economy of Europe and to our environment, and this is a very timely report. – Mr President, I speak from three perspectives. That of external trade, where I believe the European Union should uphold progress towards a liberalised world-trade order; that of industry, European industry, where jobs and industries are at threat from sanctions and they are innocent victims of these sanctions; and I speak from the perspective of a UK Member of this House who is tired of receiving letters of complaint from companies whose business and whose workers' jobs are at threat from the sanctions through no fault of their own. I regret various aspects of this Dary report. I have to say that this timescale of ten years is wholly unrealistic and unreasonable. I regret the attempt to cling on to quotas and to interfere with trade in that way. Of course, I also regret proposals for higher rates of tariff, which is another intervention in trade. The amendment, which has been put down in my name and others, calls for a negotiated settlement of this dispute, which is World Trade Organisation compatible. That is essential. We have been down this road several times now and innocent companies and jobs are at risk and being threatened as a result of our failure to come to grips with this situation. I support the Commissioner's efforts. He has a difficult task. I have to say that I cannot think of anything more reasonable or pragmatic or sensible than the amendment which a number of colleagues have supported me in submitting. – Mr President, I have news for Mr Helmer, which should encourage him. He should be grateful that we see our Union flag up at all. I am advised that it is the most popular flag to be stolen in this place. – Mr President, I rise in defence of Sellafield British Nuclear Fuels and the workers in that establishment who maintain the highest possible standards in their work. We are rather tired of our friends across the Irish Sea not remembering which way the prevailing winds blow and having no respect for the vast body of scientific and other evidence which supports the good work that Sellafield does. I wish our Irish friends would concentrate on their own affairs and not seek to interfere in the internal affairs of another Member State. – Mr President, the end of the treaty means that something must be put in place. Otherwise, an abrupt end of support would cause a chaotic situation. However, it should not be a licence for endless subsidy. The UK experience shows that it is possible to have a competitive industry, but that the adjustment process can be tough and painful. Deadlines are necessary to force action. I would prefer a shorter deadline, but I respect the compromise we reached in the committee to support the Commission proposal. We must recognise the importance of coal to the EU energy supply and I want to emphasise the aspect of security of supply. We are, in Europe, already heavily dependent on imports of coal, and therefore there is a case to maintain some domestic production. Coal represents 16% of our final energy supply in Europe. I believe that our subsidies, however, should be directed more at clean coal technology for greater efficiency and lower emissions. I welcome the recognition of the United Kingdom coal industry's achievement in improving competitiveness and I would like to close with the thought of challenging the logic of subsidising production of coal at around EUR 140 a tonne on the one hand, while on the other hand phasing out much more economically efficient nuclear production. – Mr President, the importance of the package as a whole is clear, both for a major European industry and for its customers and users. But are we moving fast enough to keep up with a changing market? I would like to congratulate colleagues, especially the PPE-ED team, for getting to this point where much of Parliament's position has been taken on board in the Council text. I particularly welcome progress on Article 4 of the framework directive so that the principle of appeals against NRA decisions on the substance of an issue, not just on whether procedure has been followed correctly, has been accepted. This gives some comfort to operators and provides a more balanced situation. I also welcome moves improving Article 6 of that directive so as to achieve a more even regulatory framework across Member States through the requirement for cooperation and coordination between NRAs and the Commission. Personally, I prefer the voluntary approach to adopting common standards in digital television technology rather than seeking to impose one solution. I say, let the market provide the answer. The package, as now formulated, seems a big improvement on the original proposal but we are still looking for consumers' concern about levels of competition and service to be addressed through faster transition to a true internal market governed by general competition rules. – We on this side whole-heartedly support the response of the United States, the European Union and its Member States and other countries to the attacks of 11 September 2001 and the development of a comprehensive multilateral strategy against terrorism. In recognising the determination of the European Union and its Member States to safeguard its citizens from acts of terrorism, we stress the need to reassure the public by striking the right balance between vigilance and enabling everyday life to continue. We consider that each Member State must carry out a complete reassessment of its approach to the security of infrastructure and installations, particularly the most risk-sensitive such as nuclear installations. We recognise there is genuine public concern about these issues but would like to emphasise the need to keep these matters in perspective. I would like to emphasise that the safety of nuclear plants and other such industrial installations is primarily a national competence and responsibility. In that context we look, for example, to the United Kingdom government to take all necessary short-term protective measures as well as to face up to the necessary longer-term decisions with regard to the disposal of radioactive waste. Clearly, the events of 11 September 2001 in the United States call for a reassessment of the risk of attack on installations that we have previously regarded as secure and I welcome the statement from the Commissioner. I only regret that it was not possible for Commissioner Loyola de Palacio to be able to speak to us – it had been our wish to hold this debate at the next part-session. – Mr President, I would like to convey my congratulations to the rapporteur for this report. It is a very balanced piece of work covering quite a wide range of views. We should point to progress made so far in liberalising the electricity and the gas markets, in particular opening up electricity to more than 60% of the market so far, while also remembering that we need to keep up the pressure for more progress. It is hard to over-estimate the importance of this process to the competitiveness of our European economies in the widest sense. I know that in the short term it may be difficult to prove that but I am quite sure that in the long term this is a vital part of making our economies competitive in the wider world. I also believe that it is very important for us to distinguish between the processes of market efficiency that liberalization implies and other policy objectives that we may wish to achieve, such as the question of universal supply, such as the aims to reduce CO2 and it is very important to keep those two distinct and separate. I have to say that I share the regret of some colleagues that some countries have been rather backward in implementing these measures and it is ironic that at least one of those countries is that which seeks to accelerate the pace of integration in Europe. St Augustine 'make me more liberalised but not quite yet'. I would like to recognise that the fears of the pessimists that liberalization would lead to cuts in security of supply have been confounded. Private sector provision has delivered the goods. – Mr President, may I say from this side of the House as one who served in the last Parliament that it is a great pleasure to see Mrs Péry here in this Chamber in Parliament. I would like to make several points about this issue of an observatory or monitoring centre. First of all, existing bodies within the EU institutions are already doing this work and are capable of doing it. It seems curious to me to propose another agency, more machinery, and more budgetary expenditure to duplicate work that is already taking place. For example, the Joint Research Centre Institute in Seville that deals with prospective future technologies is looking at this area. The Dublin Institute has been mentioned already. Secondly, governments and other types of public sector organisations do not have a particularly good record or an aptitude for predicting change in industry, in commerce, in business and in enterprise. Nor, in my view, should they try to do that. Let the economy and market forces get on with it. I am curious about the socialist emphasis on industrial change when we in the developed economies now live in a situation in which 20% or less of the work-force is employed in conventional industry and everyone else works in the services sector in the new economy. I am surprised because that emphasis denotes unawareness of this particular form of change. In other words, it is all happening, it has happened already and furthermore it has happened probably despite, rather than because of, the fact that governments second-guess what is going to happen and how it should happen. Moreover, if there is a need for study on an academic or research basis, then it is surely better to use existing bodies. By all means involve the two sides of industry in the research work, but let us not set up yet another EU agency or body. In short, we should not try to reinvent the wheel. Instead, we should leave the economy and the market to get on with it, since this is the best way to promote change and renewal and create new jobs. – Madam President, on a point of order. It is the same point, and for once I agree with Mrs Ahern. This must be a first! – Madam President, I should like to start by congratulating Mrs McNally for her persistence in keeping this report on Parliament's agenda and bringing it to fruition. I welcome the approach adopted in this proposal for a voluntary code. That is a more pragmatic approach towards achieving improvements. Unlike Mrs McNally I see no harm in adopting measures that are in place in the United States. It is one of our aims in Europe to achieve common standards in the internal market. In that regard, why should we not seek to extend those common standards to our major trading partner across the Atlantic? Just because it was invented in the United States does not mean it is all bad. It is very important that we should assist people making choices about purchasing equipment in knowing what the energy efficiency is. In my own experience, labelling materially affects one's decision. It certainly affected my decision this summer when I was buying a fridge and a freezer for my home. The old ones were getting very noisy and very expensive. It may be that my motive was also concern to stop using so much electricity supplied by a company owned by a French utility, but that is another issue. I should like to close by supporting the comments about the amendment, namely, that we all look to the Commission to give us an assurance on the issue of the further voluntary code. This is a healthy and sensible approach. – Mr President, I speak on behalf of our rapporteur, Mrs Matikainen-Kallström, who is unable to be here today. The committee took a common approach in its opinion on the need to improve the quality of action and performance as a way of achieving better value for taxpayers' money. For example, we wish to remind the Commission of the need to achieve higher standards in auditing the research programmes, particularly in the context of the European research area proposals. We also look to the Commission to improve the management of contracts by the Joint Research Centre. This is a theme continued from the past. We are looking for improvement in the management of TACIS and other programmes in the field of nuclear safety in Central and Eastern Europe. We put forward the suggestion of creating a separate budget line for strengthening cooperation on nuclear safety in northern parts of Europe. We observe that the SYNERGY programme seems to have lost some of its priority in the Commission and we wish to see this programme continued successfully. We want more spending on SYNERGY. I turn now to the other report on the coal and steel part of the budget. The committee is very keen on seeing maximum transparency in the disclosure of data concerning the value of the ECSC's assets. We note the Commission's undertaking on the provision of information about these assets and expect this information to be delivered. –Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and my colleagues on working together to achieve the compromise formula and definitions, which have covered a very complicated and technical set of issues. I particularly wish to support the importance of aiming at energy savings over efficiency: we want to use less fuel. I welcome the linkage of support with the environmental benefits that will flow from it. I would like to refer to some concerns expressed by a company in my former constituency and now the south-west region that I represent. They tell me they have supplied co-generation plant over the past 20 years, which has contributed to an estimated annual saving of 700 000 tonnes of carbon, which is a significant saving. They are concerned about this 50-megawatt threshold for eligibility. They want it to be removed as a distortion or potential distortion to investment decisions. They are very keen on the test of eligibility for support to be based on primary energy savings and – a point which has not yet been mentioned – they want the directive to recognise and reward the benefits of utilising waste heat and fuels. That can come from a variety of sources. I wish to raise two concerns of my own. Firstly, we must beware of losing sight of the objectives of this directive beneath this welter of technical detail. Colleagues have referred to the complexities that we have been addressing in committee and sometimes it has been a little obscure what the outcome would be. We must remember that we are looking for primary energy savings. I am concerned about the potential for over-elaborate administrative requirements: too many people being involved in the certification and eligibility procedures. There is always a risk that one can stifle an initiative by too much bureaucracy. However, I would like to broadly commend and support this proposal. We look forward to achieving a good result in the vote tomorrow with the cooperation that we have seen up to now. – Mr President, I should like to address matters of procedure and of substance with regard to the hearings of the candidate Commissioners. In my view these hearings were flawed because there was insufficient time available to the committees to pursue their lines of questioning. I speak from our experience on the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. Because we had to make time available to delegations from other committees, neither the members of my group nor our committee nor the members of the delegations had sufficient time to put all the questions that they wanted to candidate Commissioners Liikanen and Lamy. This is a matter for great regret. The second point where the hearings were flawed was in the failure to hold indicative votes at the end of each hearing. I know there are different views on this issue but it seems to me that without an indicative vote the key element of whether Members feel the candidate Commissioner is competent or not cannot be determined exactly. Let me come to the substance. I have mentioned two candidate Commissioners but there was a third who appeared before us, candidate Commissioner Busquin. It is no coincidence that this was a hearing where there were no delegations from other committees and we had more time to pursue questioning. I am afraid that Mr Busquin did not satisfy a majority of colleagues on the committee either with his answers on his part in past financial scandals or with his answers on his competence with the portfolio and whether he would have a sense of responsibility and leadership appropriate to the tasks facing this Commission. Fresh information has come to light since the hearing in this weekend which casts further doubt on whether Mr Busquin was truthful in his answers to Parliament. I have asked the President to consider this matter. So, I am afraid he would be a flawed Commissioner, Mr Prodi. – Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating my colleague, Mr Langen, on his excellent report which, as he says, was carried through the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, unanimously. I concur with his observation that we must take account of the third report that the Commission has drawn up on world shipbuilding. I hope that the timing of the presentation of that report to Parliament was not a ploy to encourage us to take this item off the agenda. The committee had to vote especially to ensure that this item was on the agenda for debate today. I am grateful that the Commissioner is here, and I hope he takes note of all the points made. There is clear evidence of a crisis in the EU shipbuilding industry and this has been the case for some time. The evidence is set out very effectively in the Commission report. The conclusions seem quite clear that the principal culprit is predatory pricing from the Korean shipbuilding industry. It is doing this to gain market share to our detriment, but not only to the detriment of the European Union industry. Other countries – Japan for one – are also suffering from this. Action clearly must be taken. It seems to me that the Commissioner must show the industry that he is doing all he can in this context to deal with this external threat to our industry. The trade-barrier regulation route is perhaps an incomplete or insufficient instrument for taking action: there has to be more bilateral pressure from the European Union on Korea to press it to come up with solutions, such as pricing its ships properly and fully. In the third report there is a list of actions proposed by the Commission but its observations are rather disappointing: to continue with monitoring, to examine industry's complaint, to remain open to eventual proposals, to pursue efforts, to continue to encourage, to continue to work closely with the industry or to examine the possibilities of measures. I submit that we need more than just examining possibilities and monitoring the industry situation around the world and in Europe. In that context, it is important that the Commission reconsiders the view about extending the time period for temporary support or for permitting temporary support for shipbuilding industries in the European Union until a solution is forthcoming in talks with Korea. – Mr President, energy efficiency is arguably the poor relation in the overall supply situation. We all agree that it is a good thing. But, rather like Saint Augustine, who prayed to God to make him good but not just yet, we tend to put off doing something about it. I wish to congratulate the rapporteur on his determined effort to put this right, both in his report and the initiative that my colleague has referred to for an energy-intelligent Europe – although I confess that I would describe efficiency and conservation more as common sense than intelligence. Everywhere one looks in the energy-rich world we inhabit in Europe, and the USA in particular, one can see examples of energy extravagance, even profligacy. The challenge lies in persuading members of the public of the need to change their ways. The rapporteur lists many sectors where improvements can be made: by public authorities, industry, business and individual consumers. However, I do not believe it is necessary to have an energy chapter in the Treaty, nor to impose punitive taxation in order to impose an improved efficiency. It is better to proceed with a combination of setting higher standards and offering fiscal incentives, coupled with a campaign to persuade people to change. Above all, we must change attitudes and encourage people to look at the world in a different way. That is the way forward to achieve energy efficiency. – I would just like to follow up the response from the President-in-Office of the Council to this question by mentioning the Luxembourg Compromise which we do not hear much of now. The question is asked – the opinion of the Council about federalism – about surrendering sovereignty to majority voting. Is the Luxembourg Compromise still regarded as being in force and being respected and would you not agree that it should be? I mean the compromise by which it is understood that the vital national interests of a Member State will not be overruled by a majority vote in Council. That is my understanding of that compromise. – Mr President, I add my compliments to Mr Alyssandrakis for his report and the work that he brings to this particular field of our committee's activities. My first observation is that the use of space for research and for commercial applications is often overlooked in the wider world because it is not as dramatically exciting as projects like the Apollo moon landings, yet it is extremely important, as this report emphasises. I welcome the objectives set out in the communication for European policy. I confess I particularly like paragraph 10, which calls on the industry to do more about commercial exploitation of space. That is an important way ahead. We want industry to be very much involved in the exploitation of space. It seems to me that this report is something of an appetiser – or hors d'oeuvre – for the Galileo report, which we will be considering next month in our Strasbourg part-session. Paragraph 12 in particular refers to Galileo as being part of the European strategy and to its importance for transport. We should take careful note of that. We have to recognise the difficulties in obtaining funding for space exploitation, space research, space utilisation. I particularly welcome also the reference in the report to the need for international cooperation drawing in other powers and partners. I come back to the question of using military applications for peacekeeping operations. To be realistic, we need funding from defence budgets for space projects in a number of fields. We should not be frightened of drawing on that source of funding for applications intended for peacekeeping. That is very important to emphasise. I regret that Mr Alyssandrakis has taken fright at my reference to military applications. He should take more note of the phrase "peacekeeping operations". Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on bringing together into his report the different strands of opinion that were expressed in the debate. It is significant that after much debate in committee only one additional amendment has been tabled over and above those adopted in committee. I am one of those who accepted the argument for the need for a regulation to give effect to and make binding the voluntary code on guidelines for good practice agreed at the Madrid forum, and I and my Group therefore support this proposal for a regulation. The rapporteur states the case very well in his explanatory statement and I can do no more than commend his analysis to colleagues and make a recommendation to adopt. We must recognise that the industry was not of one view on this matter, with the incumbent network or transmission system operators resisting change, while most of the other operators, be they upstream or downstream, strongly endorsed the underlying principle embodied in the Commission proposal. This measure should assist new entrants. In order for competition to flourish and for benefits to flow from it in terms of better service to consumers, greater efficiency as regards both energy and market forces, enhanced security of supply, greater flexibility and increased innovation, there must be a clear regulatory framework. This measure takes us a long way towards genuine and full liberalisation and I congratulate the rapporteur and the Commissioner on their efforts in this regard. .  Mr President, perhaps I can reassure Mrs van den Burg that the concerns of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs were rather carried over into the debate on the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, and indeed a number of the amendments that were adopted by us in our opinion at first reading were, in my view as draftsman, more appropriate to your committee. Nevertheless, the opinion that we put forward reflected the concerns of a majority of our members and those concerns were particularly directed at the need for, and importance of, employee information and consultation. A number of amendments concerned informing the employees of the target or offeree company, and another amendment concerned the importance of consulting the employees of the offeror or predatory company. The second area of concern to us, where we were in line with a number of other committees, is the issue of jurisdiction. We felt it very important that jurisdiction should be in the Member State of the offeree company to avoid any ambiguity or confusion. We also put forward an amendment covering the issue of jurisdiction on bids originating from companies in countries outside the European Union – third countries – and the need for those to be subject to national authorisation within. A third area of concern which was addressed in the opinion of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy was that of the Scandinavian countries in particular over multiple classes of shares. Those were the three points that our committee was concerned about. .  Mr President, we now come to a measure of great length, weight, size, volume, thickness and complexity with the capacity to affect a wide range of instruments. National legislation on measurements and measuring instruments has been with us a long time. It precedes European legislation and reflects the importance of accuracy of measurement on the daily life of people. All EU and developed countries have metrological institutes charged with the task of establishing traceability of measurement results. The first question to ask is: why the interest in measuring instruments? The answer is because all developed countries have complex economies which need a minimum level of measurement accuracy for fair trading in the public interest. Thus all legislation is based on the premise that the public interest is served if measuring instruments are subjected to legislative requirements that guarantee this minimum level of accuracy. A number of concepts or issues are raised in this proposal. Optionality: Amendment No 2 essentially states that a Member State will be free to decide whether or not to regulate in this field. However, Member State legislation should not act as a technical barrier to completion of the internal market, nor cause unfair competition. Regarding harmonised standards, in order to meet the essential requirements for any of the instruments covered by this directive, the manufacturer must show conformity in one of three ways as made clear in Amendment No 21. It is important that manufacturers have the choice between the requirements in new Annex 2, together with the detail of the instrument-specific annexes M1 to M10, or by applying the relevant European harmonised standard, or by compliance with the relevant parts of the normative documents adopted by the OIML and approved by the new measuring instruments advisory committee and published in the Official Journal. This advisory committee also has an important regulatory role which is why new Compromise Amendment No 30 is so crucial in requiring proper consultations with representatives of interested parties i.e. the industry and practitioners. Perhaps the most important improvement to the common position lies in Compromise Amendment No 32: the joint declaration of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission regarding conformity assessment procedures. It has been a matter of much concern to your rapporteur that there is inconsistency between the conformity assessment modules in Council Decision 93/465/EEC and Annexes A to H1 of the common position. After much discussion, the compromise position has yielded a commitment to review both texts and bring forward a full set of coherent conformity assessments very soon, which I believe will make industry much more content. In which context I thank the presidency for its measured but constructive approach and I thank the Commission for being instrumental in finding the compromise text. One matter remains before this long process reaches conclusion. That concerns our desire to distinguish between manufacturers and traders in the definition of terms in this proposal. If the Commissioner is willing to give an undertaking that he will include a review of the definitions in the overall review of the conformity modules I am mandated by the committee to withdraw Amendments Nos 3 and 11. We naturally expect the Council to respect the spirit of cooperation and compromise involved so as to shorten the procedure. I shall close by thanking my shadow rapporteur, Mr Glante, other colleagues, and the staff of the committee for their helpful and constructive work on this proposal. – Madam President, my report, which was to have been debated and voted on this week, has been deferred. My understanding was that it had been deferred to the sitting on 3 November but I cannot see it on the draft agenda. Could you advise me whether that is an oversight or whether it is going to be deferred again. I shall begin to feel that this report should be renamed: “The deferral”! – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his statement this afternoon on the programme of work being undertaken by the Commission for improving safety in civil nuclear installations in Central and Eastern Europe. I ask myself, having listened quite carefully to the Commissioner, whether there is any new information in the statement that he has made. He has given us a fair amount of detail and a fair number of promises about what is happening or will happen. I note the time-scale of some of his comments that reactors will be shut down early in 2006 and 2008 – I will come to the question of whether a reactor should be shut down or not and how quickly in a moment. I must agree with the Commissioner and the Commission position on the primacy of safety issues. I think we can all agree that where nuclear power stations and nuclear installations are concerned, it is absolutely essential that safety, safety of operation, safety of construction and design, be given top priority. For obvious reasons, public opinion has to be assured that this is the case. I also agree that it is essential for countries which are largely dependent upon nuclear power plants for their electricity and energy that closure programmes are phased to allow time to provide replacement capacity. In some countries, when reactors have had to be shut down, there has been a loss of electricity which has caused severe hardship. You have to weigh up that consideration with the debatable issue about safety. We also have to bear in mind that we are still negotiating with countries which are sovereign, independent states and we have to respect their internal procedures. We are in a slightly sensitive position in terms of telling them or asking them or assisting them to do things that we want to do, but that they may not be enthusiastic about doing themselves. The question is that if a reactor is safe to run until 2006, why is it not safe to run for its full economic life? If it is unsafe it should be closed down immediately. That is the conundrum that faces us. I feel, with respect to the Commissioner, that you have not quite addressed that conundrum this afternoon. – Mr President, perhaps I can assist the Commissioner here. Last night Commissioner de Palacio gave the House an assurance that if the proposal were to be rejected, she would not seek to reintroduce it. – Mr President, I, too, would like to congratulate Commissioner Lamy on securing such improved terms and a deal with China. After such a long history of negotiations clearly all that was needed was the question from our committee to push the matter to a conclusion. Recently I was visiting Taiwan where people clearly hope that the accession of China to the WTO will lead to improved cross-strait relations, and we must welcome that. I would have referred to Commissioner Patten knowing well the difficulties of dealing and negotiating with China, but he has already mentioned that. The prospect of a change in the duty on spirits from 65% to 10% will be a most welcome one in certain parts of the whisky-producing areas of the UK. I look forward to sharing that news with them in liberal and liquid fashion. On a larger scale the position achieved in access to, and faster opening up of, the telecoms market is also good news. China has such huge potential in this market for growth, and European operators have a great opportunity as world leaders looking for new markets. I welcome this step in the further integration of China into the world economy but we must recall the emphasis that we, in the European Union, place upon other values in addition to trade. In that context I would like to call, on behalf of my British Conservative colleagues, for European Parliament participation in the half-yearly dialogue on human rights. If this Parliament were part of that dialogue we might exert additional pressure for improvement in that field. I hope the Commissioner will listen carefully to that suggestion. – Mr President, since this voting session is a continuation of the lunch-time voting session, would I be correct in thinking that the few roll-call votes in which we have participated this afternoon will count as part of our daily count, and that this has direct relevance to the earlier vote on whether we had a quorum or not? Perhaps you could let me know later. – Mr President, the arrest at the weekend of Aung San Suu Kyi, the leader of the Burmese National League for Democracy, is deplorable and shows that the military regime in Burma has no intention of democratic reform. Reports of personal injuries are all the more alarming. This turn of events also calls into question the effectiveness of EU action against the military dictatorship. We demand the immediate release of Aung San Suu Kyi, as well as the release of all political prisoners and the lifting of restrictions against the NLD, universities and other institutions. The very worrying deterioration in the political situation in the last few days is just the latest twist in a story of consistent human rights abuses. Anyone who expresses opposition to the regime is subject to harassment and arrest and goes in fear of their life. Ethnic minorities such as the Karin and the Shan continue to suffer violent oppression, and there are over 130 000 refugees in camps on the Thai-Burma border. Regrettably we witness yet another example where the efforts of the European Union and the wider international community to encourage change have brought few tangible results. Clearly we have not yet hit the regime where it hurts. The EU's extension of its travel ban against the regime, and assets freeze, were agreed in April but suspended until October in the hope of some improvement in the situation. The situation has clearly deteriorated, and the Council should take action immediately to implement the measures that it agreed in its common position. This situation could best be resolved if the Burmese regime were to respect the results of the 1990 elections, as the international community has consistently demanded. – Mr President, I rise on behalf of my group but also on behalf of my colleague Lord Bethell, who takes a particular concern and interest in this matter. The fate of Alexander Nikitin is particularly relevant to a topical and urgent debate. Next Tuesday he is due to appear in court in Russia. I believe this is the sixth time that he will appear in court. He is indicted on a charge of high treason, which is a very strong and extreme charge and for what? For addressing a matter of public interest, of environmental interest to the whole of Europe. Under this charge he faces a possible death sentence. This is an extreme sanction and this House and the European institutions should send a very powerful message to Russia that it should re-think this issue, the charges should be dropped and it should respect our call for his immediate release. In the context of the earlier debate on ending the death penalty, it is very relevant that we should call upon the Russian authorities to respect our views, the views of Europe, as to whether he should be indicted and what the sanction should be. So I very much support the calls for Mr Nikitin to be immediately released and found not guilty of the charges. – Mr President, first of all I should declare an interest. I am the absentee boss of a very small enterprise, our family business in London. I will not say what it does, that might constitute an advertisement, but it was founded by my father, Francis Chichester, and I am very proud of it. It also enables me to come here and do my work for my constituents. I would like to welcome any measures, like this proposal and this report, that indicate our support at European level for the importance of SMEs and small businesses in particular. I would like to congratulate Mrs Montfort on all her hard work in her report which, as we have heard, commands wide support across the House. In my view, the best thing for small businesses is for the authorities to leave them alone and to desist from the temptation of trying to pick winners. Diversity, safety in numbers, from which the winners will emerge, is the best way forward. I am reminded of what the Commissioner said to us a year ago about the experience in the United States, where they are not afraid of failure and they believe in the old Scottish proverb of "if at first you don't succeed, try, try again". The importance is to strike the right balance, to avoid having a continual situation of people failing at the expense of other people. I suspect that the real obstacles and hurdles that small businesses face are in other areas of European and national legislation, where they face great burdens in terms of administration, taxation and regulation. That seems very onerous indeed for small businesses, disproportionately so. I recently looked at the forms required for filling in tax returns for small businesses in the UK and the detail required great concentration on getting the right answer. Let me close by saying that in my view the most important thing for small businesses, the best medicine for them, is competition. That is the way they achieve efficiency, innovation and profitability. – Mr President, should you not be asking us to vote for the text? You are changing the vote around and reversing it. A "yes" vote should be for keeping the text and a "no" vote should be against the text surely? The last time you did this it was rather confusing. – Madam President, I recently visited the JRC at Ispra and it served to remind me firstly of the great amount of good work across the wide range of research activity that is carried out there and, secondly, of the historical legacy from the site's origins as a nuclear research facility. In particular, I saw the need to open up stores of waste which were deemed fit some decades ago and met the requirements of the time, but now do not meet our current high standards. We must bear in mind that times change and the standards change with them. I note that the procedure proposed by the Commission for the financing of the decommissioning and waste management work on the research reactors has a familiar ring to it. It sounds rather like the Tomlinson procedure which was adopted for financing Parliament's building in Brussels. That was by transferring unexpended funds in odds and ends of budget lines on a year-by-year basis. So, perhaps colleagues should be cautious before we criticise this proposal. I recognise the widespread view that funds should not be taken from research lines under the Fifth Framework and that research money should not be used for this purpose. I see a certain irony in such thoughts coming from those people who also demand the internalisation of external costs, i.e. the inclusion of decommissioning costs in the overall cost structure, when the procedure now put before us is pretty much the same thing. I support the proposal for a trialogue. It seems the sensible approach. The work must be done and has to be paid for somehow. I am very sorry to hear colleagues propagating ancient myths like "no solution has been found for dealing with nuclear waste". I am afraid Mrs Ahern has lost contact with the facts in this matter because she is quite wrong in her statement, and we should not let such myths distract us from the issue at hand. – It is very important that we retain a sense of perspective, a sense of proportion about this issue and I welcome the balanced response from Commissioner Wallström. It is very important that we stick to facts and avoid some of the wilder claims that have been put in the Green motion for a resolution on this issue. I want to emphasise that safety was not compromised in the incident of record falsification. I would like to quote also from the NII report that the fuel manufactured in MDF, the MOX Demonstration Facility, will be safe in use in spite of incomplete quality assurance records caused by the falsification of some acceptable quality-level data by process workers in the facility. The NII takes this view on the basis of the robustness of the fuel manufacturing process and the totality of the checks made on the key parameters. I would also like to draw colleagues' attention to the positive response by BNFL to the two reports made by the NII, one on the records incident and the other on the control and safety management regime at Sellafield. I welcome the response and their three key recommendations to improve the safety management system and management structure by implementing a comprehensive overhaul of the safety management system across the company. To improve resource availability by taking on more monitoring staff, by improved training and further emphasising the safety culture and thirdly, to improve independent inspection, audit and review by appointing independent senior compliance inspectors and the like. BNFL has responded positively to the 28 recommendations in one report and 15 recommendations in the other, the falsification report. I do not propose to go through those in great detail. I have no time. Let us not lose sight of the fundamentals here. Regulatory safety mechanisms worked in this instance. Members of the staff reported the error and then the regulatory procedures took their course. There was no actual breach of safety, only a breach of record-keeping regulations for one particular customer. The offence of falsification of records must not negate or obscure the long-term case for reprocessing or MOX fuel assemblies. Both of these are forms of recycling. Both of them are effective ways of reducing, of concentrating waste and in the case of MOX manufacture are the best answer known presently to the issue of safe disposal of weapons grade plutonium. I welcome the Western European Nuclear Regulators Association WENRA which was formed just over a year ago in February 1999. I welcome their launching of a project aimed at harmonising its members' safety rules and practices. The regulators themselves are undertaking this job across Member States: who better to undertake that task? The result will be an enhanced safety culture and that is to be welcomed by all. – Mr President, I welcome the statement from the Commissioner. Having spent a lot of time at sea myself I am well aware of the sea's power and destructive force, which make a proper design and maintenance of ships and boats essential. I would like to express my sympathy with all those who are dealing with the consequences of the breaking up and sinking of the oil tanker Erika. This has been an environmental disaster as well as a deplorable waste of resources. It should be noted that the oil industry, through the International Oil Pollution Compensation Funds, regards itself as liable under the 1969 Convention and its 1992 Protocol, for over 90% of the estimated cost of this incident, or some USD 170 million. This suggests to me that we should also look to the shipowners, to the flag state and the inspection authorities to shoulder their share of the responsibility. However, before we rush in with a whole raft of new measures and new regulations, let us look carefully at the existing arrangements to be sure that they are being properly implemented. Better to heed calls to amend and improve existing legislation than to embark on new proposals. In that context I support calls to strengthen port state control to ensure full and effective inspection. I support calls to ensure that the classification societies effectively monitor vessels' structural conditions and are held accountable for their actions. Calls for design improvements in hull construction, especially double-hulled vessels, are sensible but take time to be implemented throughout the fleet. They are no substitute for rigorous regular inspection. – Madam President, my request was a clarification. If we get to vote on the original text of that paragraph, if we get past the vote on the amendment, at that point I want to propose a vote on the words "and socially-balanced" separately from the rest of the text. I am not proposing an oral amendment. We should proceed to vote the amendment first. Depending on the result of that, my point is that I am proposing a separate vote on the original text. So I am not proposing an oral amendment. – Madam Chairman, I rise with regard to an item on the agenda for Wednesday, 15 September. I am rather surprised to see a procedure without debate on a report under the name of Mr Westendorp. I have the document of this report in which it says that the committee voted it. I was in attendance in the committee at this time and I am not aware that this report was voted. I think there has been a misunderstanding or a mistake within the secretariat of the committee. I am giving advance notice that this is a matter subject to a query and that we may have to object to this item on the agenda. – Mr President, on a point of order. Having heard the Commissioner and the budget spokesman, I am happy to withdraw my objection. Madam President, I should like to thank Mr Bébéar for his excellent report. NEPAD is a vision, a concept in the minds of African heads of state, covering the whole African continent, and sets out a strategic framework for Africa's renewal. This vision must include a democratic voice via a parliament and the involvement of civil society. It is, however, the African Union that should be the main instigator of policies laid down under NEPAD, based on regional integration. The objectives and principles are everything that we in Europe would ask for and insist on, including eradication of poverty, raising the status of Africa on the world scene, making good governance a basic requirement, building a peaceful, secure and stable continent able to energise its economies to take advantage of world trade, and trying to ensure that the millennium development goals in the area of health and education are met. In Europe we are already assisting with all these objectives. We must continue to support and encourage the NEPAD vision, but action would speak louder than words. It will take very large sums of money to achieve these goals. One can only hope that the oil-rich states will contribute. With peace and stability, there are huge natural reserves that could also help them achieve their vision. With a peer review body, one hopes that the heads of African states will now take responsibility for their own destiny and that the problems of instability and poverty will be eradicated, with human rights being a top priority, especially for women and children. – Mr President, in relation to the point that you raised after Commissioner Fischler had spoken. I feel the noise in this Chamber is an absolute disgrace. I know all the Presidents try desperately to stop it. I suggest the presidency look at possibly having a five-minute break between the end of Commissioners' statements and the vote. We cannot continue to allow Commissioners to be treated this way. .  Mr President, any petition which receives 1.9 million signatures deserves to be treated seriously. I congratulate Mr De Rossa on his excellent report and the way in which he presented it today. Firstly, can the Commissioner confirm that the action plan only covers tropical areas, and in particular the continent of Africa, and does not in any way impinge on hunting in the European Union, as some people are interpreting it? Sensible action is vital and urgent for three reasons. Firstly, as Mr De Rossa has said, at least 150 million of the world's poorest people regard wildlife as a vital livelihood asset. Commercial hunting, the exploitation of timber and the opening-up of the forests are destroying the ecological balance and depriving local inhabitants of their food and livelihood. Secondly, the totally indiscriminate killing of great ape species will wipe out gorillas and chimpanzees, which in countries such as Rwanda are a major sustainable tourist attraction and source of income that will be lost forever. The devastation of forests will also obliterate an ecology if logging is not urgently brought under control. There is a third even more important point. The illegal exporting of bushmeat to all corners of the globe could have a devastating effect on health that would make SARS look like the common cold. Many gorillas and chimpanzees carry SIV, the animal equivalent of HIV, which can jump to humans – and has done so. That would be bad enough, but if ebola-infected meat reaches the world market, we could see a catastrophe far worse than HIV. Recently, 2 000 monkey noses were found in a suitcase at Amsterdam airport, showing that the illegal trade is thriving. This resolution urges the Commission to adopt a series of measures, which I hope it will. However, making Heads of State in bushmeat countries aware of the situation and getting them, as the Commissioner has said, to take the lead in action to safeguard ecosystems and the wildlife they support would be a major step forward. – Mr President, I hope the lack of attendance at this debate tonight is due to the late hour and not to the way in which I have chaired the two Assemblies we are talking about over the last year. I sincerely thank the rapporteur, not just for his report and the way he has presented it tonight, but for the very hard work he does both in the ACP and in the Development Committee. I have prepared this report twice. I know how hard it is to find fresh ideas and yet he has come forward not only with fresh ideas but with extremely good points that we have now tried to incorporate in our rules for the future. The past year has been a watershed for the ACP/EU partnership. There was a lot of resistance about going to Abuja, in Nigeria last year. But I felt that it was vitally important that we were seen to support this fledgling democracy. That turned out to be one of the best Assemblies we have ever had. As Mr Howitt has just said, it was very much a look back at the past and a debate about future partnership agreements. But the real benefit of visiting these developing countries is not just the Assembly, it is speaking to people involved in development work there and speaking to those who are helped because we in Europe give that development aid. At the Assembly in Brussels we took the first steps towards realigning the Assembly to fit the Cotonou Agreement. As co-president I am determined we will have a workshop and not a talking-shop from now on. We have built many of Mr Martínez Martínez's ideas into the new rules. We are now a parliamentary assembly. We can involve civil society – this is desperately important. I want to see standing committees that do real work rather than the workshops that we have. I want to see a real North-South partnership leading to poverty eradication and I want to see the assembly take a leading role in conflict prevention and conflict resolution. – Mr President, reproduction and sexual health and rights are a very important issue for developing countries where so much could be done to alleviate maternal deaths and the by-product ills of illegal abortions. Health care is desperately needed yet, as this bundle of e-mails shows, it is also a highly sensitive subject and one that must be treated with respect by those at both ends of the spectrum. I would therefore begin by thanking Mrs Sandbæk for the long negotiations she has had, firstly with the Council and Commission representatives, and then with the co-ordinators, the political parties in this House. In any such sensitive issue, no one will be completely happy with the outcome. That is why - even with the strong feelings I have on this subject - I genuinely believe that the compromise reached in the Committee on Development and Cooperation gives us a package that this House should accept. I know there is a problem with the budget aspects of this report, but I hope that the amendments tabled are acceptable so that this report can have a clear majority in favour at first reading. It would be a tragedy for sick women in developing countries if this report were delayed in any way because of budget technicalities. The facts speak for themselves. At least 75% of all maternal deaths and injuries could and should be prevented through reproductive health care. Reproductive health in the context of this report covers all areas related to reproduction and associated diseases such as HIV-AIDS. Through long-term investment in reproductive health supplies, services and the appropriate counselling much can be done to stop unwanted pregnancies and to go some way to controlling the spread of sexually-transmitted diseases. I sincerely hope that honourable Members of this House will support this report. – Mr President, this short debate takes place against a background of increasing tension in Zimbabwe. All of us who speak should remember that every word of our speeches and the resolution will be eagerly read in Zimbabwe within the next 48 hours by all sides. We must, therefore, all encourage Zimbabwe to move towards elections in May. The old parliament was dissolved on 11 April and President Mugabe pledged at the EU-Africa Summit in Cairo that the elections would go ahead. It is therefore worrying that constituency boundaries have yet to be set. This could take up to three months. I hope that, when the elections are called, observers from Europe will be invited to Zimbabwe to monitor the proceedings. This would show real transparency. It is not for Europe to meddle in the internal affairs of any nation. African countries must work together to consolidate their future. However, the old Lomé Convention made democracy, human rights and the rule of law a requirement for development aid. The new Partnership Agreement goes further and asks for good governance. All we ask is that disputes of any kind be settled through courts and not in open conflict. I particularly highlight land issues. Zimbabwe has much to gain from the Partnership Agreement and urgently needs aid and debt relief. Much of this could go to rural areas for agreed land resettlement. It is disappointing that Zimbabwe feels the need to be involved in the war in the Democratic Republic of Congo at a time when precious resources could be spent on domestic requirements, such as education and health. We all look forward to the rule of law being strengthened and a democratisation process fully operating under an independent judiciary to allow civil society to express its wishes through a fair and open press. The Zimbabwean people must be given a chance to choose their future. – Mr President, as a farmer I declare an interest. I join in the praise for the rapporteur, Mr Schwaiger, who has put much work into this excellent report. As draftsman for the Committee on Development and Cooperation, my interest is naturally on the effect a new WTO round will have on developing nations. A week ago I was convinced that, with hard bargaining, there was some hope a deal could be struck to give a fair balance between providing reasonable protection to the EU industries and agriculture on the one hand and market access for developing countries’ goods on the other. Now that an agreement has been reached between the USA and China, I wonder what chance small nations like Lesotho or Swaziland have in a globalised free trade market. Only strong regional cooperation will give them a chance of survival. This round on liberalisation of trade takes place at a time when the gap between developed and less-developed countries is continuing to grow. In fact, for large numbers of people in the least-developed countries, there are no benefits. The agenda of the Millennium Round comprises only agriculture and services, but the Commission rightly wants a much more comprehensive round. As far as agriculture is concerned, the EU will be unable to avoid further concessions in market access. The EU cannot pay compensation to its agricultural producers and at the same time block market access for third countries. But, in return, the developing countries must improve their core environmental standards and accept that this is not yet another form of protectionism. The Development Committee wants to see WTO rules that do not hamper eco-labelling schemes and green public purchasing. It also calls for a joint standing working party on trade, globalisation and labour issues to be set up by the ILO and the WTO. It calls for an in-depth revision of the TRIPS Agreement and stresses that the patenting of life must definitely be excluded from the TRIPS Agreement. It wants to see animal welfare included in discussions. The EU must not be bullied by the USA into accepting an agreement that is detrimental to the developing world. US domination of the WTO must end. – Madam President, I want to concentrate on the Solomon Islands, but first just a word on Fiji. My ACP-EU Vice-President is one of those held hostage and I would ask you to send a letter of support to his family. The ACP-EU delegation went to the Solomon Islands to study the ethnic tension. It was quite clear after talks that a coup was imminent. Why did it happen? When we arrived we found a complete vacuum. There was no dialogue between the warring parties. The parliament was not functioning. There was no law and order, as those who were police by day were Malaitan militants by night and they opened their armouries to the Malaitans on the morning of the coup. 99.9% of Guadalcanal is held by the IMF group and only Honiara City is held by the Malaitans. This situation is unsustainable. The ethnic conflict is all about the expulsion from Guadalcanal of 40 000 Malaitans back to their own island, to severe hardship, without any compensation. As they did all the work, Guadalcanal is now at a standstill in both rural and urban areas. The presence of Mrs Kinnock and myself did influence the situation for the better. We created dialogue. We had the 48-hour resignation demand on the prime minister withdrawn. We advised them to recall Parliament and have a debate on the situation and this has now happened. Amazingly the leader of the opposition is now the prime minister. All this happened because we pointed out the European Union could withdraw aid if the coup took place at the point of a gun. That aid is 25% of their GDP. But the country is bankrupt and the new prime minister will face the same problems as the last. He must make the parliamentary structure more active, work towards a cease-fire and then have talks on compensation with outside assistance. Outside help will also be needed to regain law and order. I should like to finish by thanking the members of the delegation office there who were so helpful to us. – Mr President, I suppose I can start on a note of slight optimism in that President Mugabe has now named the days for the election as 24 and 25 June. But on the down side, he is increasing all the army and civil servants’ pay as a straight bribe. I sincerely hope that Members of this Parliament will have the chance to act as observers, as these elections must be seen to have been free, fair and transparent in the atmosphere of fear that President Mugabe has created. Only last month we passed a resolution in this Chamber condemning violence, calling for the return to full democracy and for free and fair elections to be held. Some of these demands have now hopefully been implemented, but not before another white farmer had been murdered. We all accept that there must be a redistribution of the best land in Zimbabwe, but this must be done through round table negotiations, and not with the violent acts we have seen over the last few months. President Mugabe has now set up a committee of white farmers and Mugabe supporters, hopefully to reach a sensible agreement on land redistribution. President Mugabe should never forget the economic damage that will be done to Zimbabwe’s economy if land redistribution simply means the land goes back to subsistence farming in small blocks. There are few people in the rabble we have seen invading farms who could afford the employees, the machinery, seeds and fertilisers to farm these units to give a potential export output. I have seen some of the farms that were reclaimed some years ago by Mr Mugabe and most of the fertile productive land has reverted to bush and the buildings and farmhouses are now crumbling ruins. What a waste in a country dependent on agricultural exports! Over the last few years, there has been a move to persuade political leaders in African regions to carry more responsibility for conflict prevention. It was, therefore, gratifying to hear Nelson Mandela criticising the policies of the Zimbabwe president who is destroying his country. I am sorry that President Mbeki, his successor, who is probably the most powerful leader in Africa, has not in public condemned the violence in Zimbabwe. We in Parliament are right to call on the Commission to review its development cooperation with Zimbabwe if transparent elections are not held or if the opposition wins and the violence continues. The use of Article 366 should be considered. The World Bank has now cut funding because of debt arrears and Zimbabwe, as a country, is in liquidation. We can but live and hope that a peaceful conclusion can be reached in Zimbabwe as it is the people themselves who are suffering most in this unstable situation the country finds itself in. – Mr President, I warmly welcome the extension and modification of the Food Aid Convention and thank the rapporteur for her work on this report. The Commission proposal comes in for some criticism from the Budgets Committee in that there is no complete financial statement. I have to say, with the fluid nature of food aid it must be extremely difficult to project accurate financial figures. Now that the scope of aid has been widened, quite rightly in my opinion, from just cereals, this would be even more difficult. I am particularly pleased to read in the new Convention that least-developed countries and low-income countries will be given priority when food aid is being allocated. I am also pleased to see stronger provisions for promoting local agricultural development and local purchases as this also assists local economies and encourages local agriculture. There are now many areas of sub-Saharan Africa where, unless there is a dramatic climate change for the better, it is unlikely that food will ever grow again. I am thinking particularly of areas where the desert is literally burying the productive land. We are now seeing in Ethiopia an even more desperate situation, where food aid is being provided but there is no water to cook with. This is an issue that will have to be addressed in the future. Water will become more valuable than oil in future in developing countries. It is also good news that the new Convention covers transport costs and associated operational costs. Even if again this comes in for criticism from the Budgets Committee, it is not much good delivering food aid to a country’s ports if you cannot then distribute it to the remote areas by truck or by air to the people starving and in need. There is no doubt that past programmes have had a beneficial effect where they can be carried out and the fact that sub-Saharan Africa has a steady and worryingly increasing problem probably reflects the instability in many of these countries caused by war. This has increased the number of refugees dramatically and worsened the problem of providing food aid. The continuous need for an international, legally binding framework which defines and provides the commitments and instruments for the delivery of food aid to the developing countries is obvious. The extension of the Convention and the new rules that have been introduced must therefore be warmly welcomed. – Madam President, I wish to begin by welcoming Commissioner Patten’s statement, which sets out the truth about our European assistance. Once again, we see the scenes on our TV screens of starving children in Ethiopia and we remember the horrors of the last famine in the Horn of Africa. Once again, we have pop stars and celebrities criticising the institutions of Europe and national governments for doing too little too late. It is amazing how quickly some people become experts when a situation like this arises and they can see some publicity, without knowing more of the background to the overall position. Somalia is war-torn into small fiefdoms, which makes it extremely difficult for anyone – institutions or NGOs – to deliver food aid to the starving people. Who does one negotiate with in such a situation? Ethiopia is engaged in a border dispute with Eritrea, which means most of the manpower is tied up on a war front and much-needed food is being diverted in both countries to feed soldiers rather than starving children. Of course we must do everything in our power to alleviate famine. However, where countries are at war, all our aid must be humanitarian and channelled through NGO organisations to ensure that aid goes to the starving people and not to the war front. We must watch the situation in Eritrea and balance humanitarian aid there, if required. We desperately want these two countries to sign a peace agreement through the efforts of the OAU so that we can resume full development aid to both countries. I recently spent a week in both Ethiopia and Eritrea. I visited refugee camps in both countries and saw for myself the hardship and the poverty people are suffering. It is not true to say that Ethiopia has not been crying for help for food aid over the past two years, but the war situation has blurred the vision of many looking on. When I was there they were pleading for help. I saw children with serious malnutrition and in need of health care, as well as food and proper shelter. I saw families living in caves, the walls running with water, and listened to the hacking coughs of children racked with fever. It looks bad on TV; it is a hundred times worse when you stand amongst it, when people are in such dire situations. However, I saw food aid being delivered in Eritrea by German NGOs to a camp of 16 000 people, spread over 7 kilometres in case of bombing raids. I watched two strong men lifting 50-kg bags on to women’s backs and saw them stagger off to their plastic shelters kilometres away. I saw children aged eight walking eight kilometres out and eight kilometres back to get water. They were the lucky ones: they were the ones with food. We never seem to learn a lesson from the past. It should not be TV cameras and pop stars who alert us to starvation and drought: there should be a proper monitoring system in the sensitive areas of the African continent. Perhaps this could be built into Commissioner Patten’s rapid reaction unit we heard of yesterday. We must have action and we must have action decisively and urgently. – Mr President, when one hears of the horrendous debt that has built up in many African states, the first reaction is one of deep sympathy. However, I have had the privilege of visiting many of these countries in the past year and I have to say that, in many cases, one’s sympathy turns to anger when one sees the abject poverty that people in these countries live in while their leaders and ministers revel in wealth and prosperity and one begins to question the distribution of aid and debt relief. Despite all the help given from Europe, individual nation states and institutions, Africa’s external debt is growing by about 12% per annum and some countries are repaying more in interest than they are receiving in aid. That cannot be allowed to continue, but neither can the historic reasons for causing it to happen. I will be criticised by some honourable Members for saying it, but conditionality must be built into not only development aid but also debt relief. I have always maintained that good governance was more important than pure democracy if you are going to stamp out corrupt practices, and if we cannot wipe these practices out we are only pouring good money after bad. We must therefore be in a position to monitor the effect of debt relief and make sure that all of it is spent on civil society to give better health, education and employment prospects to the people who are being denied it. There is a secondary effect of bad governance and that is the lack of external investment into these countries which denies them the chance of improved prosperity, better employment prospects and a higher standard of living. The fight against fraud and corruption should be made a condition for allocating debt relief and development aid – not my words, Mr President, but the words of President Obasanjo of Nigeria in Abuja at the opening of the 13th session of the ACP-EU Assembly. If only that could be echoed by every other president in Africa, the resistance to giving debt relief would diminish and some real progress could be made in alleviating the misery and poverty of millions of people. – Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent report on linking relief, rehabilitation and development. It is an enormously important subject, fraught with problems. There is no doubt at all that there is an increase in disasters worldwide, both man-made, as in Afghanistan, and natural, such as in Goma, DRC. It needs the full cooperation of all parties to have most effect: the donors, the beneficiaries, implementing parties like governments and NGOs, and bilateral aid. In Afghanistan we have seen the bombing and destruction that has taken place. That will mean urgent and instant relief, the rehabilitation of millions of refugees and development aid. It was horrifying to see in today's paper that a poor family has sold its twelve-year-old daughter into marriage just to get enough food to feed the rest of the family. This is tragic. So getting aid to those most in need is absolutely vital and that requires local knowledge and the right kind of aid. Two weeks ago ECHO informed the Committee on Development and Cooperation that the situation in Goma was totally under control and that everything that was required was there. That very night we heard NGOs stating on the television that 90,000 were starving and that babies were already dying. Is this opportunism, accurate evidence or over-reacting? It is almost impossible to plan for natural disasters. It is better to have a centralised European depot that can react quickly in an appropriate way. Linkage is all about cooperation and one body being responsible for decisions. – Mr President, I am sure the Commissioner would agree that writing the report is the easy bit. The practical implementation is the difficult bit. When this rapid reaction force actually comes together, will it work in certain cases at a regional basis as well as an individual nation basis? There are situations, such as that in the Horn of Africa, which cover more than one state. The problems in the Great Lakes region cover a number of countries. It would be useful if you could link these problems on a regional basis and act from that point. Would the Commissioner agree with that? – Mr President, I welcome the fact that the Cairo EU-African summit took place, but I must stress my disappointment that no one from this democratically elected Parliament had the opportunity to address the summit, nor did NGOs have any input. At the very least, the two Co-Presidents of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly could have made statements and this would have given an EU-African balance. Members of this Parliament, through the Committee on Development and Cooperation and the ACP-EU Joint Assembly, have laid the foundation for many of the policies in the developing countries: the Martens report in 1997 pointing to the benefits of the Lomé Agreement; the Rocard report in 1998 strengthening the objectives for the future; my own report in 1999 on regional cooperation and integration which is top of the Cairo plan of action agenda; lastly, Mrs Kinnock's excellent report in 2000 on the future ACP-EU partnership agreement that sets the scene for the next 20 years. The final Cairo plan of action is an excellent document if we can now turn words and good intentions into concrete actions. I know debt relief was at the top of the African agenda and everything must be done to alleviate poverty, but we must have some evidence that funds saved go towards better health care, better education and an improved standard of living for people and not into arms and war materials. For these ideas to come to fruition, African countries themselves have to make the effort towards good governance. We have already seen some good election results. Let us hope that we can see the same happening in Zimbabwe, Ivory Coast and Togo in the forthcoming elections. The top priority of regional cooperation and integration should have strong political benefits as well as trade ones. With only 6% of African trade being carried out in Africa there is huge potential for an increase in trade if tariff barriers and trade barriers are removed. Many of these countries will need both time and financial help to compete in the world market, but these countries must understand there is no other option in this new era of globalisation. This is all unattainable without peace and peace-building; conflict prevention, management and resolution must be top of the African agenda. The OAU must be given international support to continue its work and the peace initiatives must come from the African countries themselves. Where peace is achieved, help must be given for demobilisation and reintegration, and the use of child soldiers below the age of 18 must be banned. Ethnic cleansing has been the horror of the last 25 years, and religious wars destroy the very fabric of a country. Peace can bring prosperity. The main thrust of our aim therefore must be better education leading to better health care. Through AIDS and malaria, Africa is losing the very generation it needs to build its future. This summit was a start but much has to be done to turn words into reality, and we, Members of this House, must be part of that new world. .Mr President, Mr Khanbhai sends his sincere apologies for not being here to present his report. Unforeseen circumstances have forced him to return to the UK this evening. I would like to stress that this is his report, and I thank him for his work and his willingness to cooperate with other parties. It is perhaps appropriate that Mr Khanbhai drew up this report, because he was born in Tanzania, where his family have lived for 170 years. He and I have travelled extensively in rural Africa and we share many views on the eradication of poverty in developing countries. It is therefore a pleasure to stand in for him today. It is unacceptable that even today, more than one billion people are living on less than a dollar a day in rural areas of developing countries. They have no access to water, sanitation, electricity, health services or education. The poor are hungry, have no jobs, and fear disease. More than 40 years of international aid have not eliminated poverty. Many of these poor countries have huge debts, and their people are worse off than they were 25 years ago when Lomé assistance started. The EU is the largest donor in the world. Why have we not identified the country-specific problems, so that we can focus our aid on attacking the causes of poverty? I have been travelling in the ACP countries for over 20 years. The major cause of poverty is the lack of investment in rural areas. We need to invest in helping the rural population to have a stake in their local economies. These people need infrastructure, technical skills for farming and animal husbandry, and vocational training to establish small businesses in the agro-processing, engineering, IT and service sectors. They need the kind of support provided by micro-finance schemes such as the Gramine Bank in Bangladesh, and I strongly support Mr Khanbhai in this matter. A 'bottom-up' approach is the only way to regenerate rural areas. Asian countries like China, India and Bangladesh were food-deficient and net importers 20 years ago. Subsidies to farmers, selecting appropriate seed, irrigation, micro-finance for small farmers, establishing food cooperatives and other rural investments transformed the agricultures of these countries. Today, they grow enough food for their huge populations and have surplus for exports. There must be a lesson here. The EU and the US offer substantial subsidies to their farmers. Without such subsidies, there would be no economic prosperity in countries like Spain, Portugal, Ireland, Italy and France, which have all benefited from European subsidies. Without investment in Europe's rural infrastructure, the EU would not function as it does today. Sadly, international aid for rural areas in sub-Saharan countries has dropped from EUR 14 billion in 1988 to EUR 8 billion in 1998. This has resulted in a sharp decline in food production. It has been aggravated by natural disasters, both drought and floods. A decade of famine and malnutrition has precipitated disease, fear, social tension and civil war in many poor countries. The EU needs to encourage land reform, the efficient and fair utilisation of water resources and the transfer of technology for the rural populations of poor countries. We need to teach them to grow their own food, create their own employment and sustain their own economies. The poor do not wish to beg for life; they value their self-respect and dignity in the same way as we do. They do not want our fish. They need to learn how to fish and feed themselves. I agree with Mr Khanbhai that this is the spirit within which the EU should reassess its policy on aid. Agriculture, agrarian reform and rural economic development should be top priority areas for EU assistance. This will help production, employment and the sustainable management of natural resources in developing countries, enabling the poor to be self-reliant and break their dependence on our aid. I hope that the House will accept this report. Mr Khanbhai has agreed to over 75 per cent of the amendments that have been tabled. – Madam President, it is slightly difficult to speak on this resolution because as yet it has not been translated and brought up to the office. I have to work on the basis of the French version and I just hope I get it right. It is tragic that once again we find ourselves standing in this Chamber talking about yet another war in sub-Saharan Africa. It is absolutely right that we voice our displeasure at such an action having taken place. It is true to say that the election was disappointing and that we had hoped for better results. It reflected on the problems of Ivoirian birthright – as to whether you should be allowed to stand as a president if you were born in the country or if your parents were Ivoirian. We should always remember, however, that everything concerning our relations with these developing countries is based on the Cotonou Accord. That, of course, gives us a basis for democracy, human rights and good governance. Quite honestly, good governance to me is almost more important than pure democracy because if you can get a stable country that is transparent in its doings then that is a big step. Côte d'Ivoire is a huge country with enormous potential and is one of the lynchpins in West Africa. This was very much an internal power struggle. There are those who blame outside influences or rebel groups from other nations, but this was a pure power struggle within the nation itself. It was an issue of people wanting to take power simply as a domestic issue. The problem is much the same as that experienced by Nigeria in that there is a very strong Muslim presence in the north of the country, and a Christian one in the south. There is always a vying between these two groups. As it happens, the Muslims in the north tend to be the poorer of the two groups. The Commission should focus aid onto this area to benefit the Muslims who have not got the wealth of the south. I was in Ghana two weekends ago when the ECOWAS meeting of the 14 West African states took place. They discussed the situation in the Côte d'Ivoire. There was real doom and gloom amongst the representatives and leaders of those countries. When things go wrong in a country of that size, it not only destabilises Côte d'Ivoire, it very much destabilises that whole region. Therefore I was delighted that at least the ECOWAS leaders had the foresight and sense to intervene in the situation in Côte d'Ivoire and send a delegation there in the hope that it could mediate between the two parties. I sincerely hope that they are successful because there are problems arising in Nigeria where exactly the same situation exists. That country has a strong fundamentalist Muslim north and a Christian group in the south. With the way the Commission is now moving towards regional policies, it is absolutely vital that we get these countries to understand that if they are going to be able to face global prospects as far as trade is concerned, they must pull together as a region. Therefore it is vitally important that they support each other. The one disappointment was that NEPAD, the new African partnership on development, has not reacted more strongly in this situation. Written into that new agreement was a peer review. I had hoped that when a problem like this arose, the Heads of States in African countries in that organisation, which has been set up by Africans to look after Africa, would have immediately stepped in. But unfortunately, as with the Zimbabwean situation, they have not done so. If this organisation has not fallen at the first fence then it has certainly stumbled. I sincerely hope preparatory talks can take place as soon as possible because only around a table can we bring this conflict to an end without the death and destruction that usually happens. All I can do is ask the Commission to press both parties to stop warring and come together for discussions. – Madam President, I wish to begin by thanking the Commission for responding to this resolution on Nigeria and also Mr van den Berg both for his reports and for the enormous amount of work he did as chief observer while he was in Nigeria. His report is factual, fair and frank, and I find it disappointing that the Council report – perhaps for obvious reasons – was not as strong in its comments. In future I hope that the institutions will try and speak with one voice. As the Commissioner has just said, we have to be outspoken and condemn wrongdoings or there is no point in observing. The Nigerian elections were a classic example of how important election observation by the EU institutions is and how important it is to have observers out in the polling stations. The sight of observers not only ensures that misdemeanours are spotted, it also encourages voters that the outside world is taking an interest in making sure that rules are observed and democracy and freedom of choice are being given a chance. I have always believed that it is difficult to transpose a European-style election procedure onto some developing countries, as they do not have the capacity to properly prepare the paperwork. It is in this area that we in Europe could help by increasing our support to strengthen procedures. It is extremely disappointing that some regions showed such a blatant disregard for honesty and transparency, and these are well documented by the chief observer. Action  be taken by the appropriate bodies to rectify such anomalies, and we here should continue to monitor what happens. President Obasanjo has the potential to be one of the great leaders in the new Africa and should not be tarnished by the behaviour of some of his supporters. Nigeria is one of the largest and, potentially, richest countries in sub-Saharan Africa. With good governance, it can set an example not only for the region but also for the whole continent. However, to do that it must set aside the ethnic differences of the north and south, outlaw the extremes of Sharia law and work together towards economic prosperity. In the African Union and NEPAD Nigeria can take a leading role in building a regenerated Africa under the Cotonou Accord, so it is disappointing it did not set a better example at these elections. There were blatant and obvious misdemeanours, both before and during the elections, but we must look ahead to the future, correcting the mistakes of the past – by legislation where necessary – and we must encourage it to do so. The chief observer's report should point it in the right direction. I sincerely hope Nigeria will take note and take action. . – Mr President, I thank the Council and the Commission for their statements this morning, but I will concentrate on coherence policy because that is what the agenda says we are talking about. Much as I agree with the requirement to hold a debate on the coherence of different Union policies and development policy, I question whether today is the time to be holding it. However, the Council statement gave me hope for the future. It is quite obvious to me, as someone who specialises in development policy, that there are many areas where lack of coherence is dramatically affecting developing nations. I will give some examples shortly. However, I remind this House that, back in June 1997, a Council resolution acknowledged the fact that there is a serious lack of coherence in some of the EU policies in relation to its development cooperation policy. This was followed by a request from the Council to the Commission to provide an annual report, the first of which was to be discussed in 1998. We still await the first report, and that is why I believe this debate was premature, as the Commission had little to say on coherence this morning. The areas identified by the Council are specific areas where policy coherence is particularly important, such as peace-building, conflict prevention and resolution, food security, fisheries and immigration. Some of these issues have been discussed in depth. I personally feel that issues such as peace-building and conflict prevention and resolution are very much the domain of African Heads of State, with capacity support from the European Union and the OAU acting as arbiter. The issues that are really affected by lack of coherence are in areas such agriculture, trade, environment and biodiversity, but herein lies the real problem: these are the highly sensitive areas of policy within the European Union as a whole and in this Parliament in particular. Members of this House will have differing views, even within the same political parties, depending on (a) which country they come from or (b) which committee they sit on. There are areas of coherence I would like to see as a member of the Committee on Development that would probably horrify some of the members of the Committee on Agriculture or Committee on Fisheries. As a lack of coherence, one can cite as Mrs Sandbæk did, the exporting of milk products to Jamaica at prices far below production costs there which has almost ruined the Jamaican dairy industry. We have beef exported to southern Africa, to Namibia and South Africa, which then sell their indigenous beef to Swaziland, so that Swaziland can fill its export quota back to the European Union. Remember too, some countries blocked an agreement with South African trade for four years. If we simply import raw materials from these developing countries, rather than allowing them the add-on value of producing their finished articles in their own country, we deny them the very poverty-eradication that we have set as our top principle in helping developing nations. I am not surprised the Commission is having trouble producing a basic document for discussion on sustainable and social development. There is a natural resistance in the developing world to anything that would lower standards of living and create further unemployment. I wish the Commission well in its task of producing that basic document. – Mr President, on a point of order, perhaps the House would like to know that at the Joint Parliamentary Assembly held in Cape Town, which was ably co-chaired by Mrs Kinnock, we passed a very strong resolution. That is the good news. The bad news is that under the new draconian laws which have been brought in by President Mugabe, the editor of the daily newspaper which printed the resolution, in full and accurately, has been threatened and charged with a USD 2 000 fine – or two years in prison if he does not pay it. He has declared that he would rather go to prison than not tell the truth. Since this House is founded on freedom of speech, could the presidency write to Mr Mugabe and say that we would not expect any harm to come to this man and that we support freedom of speech. – Mr President, once again it was quite impossible to hear the Commissioner's winding-up speech. It is totally unfair to our Commissioners who come here to address us after they have listened to our speeches. I wonder whether, at the start of this two-and-a-half years of your presidency, you might consider a five-minute break between the end of business and Members coming into this Chamber, because we cannot continue in this way, showing this discourtesy to our Commissioners. – Mr President, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for the enormous amount of work he has put into this document and for the information that is in it. However, I am disappointed that he is so pessimistic, both looking back to the past and forward to the future. Of course I support some of his criticisms: too much paperwork, a lack of decision-making, slow delivery times and a lack of capacity in developing countries. This has given rise to frustration, but Commissioner Nielson is tackling these problems with some vigour. I am much more optimistic than the rapporteur. I believe the Cotonou Accord is the right path. Lomé had its faults. But it was a unique concept and much good work was done. The new Partnership Agreement is based on the right principles, enhancing the old Lomé Convention. The theme of poverty alleviation must be right. The only question is how best to implement it. There is much discussion on project finance versus budget support. Should we be using multilateral aid or bilateral aid? I strongly support multilateral aid backed up by bilateral aid where it can complement a project. I do not believe that project aid has failed. The problem has been the under-capacity of countries to continue projects once they were completed by the European Union. I am equally not yet convinced that budget support can be controlled tightly enough in many developing countries and fear that it will open the door to corruption. I believe it is the new factors in the Cotonou Accord that will have the most influence: the political dimension, the emphasis on good governance, conflict prevention and resolution, the interaction with civil society, the regional approach to strengthen trade and the Parliamentary element of the Joint Assembly. All these are elements that should strengthen the partnership. All this has changed my role as co-president in the last year. I certainly have played a more political role in the past year, discussing, for instance, conflict resolution and good governance with President Taylor in Liberia, or having discussions on the Zimbabwe situation with the Presidents of Botswana, Malawi and Mozambique, and hearing and seeing the effects on their countries. All this depends on an effective Commission, with properly funded and staffed delegations. Most of the ones I have seen are extremely badly serviced at the moment for lack of funds and the petty paperwork they have to handle. This is Parliament's fault. We must urge all countries to ratify the agreement, as Mrs Dybkjær has said, to allow the ninth EDF to come into force. This partnership has to work. If we really wish to see an end to economic migration and terrorism in the world, we must provide a standard of living in developing countries which persuades people to stay and work there. Mr President, I am sorry to have to make yet another complaint about Air France. On this occasion it concerns embarkation. We used to leave through terminal 2D, where there are plenty of security machines and things ran smoothly, but for the last two months we have been leaving from terminal 2B, where there is one small security machine. Today it took an average of 40 to 45 minutes to get through. I am really speaking on behalf of some very stressed-out passengers from the Interpretation Service and for staff who were in tears at the thought they might not get on the plane. Members who went to the lounge and were called at the appropriate moment in fact found they had to queue for 40 minutes. The plane was then very late in leaving. Could you perhaps ask that these facilities be improved? Mr President, I rise on the same point which has just been made. I sincerely hope that you would write to the Sudanese Government and suggest that these barbaric punishments be stopped immediately: not just for this crime, but for all crimes. They cannot continue to use Sharia law and these dreadful, horrendous punishments. – Mr President, on a point of order. The House will be aware that last week in Nigeria a young woman was condemned to death for adultery. She was to be stoned to death, having been buried in the ground. After a letter from Mrs Fontaine, a number of Members of this House and from myself, as ACP Co-President, that death sentence was not carried out, and an appeal can be made within two months. However, I am appalled to tell you that a further case has now arisen; an 18-year-old is to be taken to court on Monday for the same offence of adultery and will be condemned to death, again by stoning. I sincerely hope that this House, and every Member in it, will support you in writing to Nigeria in the hope that such sentences will be stopped in the future, so that this barbaric method of killing someone under Sharia law is taken up with the Nigerian Government and the latter urged to ensure that it never happens again. – Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Gemelli on having had his report adopted unanimously by the Committee on Development and Cooperation. It deserves the same accolade from the House. It is fair to say there was considerable input from all the political parties in this House, as Mr Gemelli accepted a number of amendments during the committee stage. It lays down the foundation for development policy for the coming decade. Some of the statistics it throws up are frightening in their nature, for instance the number of people under the age of 15 in developing countries; the utter poverty in which most of them live; the scourge of diseases such as AIDS, malaria and TB; the huge and widening gap between developed and developing nations; the predictions, which I believe will never be reached in the timescales laid down. Lastly, there is the enormity of the task we face as a European Union to help eradicate these problems. It is encouraging that the Commission, of its own initiative, has realised we cannot continue as we have in the past and that new structures and formats have to be found to close the gap between commitments and payments and that better use must be made of developing funds. Trade is the key. I applaud much of its thinking. We in Parliament must support its efforts. Decentralisation is a must to make better use of our delegation offices and cut red tape and wasted time. As the rapporteur for regional cooperation and integration last year, I am pleased to see progress being pursued in this direction with ECOWAS in West Africa leading the way. Only by strengthening internal regional trade will many nations be able to face globalisation and WTO rules. ‘Everything but Arms’ is a major step forward. But to make best use of development aid there must be closer cooperation between nation states, financial institutions and the Commission. The Commission should be acting as overall coordinator to cut out duplication and not be involved in the day-to-day development issues which should be contracted out to organisations that specialise in these matters. While budget support to national governments may spend more money quicker, it is much more difficult to police and monitoring will have to be of a high calibre. Small-scale help for entrepreneurs must not be abandoned. It is here that the members of the Committee on Development should be more active in keeping the Commission alert to its responsibilities. The Commission has laid down its six priority principles, all of which we can strongly support. The priority within the six is also important. We should never forget that without peace, stability, good governance and the rule of law none of the other five priorities can be acted upon. , – Mr President, I had hoped to be rising at 9 a.m., not 9 p.m., to present this report. I hope the number of Members in this Chamber is not an indication of the interest in overseas development work. However, it is normal practice that the report on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly is put before Members of this Parliament and I have the pleasant task of doing that tonight. Once again, I can report two highly successful Assemblies having taken place, one in Strasbourg and one in Nassau. In many ways this was the end of an old era and the start of a new one. The ACP-EU Joint Assembly is a unique organisation in world politics. Where else do 86 nations come together to discuss matters of mutual concern? The Strasbourg Assembly was the last chaired by Lord Plumb. In honour of the tremendous work he carried out over a difficult period the Joint Bureau in Nassau made him an honorary president, and we wish him well in his retirement. The two Assemblies have been dominated by the negotiations on renewal of the Lomé Convention and I look forward to the signature of a new Convention and its rapid ratification by all the countries concerned. I remember that at the last mid-term review, when I was rapporteur, the then Commissioner Marin said that review would be the last. Well, he was wrong, and I pay tribute to Philip Lowe and his team who have worked so successfully behind the scenes to conclude a new Convention in very difficult circumstances. I was also delighted to hear the report this morning from Commissioner Nielson who has worked untiringly to get the right outcome to the negotiations. I pay special tribute to him for his success. I also pay tribute to Mrs Kinnock and her working group for the huge amount of work they put in on the future of Lomé. I am quite sure that Mrs Kinnock’s report and the one on regional cooperation and integration had a major bearing on the outcome of these negotiations. I also thank the Working Groups on the small island states and climate change and the Follow-up Group on Fisheries for their excellent reports. We have had question times to the Council and the Commission and to the ACP Council, and I would like to thank those institutions for their interest in our work. The main thrust of our work in both Assemblies was poverty eradication. The resolution passed went so far as to say that poverty amounted to a violation of human rights. It also emphasised the importance of abolishing gender inequalities and as I travel through Africa and see the work done by women I only wish there were more women in senior government positions and in presidential posts. We might then see an end to some of the fraud, corruption and mismanagement that seem endemic in some countries and that have to be stopped. We had, as usual, many debates on countries where there are war situations. I visited Ethiopia and Eritrea to gain first-hand knowledge. The OAU is doing its best to broker a peace deal there. But Ethiopia is still calling for clarification on certain issues and the humanitarian situation in both countries is serious. We were delighted to hear in Nassau that a trade agreement was being reached with South Africa after four years of negotiations. This highlights the problems of coherence between the EU and the developing nations, which came to a head at the WTO talks in Seattle. Much work has to be done to convince the developing nations of the advantages of globalisation and world free-trade agreements. In Nassau, we had two interesting debates on East Timor and Cuba. Cuba has observer status but I understand has now shown a wish to join the ACP. All nations from within the confines of the ACP territory who can live up to the requirements of democracy, human rights, governance and an independent judiciary are, I am sure, welcome. I await with interest developments in Cuba. When Mr Dalmau, the Cuban Junior Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed the Assembly, he did not hesitate to let his feelings be known. On East Timor, Mr Da Costa, from the Timorese National Resistance Council, gave a very moving address indicating that East Timor would also like to join the ACP when it becomes a state with a government. We must give them all our support to reach that goal. Human rights is such an important issue within the ACP-EU Assembly that Joint Vice-Presidents have been appointed with special responsibilities for monitoring human rights closely and reporting to the Assembly. A number of cases have been highlighted, including the child soldier issue in Sudan, where many children have been abducted from neighbouring states. I had the honour of being elected the European Co-President at the beginning of this fifth term and Mr Clair from Mauritius is the new ACP Co-President. I would like to see a number of changes to our Assembly, particularly after the signing of the new Convention in May. We must have more equality between our ACP partners and our European members and I want to get rid of the “them and us” syndrome. Firstly, I would like to see a Joint Parliamentary Assembly of elected members from ACP countries and not ambassadors or government ministers sitting there as delegates. This I think is the new Convention. Secondly, the new Convention allows for regional assemblies in the six regions, which would allow us to be much more specific in our work. These assemblies would report back to the Joint Assembly. We had a regional debate in Nassau in the Caribbean and this was extremely productive. We are going to have one in Abuja in West Africa too. I want the Assembly to stop being just a talk-shop and become a work-shop for the betterment of all the people in developing countries. I want to see civil society given a louder voice. But to do that we have to see an end to corruption and we have to face this head-on. We must reward those nations which are making the effort to live by the rules of good governance. Equally, we should come down hard on those who are corrupt or whose constitutions do not allow the pluralist governments that we demand. I am delighted to see the result in Zimbabwe. European taxpayers will no longer accept their taxes being fraudulently used. A new wind of change must blow through Africa and new standards must be set and lived up to. The Joint Assembly should play a leading role in monitoring the enactment of good governance, human rights and democracy in cooperation with the Commission. I believe that as equal partners the EU– and ACP-elected delegates are up to that task. I beg to move acceptance of this report. () Madam President, I declare an interest as a farmer receiving agricultural subsidies. But today I specifically want to speak in defence of the weaker developing countries, particularly those in the ACP. To me, Cancún should have been the culmination of months of serious work in committee, thrashing out answers to the doubts and fears of the developing world. To expect to sit down with 148 countries and reach any conclusion is beyond any possibility, but I believe that Cancún was a watershed. The days of powerful blocs such as the European Union and the USA sitting in smoke-filled rooms, carving up the spoils and throwing a few crumbs to the rest of the world, have long since gone. Developing countries have realised that there is strength in numbers and power in using that strength. But this is not just a matter of the developing and the developed world. There are different strata in both groupings. Economically, Asia, the Far East and Latin America are light-years away from the ACP countries. Countries' trade potential will develop at different speeds. Successes for the future depend on flexibility of timing. Opt-outs were offered as essential ingredients at Cancún and must be part of any future plan. Capacity to enact what has been agreed is a key factor. The ACP is, at this moment, negotiating a Cotonou partnership agreement on trade to be agreed by 2008. Economic partnership agreements and regional economic partnership agreements are the eventual aim of those negotiations. Most of those countries are not ready for reciprocal trade agreements or rules on competition; but regional integration would give them strength in a global world and increase south/south trade. The ACP countries could not cope with Cotonou and Cancún at the same time. For them Cancún was a step too far, too soon. Now we must have a complete reassessment of procedures. – Mr President, I should like to ask you to consider writing a letter to the President of Nigeria offering the condolences of the Members of this House on the horrendous explosions that took place in Lagos. Over 1 000 people were killed and there are now over 4 000 orphans there. I am sure everyone in this House would wish them to know our feelings. Mr President, Mrs Sandbæk, the rapporteur, has agreed to change 'working' to 'being exploited', meaning that the wording would now be: 'this must extend to women being exploited'. – Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur not only for the work he has put in to produce this report but also for the rather unique way he has had to handle the situation that the Development Committee and Parliament found itself in. It is perhaps a sad indictment on the European institutions that, five months after the expiry date of the legal base to this Council regulation, it has only now come before Parliament, thanks, as the rapporteur and almost every other speaker has said, to an 8-month delay by the Council in responding to Parliament's first reading. Surely we cannot continue to work in this way. It is interesting to note that half this report is taken up by the procedural points the rapporteur has had to work his way through. Now it has returned to us it is particularly pleasing that the Council has adopted the thrust of most of our amendments. Most welcome is the fact that the Council has made poverty alleviation a top priority. This should strengthen the partnership between South Africa and Europe. I have just spent a week in South Africa and there is much appreciation for all that the EU is doing to stabilise their fragile democracy. Only by rapidly improving living standards, particularly in health, education and employment, will stability remain. There was much resentment against some nation states at the hold-ups there had been over the new trade agreement with particular reference to spirit names. We are doing much for South Africa and I hope, in return, President Mbeki will work for peace in the region, with particular reference to Zimbabwe. The implication in the rapporteur's report that this regulation may have been delayed because it was being used as a bargaining chip is very worrying. The Commission might like to comment on this particular point. I would also like to hear from the Commission on how we can streamline the system. In the last session in Strasbourg we had another regulation that had also run out last December and this should not happen. I must strongly support the rapporteur and his suggestions that the Commission should be tackling the issues of major topics, such as the importance and the overall impact of the programme in relation to the agreed objectives rather than individual programmes. I would also like to see delegate offices strengthened with more and better staff to be able to cope more efficiently with monitoring and evaluations. This regulation is bound to have an impact on neighbouring states and I hope the Commission will take this into consideration. The rapporteur has broken new ground on commitology which can only bode well for the future. My group supports this regulation but asks for a speedy conclusion to the vacuum we are in. We would not like to see any disagreement on budget amounts hold up ratification. – I would like to thank the Commissioner for the statement he has just made. One thing is quite clear: unless we get better cooperation between the donors, we will never get rid of the duplication and voids we see in aid. Does he find already that we are getting better coordination with the United Nations because of what he is doing? I noticed in the ninth EDF that 90% of the funds will be going to the least developed countries. Do you think they have the capacity to deal with such a large amount of money? And if not, are the United Nations organisations helping to build that capacity? The EU policy is to move towards regional cooperation and integration. Is that also a policy that the United Nations organisations are following and will support? – Mr President, I oppose urgency on a matter of principle, not on a matter of substance. I am sure we all support a global health fund and President Prodi guaranteed EUR 120 million at the G8 meeting in July. However, I and many others are extremely disappointed that the Commission has taken until November to come forward with any effective suggestions and now it is asking for urgency, effectively denying the Council and Parliament any time to debate or amend this proposal. It looks as if we are just going to hand over a cheque and that will be the end of it. The Commission is also suggesting the funding should be found by taking EUR 60 million from a fishing agreement and EUR 60 million from the EDF. In its resolution in this House on 25 October this House emphasised that contributions should be new and additional funding, and this is not so. At the moment it looks as if it is a one-off payment. I would like to hear the Commission guarantee that a legal base will be found for the sustainable funding of the global health fund after 2000 and submitted as quickly as possible. I would like an assurance that it will be new money and that Parliament and the Council will be kept fully informed and involved, so that we play a legislative part in this process. We, as parliamentarians, cannot be treated in this way. –Mr President, I endorse the fact that this budget for Parliament and the other institutions is indeed a very important matter. With enlargement we have to be most careful that we use money to the best advantage, right across the board. I would like to go through one or two detailed matters before I tackle the issue of health insurance. The car service is often abused and we have to make sure that it is very carefully controlled indeed. Concerning languages, technology and the Internet, we need to expand the services to ensure that we are ever more efficient and put our money to the best use at all times. Regarding staffing, we have already helped, as far as the PPE-DE is concerned, to trim down some of the expectations. This relates to assistants to the vice-presidents, where there was going to be considerable extra cost amounting to several hundreds of thousands of euros. We are making sure that whilst there will be upgradings in line with the promotion aspects of the service commitments, we will not be allowing the fast-tracking that was destined to lead to this enormous extra cost in the coming year or two. We will also be making sure that there are no assistants helping out committee chairmen. We see no need for that. We will also be very carefully monitoring the number of assistants helping out Quaestors. I would like to make sure that Amendment No 7 is adopted. This repairs some damage that was done in the earlier versions of this report by Neena Gill. It concerns the Association of Former Members. They have produced all the necessary reports, but they have to have meetings in June, which does not tie in with our budget calendar. It is no place of ours to criticise them and therefore I hope that we can pass Amendment No 7, which welcomes the decision of the Bureau, concerning the costs of meetings of this association. It is doing an excellent job in keeping former Members informed. I turn now to the contentious matter raised and the reference to the Greens' amendment on health insurance. If we as Parliamentarians do not safeguard against illness of our Members, I do not believe we are doing our duty. We must ensure that the onerous duties placed on us of travelling extensively, lengthy debates and discussions and busy programmes in our regions and our countries throughout the European Union are reflected in a proper health insurance which is up and running and cost effective. I would like to read clause 3 in full, to show that this is not a final decision, but simply open-mindedness with a view to keeping this matter under review. I quote: '…is willing to consider entering appropriations for the extension of the current health insurance scheme to former Members and looks forward to detailed proposals being submitted in due course.' I would emphasise also that if the MEP Statute comes in, as mentioned earlier, this would probably be embraced within it. The final decision is one for the Bureau of this Parliament. All I am saying is that we, as the Committee on Budgets, should take the necessary steps to ensure that we have some allowance and that we will consider the figures in the next few months. Madam President, I should like to talk about two matters: first, in my capacity as shadow rapporteur for the PPE-DE Group on various transport matters; secondly, as shadow rapporteur on the other institutions. So firstly, I should like to address Mrs de Palacio and secondly, Commissioner Schreyer. The TENs programme is a wonderful one, which allows transport, energy and telematics projects throughout Europe to be decided upon by the nation states themselves in order to connect the 15 countries now in the Union with the 10 countries coming in, embracing the whole of the European Union and making sure that each nation can build its part within the trans-European network. I have nothing but full confidence in that programme. I would just point out that there is an item of some EUR 225 million for studies relating to it in the budget, whereas the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, of which I am a substitute Member, says that they do not want more studies but more action and implementation on the ground. With regard to the Marco Polo programme on transfer to other modes of transport, away from road traffic and the congestion which it causes, I give that my full support. We need to have more telematics and computer information technology used to advance the efficient movement of goods and passengers throughout the European Union. Touching upon the Galileo project, we need to maximise the use of the private sector. I welcome this project. I hope that we will not use it for automatic levying of tolls on lorries, but rather allow individual drivers of private commercial vehicles to avoid congestion by knowing their best route from where they are to where they want to go: in other words, to help the motorists rather than tax and hinder them. On the other institutions, we have had useful discussions in the last day or two. I was delighted to attend the conciliation meeting in July and pay tribute to Mr Magri and his superb chairmanship of that committee. There was one matter that was left. That was where our rapporteur, Mrs Gill, thought that the Commission and the Council were being generous - I would say extremely generous - in their attitude to the budgets proposed by three of the other institutions: the Court of Justice, the Committee of the Regions, and the Economic and Social Committee. Whereas Parliament's budget is only going up by 13%, the Council's by 21% and the Commission's by 8% or 9%, the Court of Justice, for example, is asking for 57%. I am delighted the Council has knocked that figure down to 46%. But in an amendment that we tabled from the United Kingdom delegation, we are asking for a further, similar reduction. The same applies to the Economic and Social Committee. It asked for 33%, knocked down by the Council to 27%. We want it down by the same percentage again. The Committee of the Regions asked for 63% and was knocked down to 54%. We want a further reduction to 46%. We can afford these increases, but that is not the point. We must get the best possible value for money from these other institutions and ask them to re-examine their budget spending. – Mr President, it gives me great pleasure to say that the budget for 2003 has gone wonderfully well. It was a privilege to be in on the mid-term and end-of-year conciliation meetings where there was constructive and sensible debate and deals were done. I would like to praise Commissioner Kinnock for his reforms at the Commission, although there has been one blind spot. I am delighted to see Mrs Schreyer here today, who hopefully is going to talk about accounting control. During the passage of this budget we in the Conservatives and the European People's Party tried to indicate that we needed better and tighter accounting control. If we did not get that, we would not release certain amounts of money and allow certain staffing levels. This is absolutely vital. It is a great pity that the Committee on Budgets takes one forward look at the budget, but then encounters budgetary control implications, and there is a bit of a gap between the two. There needs to be a seamless thread, and I am delighted that Mrs Schreyer is here to address that issue today. Looking ahead, it is vital that we have the common agricultural policy reform carried out to programme and not delayed, because this is so vital to enlargement and the sensible payment of reasonable subsidies – I say  and stress that word – to the accession countries. I praise the fact that we get good value from the European Union budget. We have brought down the percentage of gross domestic product spent on the budget successfully, so that it is now just over 1% at 1.02%. I praise everyone involved, particularly the rapporteurs, on a very successful budget outcome. . – Mr President, I am very much in favour of this programme. Mr Bradbourn has made very sensible suggestions and has a feel for the needs of the travelling public, in particular those in cars who are delayed by heavy freight vehicles. I applaud the entire Marco Polo Programme, which is badly needed to stop congestion. I am a civil engineer by background. I served on the Transport Committee in the House of Commons in London for eight years and know only too well by travelling up and down to my north-west region from London how very difficult it is to do something about this problem. I applaud the fact that new initiatives will be encouraged by this programme, ensuring that traffic is phased into junctions by using light-emitting diodes etc., things which are cheap but which are very effective and absolutely vital. We must ensure that this scheme is properly monitored. That is the idea behind the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. We emphasise that, half way through the period up to 2010, there should be a thorough audit and investigation of what has been achieved. I agree entirely with Mr Bradbourn that we should not just go for large schemes, because out there the logistics industry – and I applaud its efforts up and down the country and across all countries in the European Union – has a lot of ideas that it wants to start up. That is where much improvement can take place. I understand that the Council is anxious to reduce the amount of money being made available for this project. However, I hope that even if that does take place, we will show by the mid-term review that we are getting excellent value for money and that the budget should be raised in future years. I applaud everyone involved in this very forward-thinking scheme. Mr President, I would like to raise two amendments that were tabled by the PPE-DE Group but rejected in committee, which we have retabled for the plenary. The first has been mentioned several times already today, and that is contributions to European political parties. Here most of the items our group wanted were included in the final version of the paragraph, except that there is a reserve against the whole amount. We want to see that reserve lifted. We would point out that far from there allegedly being no code of conduct, there will certainly be measures to secure separation between types of expenditure – between information and political expenditure – and a code of conduct on the use of appropriations entered under this heading. We want to see that reserve lifted. It is evident that there will be no spending before June of next year, that is until after the elections take place. And we should trust in the good faith of people in the political parties in the European Parliament. The second item is the very small item of EUR 37 000, which relates to the creation of an A7 post in the Commission office in Washington. Again this afternoon we have heard several speakers who really are not particularly in favour of good relations between the European Parliament and the US Administration. This small investment will pay off extremely handsomely in terms of two-way cooperation and understanding, and I would urge that the majority of only one vote in committee should be overturned by a successful vote in plenary. The third point is not contentious. I urge the PPE-DE Group, as shadow rapporteur on the Gill report, to support the amendment tabled by Mr Walter, on behalf of the Socialist Group. This relates to the need for the verbatim proceedings to be looked at carefully again. First of all, I applaud the very speedy and accurate work done by Parliament's staff in producing verbatim versions of speeches in this Chamber. These are translated into the main languages within a few days, but it is unrealistic to expect that full verbatim translations should be produced in all the languages of the enlarged European Union. We need to achieve better value for money and to tailor the scarce interpretation and translation skills to best advantage. Individual requests, as called for in the amendment for particular needs, must surely be the way forward. The European Union needs to use the latest technology available to meet these needs. I appreciate that there will have to be an authorisation and monitoring system, but this will show the real needs of people and deliver the flexibility we should aim for. In this way we will be responding to the wishes of European citizens, instead of producing mountains of paperwork that destroy forests and also stand the chance of not being read. My final two points are again on the language items, firstly regarding full controlled multilingualism. In Amendment No 4 we are calling for the adoption of specific measures by the Bureau and 'the evaluation of the report by the Committee on Budgets on the basis of a working document drafted by its rapporteur'. This is a very important matter. It would involve the Language Centre in Luxembourg and a greater focus on teleworking. My final point concerns taking account of the extended multilingualism of the new Parliament. We need to make sure that we have proper, concrete measures introduced to help the accession countries find their way around more easily than we were able to a few years ago. . Conservative MEPs fully support the fight against terrorism and all the means which can be deployed to meet this end. We are aware of the fact that considerable negotiations have been underway between the European Commission and the US authorities regarding passenger information. We are satisfied that the agreement which has been reached provides the right balance between privacy and the means of protecting our lives and liberties. Whilst we understand that passengers may find this inconvenient from time to time, recent events have shown that we must all remain alert and vigilant. We are all in this fight together. – Mr President, as the shadow rapporteur, I wish to raise four points on the Gill report. Firstly, on political party funding – the matter just raised by Mr van Dam – my Group considers that this funding should be in Parliament's,  the Commission's budget. The reason is that we can be accountable: the rules are already set down and agreed between the three institutions. I understood that there was also a move by the Council of Ministers and the Commission to move this budget towards Parliament's financing. It is right and appropriate to show that we are responsible and accountable. An amendment has been tabled and I urge Members to vote – perhaps against their own groups – for Parliament to have control of the political party funding budget. Secondly, on buildings, the Bureau has made too many decisions without referring back to the appropriate committee – the Committee on Budgets. I welcome Paragraph 40 of the Mrs Gill's report, which I broadly support. That calls on the Secretary-General to submit a report by 1 June 2004 outlining 'the functional justifications for the new building projects'. I hope that report will include the proposals for two new conference rooms here. The United Kingdom Conservatives and Socialists are opposed to those two conference rooms, as they would spoil the very pleasant entrance to the European Parliament by the flags. There is no functional justification. The conference rooms – in particular the large ones – are under-utilised. There is more than enough room, even with the enlargement countries, to provide all the necessary facilities. That is a very important matter and, in future, we at least will be requiring functional justification before spending is approved. I should like to draw attention to a very positive amendment – of which I am sure Mrs Gill will approve – to Paragraph 28. This clarifies the movement towards more facilities to cover multilingualism, which is particularly important for enlargement. It concerns electronic guidance, computer workstations and directions to rooms. I know that as a new Member three years ago I had great difficulty in Brussels and Strasbourg even in finding rooms. Think of the language difficulties for Members from the new countries. Therefore, monitors and permanently-installed signs scrolling through the various languages would be a very important addition. Finally, there is a reference in the report to the Court of Auditors. It does very important work and needs extra resources, a suggestion I fully endorse. – Mr President, I just want to raise two points this evening at the same time as praising the rapporteur for the very sensible and courteous manner in which he has run the budget in advance of next year. My first point is addressed to the Commissioner and concerns B-1 items where the Commission pays an enormous amount of money for subsidies for growing rice, bananas and the distillation of wine. These are items I would have thought we were by now starting to reduce the payments for. I would ask her to look at them. I tabled many amendments amounting to hundreds of millions of euros. I hope that rather than compulsory expenditure like that, being left to grow year by year, it should be looked at very closely. Perhaps I could ask her to do that in advance of future budgets. The other matter is a perennial matter which comes up each year: the European women's lobby and finance for women's organisations generally. We tabled an amendment, and so did Mrs Avilés Perea of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, to say that the money that is voted for lobby organisations for women following the Beijing conference should not all go, as it has for many years, to the European Women's lobby. I know many of my colleagues in the Chamber receive all sorts of letters and e-mails from around Europe saying it all must go to this one organisation. This is wrong, we need to encourage new organisations in this very important field. It is right and proper that the amendment that was put forward by the United Kingdom delegation was in fact passed. This made it clear, in the remarks column, that one organisation, any single organisation within that spending line should not get more than 65%. I trust that the approved amendment will be held to when the budget comes out. I thank the Commissioner for her consideration. – Mr President, I too want to speak about Mrs Haug’s report on own resources. Her advice that we should go for a European tax is premature and unnecessary. She says that the Belgian presidency is expected to put this forward or start a debate. I have read the notes on the work programme by the Belgian presidency and there is little or no reference to it. There is only one reference to the tax on flows of speculative capital – the so-called Tobin tax. That was voted down by Parliament only a few months ago. At the end of the document there is also reference to direct or indirect funding of the European Union, so that we can once again operate with the European Union’s own resources. I put to her that the Prime Minister of Belgium only, in the last few days, said that he does not want to pursue this path towards a European Union tax because "it is sensitive". It is very much a sensitive matter and totally unnecessary. Mrs Haug mentions that the amount of money coming in from the nation-states through gross national product is going to rise. I accept that. I sat in the House of Commons in the United Kingdom for 18 years before coming into this Chamber. I always thought it was marvellous that the percentage of gross national product coming into European spending was declining. That downward path has continued during the last two years. I applaud that. It shows good and effective control of spending and nation-states do not mind passing on that money to the European Union. I see no reason whatsoever for the European Union to raise its own direct tax. That is why I have tabled four amendments tomorrow for voting. Two of those will be on a roll-call vote. You can see this evening that there is opposition from various countries. I hope that people will vote in support of my amendments and oppose the European tax. – Mr President, can I say that everyone in the Chamber this evening knows that the reason why this money is being held back in the system. It is because there is a great need for structural funding to be spent in our various countries and regions. We are now some two and a half years through the seven-year programme 2000-2006. We are thus over 30% of the way through, and we have grossly underspent. What we are doing now is giving the Member States the chance to get their act together and to spend this money, to help improve the environment, working conditions and employment prospects throughout our European Union. This is for the betterment of the economy as a whole and of conditions in our areas. We are taking a responsible attitude and I am delighted that we have unanimity round the Chamber this evening. I hope this will be reflected in the voting tomorrow. It is very important indeed for us to make sure that the countries spend this money, to allow the private sector to get its act together because, at the end of 2006, with enlargement, we, the existing fifteen countries, will lose the ability to have structural funding. The other five or ten countries coming into the European Union will demand structural funding for their countries. We will have a very rapid cut-off. It may well be that we do not even allow any overlapping into the year 2007-2008 on the spend if it gets further behind. I therefore urge every single government throughout the European Union to use this money, use it effectively and use it quickly. I thoroughly endorse the Chairman's guidance to us, as team captains so to speak, to make sure that we vote conclusively together tomorrow to withhold the necessary money and urge those countries to spend it properly. – Mr President, can I first congratulate the two rapporteurs, Mr Costa Neves and Mrs Buitenweg on their excellent presentation of the expectations for next year. I am sure that Parliament is properly under control for that period. This morning I want to concentrate on just one issue: structural funding. Why it has not yet been fully used and what should its future be? I want to be both controversial and constructive. Either through poor administration or delayed planning of what should happen and what should be approved by the European authorities, and perhaps in conjunction with the national authorities, we are behind on spending on structural funding both for inner-cities and rural areas. Now, I want to be controversial and I am spelling out that word, because I do not agree that all we should do is push back the spending and get an enormous lump in four or five years time. We should be looking ahead. When enlargement takes place, the countries coming into the European Union will be expecting structural funding; the very funding which our existing countries will be deprived of because they will not be able to benefit if we have to satisfy one budget on structural funding. In other words, the new countries will expect and should obtain funding for their requirements. My way around this is to say that the funds that have not been used so far should be lost to the system. As we have heard, this is the intention. But why not take advantage of that straight away? Why not send back the funding that has not been used to the countries who pay the contributions? They are mainly the ones hit by foot-and-mouth. They need to use that money to compensate for the crisis in rural areas. – Mr President, I want to raise one matter relating to the enforcement of seafarer’s hours, of their working time onboard ships using Community ports. I do not really see how this measure can be monitored satisfactorily because the Community ports and the countries within the European Community have no real jurisdiction over those ships that are flagged or owned in overseas countries. If we take it forward: Say, for instance, they had agreed that some monitoring was possible – surely they would not have certain working hours outside European Community waters and ports and then change once they were inside our geographical area. I have been talking about this with American lawyers over recent weeks – personal friends, I have no interest to declare here. They just feel that it is wrong that ports should dictate to owners of ships. We want the maximum trade here in the European Union. We want to make sure that cruise ships come here, spend money here and give employment to our various countries. I do not see how it is possible to monitor a practice that would seem to be more a matter of international law. Ship owners and the nations that have these ships flagged in those countries should be monitored elsewhere rather than by European countries. . – Mr President, I wish to begin by apologising for Mr Bradbourn's absence from this debate. Due to health reasons he cannot join us and, therefore, I am reading, on his behalf, the speech he prepared earlier. I know he is extremely proud of being the rapporteur for the Marco Polo Programme and is looking forward to its passing through Parliament later this week. As he reiterated in committee earlier this month, he felt that the three institutions were not far from agreement, and a close inspection of the common position proves this. Indeed, from Parliament's perspective, the two outstanding points that he felt needed to be discussed were resolved in the informal trialogue. Due to the success of the informal trialogue he felt that there was no need for a new, lengthy debate on the programme, which passed unopposed through the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism at its last meeting. As Mr Bradbourn has reiterated on many occasions during the formulation of this programme, it must strike a balance, and he firmly believes this common position would do just that. To bury business in yet more red tape would, in his eyes, be completely the wrong approach, notwithstanding the need for efficient scrutiny of how the money is spent and how effective the programme is proving to be. The common position will mean that the programme remains market-driven, thus providing an excellent opportunity to show that the European Union is prepared to help not hinder business, as is often the case. As I am sure you are all aware, the threshold issue is something Mr Bradbourn has been fighting for vehemently, not just on behalf of the numerous small and medium-sized businesses in his own region of the West Midlands of England, but for SMEs in general, which, if it were not for these low thresholds would miss out entirely on funding which is there to help them achieve the goals of the programme. As rapporteur, his view was that by lowering the thresholds companies could work together in putting forward innovative projects that would benefit transport and, indeed, industry as a whole. By keeping the original thresholds, small businesses would have once again been ignored by Europe which, it would seem, is merely interested in showcase schemes which, while looking good, do not benefit the people who paid for them – us or the taxpayers. The immediate aims of the Marco Polo Programme are improving the environmental performance of the freight transport system and also reducing road congestion in albeit a relatively small way. Your rapporteur justifiably believes that this lowering of thresholds is extremely important in obtaining these goals. His last point merely reinforces one of the main aims of this whole proposal: to reduce bottlenecks. He agreed originally with the Commission that congestion threatens both the environment and the operational working of the whole freight transport sector. He still feels it imperative that we concentrate on practical ways to defuse these bottlenecks, especially at ports. Regarding the implementation of this programme, the last thing Mr Bradbourn wants is to unnecessarily hold up the legislative process. As you will all agree, this programme is not only another piece of legislation; it is a significant signal to Europe's freight businesses that we can, and indeed we want, to help rather than hinder them. The sooner the Marco Polo Programme becomes active, the better for Europe's transport sector. Thus, given the outcome of this common position and its unopposed endorsement from members of the Committee on Transport, the rapporteur, Mr Bradbourn, believes we can progress towards the second reading of the Marco Polo Programme without the need for wholesale change. As a final remark, he would, however, reiterate the necessity of our open approach: the carrot rather than the stick, designed to encourage both the participation of, and leadership by, the business community. I apologise again for Mr Bradbourn's unavoidable absence. Mr President, going back into the early part of the preparation of these budgets, first, in several instances the other institutions wanted enormous increases in their budgets. I accept that we are expanding from 15 countries to 25, that we are expanding from 11 languages to 20, but I was delighted that the Council of Ministers chopped the huge increases being asked for by the Court of Justice, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. With regard to Parliament's budget, at the start we faced the fact that there could have been a statute for Members of the European Parliament. We all agreed, across all parties, that this would have meant an increase of probably tens of millions of euros in the budget for Parliament. It is not my job to say here and now whether it is a good or a bad thing to have a statute, but I must point out that it many mean a further increase if one is ever implemented. We have funding for political parties starting in the middle of next year, after the European elections in June. Again, we have reserved enough money within the budget  and it is quite right and proper that we do so. We will have proper working arrangements that are above board, with proper checks and balances, but it is an item on which we have to finalise some of the details. Looking ahead in relation to languages, I should like to think that overall there would be a use of fewer languages. I know that it is right and proper, with enlargement, to give all the new countries the possibility of using their native languages, but we ought to rationalise the use of languages in future years. I hope that minds will be concentrated in that regard. There is one unfinished item of business: whether Parliament should have a health insurance scheme for former Members. I am delighted that a few weeks ago a report was commissioned. I understand that the results will be published next month. This will enable us to look at whether this is a good and sensible thing for former Members who fall ill. They would have to have served two full terms  10 years. I consider this to be something that Parliament needs to look at in order to redress the imbalance between ourselves, who as Members of the European Parliament do an awful lot of travelling and are put at health risks because of that, and other people in the various institutions. We have heard mention today of the overall cost of the European Union to the taxpayers in Europe. I am convinced that the  has got it absolutely right, as Mr Elles pointed out. Admittedly we can spend upwards of 1.24% of the gross domestic product of all the countries on the European Union budget. I am so delighted that we have managed to drive that percentage down over the four years that I have been in this Parliament, so that even with enlargement, we are just below 1% of the gross domestic product. That is a huge compliment to everyone involved: the Commissioner herself, the staff of the Commission, the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, the Council of Ministers. Everyone deserves credit. Therefore I would like to see us carry on giving better value for money to the European Union taxpayers over the years. They want to see the real cost of Europe reduced. That way they will see that we are responsive to their wishes. – Mr President, I want to speak briefly about an amendment I have tabled to the Turchi report on trans-European networks. I have no problem about telematics being included in such a programme and I generally support the Galileo project. But the fact is that nearly EUR 1 billion is committed over the next five years, all from the public sector – from either the European Space Agency or from the Commission itself. By contrast, only EUR 200 million is allocated to the project by the private sector. My amendment therefore says that it is doubtful whether the private sector will come up with the goods early enough. I ask for a reserve of half the money allocated by the Commission for the first year of the funding to be set aside and released only if the private sector signs up to its commitments to take part in this project. I do not want to smash the project. I know there are heated discussions in the Council, and many nations have withdrawn their support for now, or are a bit uncertain. That is not my agenda. I just want to make sure the private sector comes to the party early enough to make sure there is more confidence in the scheme as a whole. – Mr President, it is very appropriate that we are debating these two very good reports only a few days before the Euro-Med Forum, which is due to sit next week. Various speakers have mentioned the importance of that forum, which must be raised over the coming years if we are to get the Barcelona Process back on track and expanding. I would like to speak mainly on the funding for the Euro-Med programme, for MEDA, and say I am disappointed at the very low take-up. The report mentions that is due to poor administration and procedures within the Commission. A former colleague of mine, Mr Patten, is doing his best to make sure that we do get spending in the right sort of areas – efficiently, effectively, and to meet the needs of the various countries. I am first Vice-Chairman of the delegation for Malta. They are not allowed to bid for as much work as they want. We need more transparency in the spending that is agreed upon. We need to know where the money is going and – very importantly indeed – we need a better audit trail of where the money has gone because a lot of talk in the media is about misuse and money going down the wrong avenues for the wrong reasons. That is an abuse of the position that we hold here. I expect to see a better relationship between Parliament and the Commission in the interest of all the countries in the southern Mediterranean area. There is a great deal of work to be done, it can be done and, indeed, it must be done. – Mr President, when we, in the PPE-DE Group, tabled Amendment No 4 we added the words: '... expects the legislative procedure to be concluded by the end of June 2003 at the latest'. I suggest that Amendment No 8, by the PSE Group and others, is split so that we have the first section from the start, 'welcomes the fact that the Commission has presented ...', down to the words '... in the Commission's budget' as the first split. The second split should be the remainder of that amendment. We would support the first part and oppose the second. That split would then be followed by a third vote –it need not be a roll-call vote –which would take up our words which stand alone from the rest of it: '... expects the legislative procedure to be concluded by the end of June 2003 at the latest'. I ask for your permission, Mr President. –  Mr President, I am addressing the Commission President and the President-in-Office of the Council in French in order to get my message across as clearly as possible. In addressing you, I wish to raise an idea put forward by my working party within the PPE-DE Group, and not to discuss the problems that we have as Conservatives. We have major reservations on many issues, especially the Charter of Fundamental Rights, for various reasons. I do not wish to discuss that. I shall leave that to others. My main idea is as follows: to concentrate on what will happen after Nice. We are aware, from the speeches made by President Chirac in this place in July, that at least three major topics stand out, namely the simplification of the Treaties, the sharing of jurisdiction between European, national and regional levels, what I might term the rights of states in the American expression (Section 10 of the American Constitution), and, thirdly, the balance between the institutions – though here we should especially, perhaps, consider the role of the national parliaments – i.e. how is our institution to be managed in future. We await a Commission report on this issue of governance. Would it not be a good idea, before going any further, to consult our peoples and involve them in what we are doing, instead of waiting for the outcome, then subjecting it to a referendum, even though they do not know what has happened? So my third question is this: how is this business going to be managed? What is the timetable? What is the procedure? And who is to participate in the system? Mr President, are we going to wait until the next IGC, until 2003-2004 before we can have a debate on these fundamental issues? In my opinion, this is something we should begin directly following the outcome of Nice. My second area of concern is procedure. The Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is right, we have to forget the IGC, the wise men and the closed doors. We must instigate a major debate among the citizens of Europe, getting them involved in our debates. My third point concerns participation. The candidate countries should certainly participate, but not necessarily the countries with which we have not yet started negotiations, such as Turkey. I think that is going a little too far. In conclusion, I urge you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Mr President of the Commission to give some thought to the provisions which would have to be incorporated into the Treaty of Nice in order for us to have this major debate and to avoid the utterly Kremlin-style approach of agreeing matters behind closed doors, in order to instigate debate with a view to a new European framework, whether or not it be constitutional, so that we may have direct contact with our electorate and may make a major success of the European Union in the future. – Mr President, I should like to deal with one aspect of this debate, and that is the long-term credibility of the European Union's institutions. Mr President-in-Office, you have come here today to give your commitment – which is very warmly welcomed – to deeper democratic control and also agreed to come before this House another couple of times before the end of your presidency. Since the mid-1980s we have made great strides with Treaty revision for greater parliamentary involvement in the democratic process. However, before the next Treaty change in 2004 and the European elections that year, we need to make more progress towards reform in each of the European institutions. Commission President Mr Prodi has made great strides towards being able to promote people on merit and make changes to various rules and regulations which will come before this House in the next few months. The trouble is that very few people in this House or in the outside world know about the changes which have been made in the Commission. We would welcome a document stating what has now happened, so that we know what has been going on. Mr President-in-Office of Parliament, we have your commitment to a thorough reform of our working methods and, as you have been in office for only 24 hours, we cannot expect changes already, but you have our support, in particular as regards Parliament's 2003 budget, for major changes in the way we work. Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have indicated in your programme that: – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work that he is doing for our House in terms of getting value for money out of our budget. It is not right that we should be expecting the Commission to do a whole range of things in putting their House and their budget in order unless we also take the same kinds of rigorous steps. The approach which has been taken is absolutely correct, not only in making sure that we do not simply give money away if we have a little spare in the budget, but also where we have asked the Secretary-General of Parliament to come forward with a number of reports: for example, in paragraph 6 of the resolution where we have asked the Secretary-General to look at and identify job needs in the same way as the Commission so that we can match job needs to the staff which we have available in the longer term. That quite clearly is a way of long-term planning which is very sensible at this stage of Parliament's life. There are three things which I would like to emphasise in particular in this Parliament Budget 2001. The first is a plea from an individual parliamentarian that we should make sure that we have a date firmly fixed for the second network computer in our offices. It is a matter of frustration for many of us that our staff can access the net with their computers, of course, Parliament's computers, but if we as parliamentarians bring in our own computers, we do not have a place to plug them in and work effectively. It is important to have a date when this facility will be available to us. Secondly, on a matter of communication, under paragraph 21 of this resolution, I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that we have on many occasions in these debates called for all Commission and Parliament offices in the Member States to work together within a European House framework by 1 January 2000. As we have now gone past that date and there are still one or two Member States, in particular my own, where Parliament and the Commission have different offices and where in terms of financing Parliament's office well over 70% of the expenditure goes on bricks and salaries, it does not leave much for communications. The sooner we can make sure that the image of the European Union is reflected by one European House, the better it will be. The last point refers to the question of the implications for enlargement. I would like to support what our rapporteur has said that we cannot suddenly leap into beginning to authorise posts for preparing enlargement if a political decision has not yet been taken; all the more so, because in Parliament's estimates, as I have understood them, we have in front of us an assumption that we are going to have more languages as a result of enlargement. Yet we have had no debate in this House to know how we are going to handle not a limited enlargement but an extensive enlargement following the Helsinki Summit late last year, with potentially 12 or 13 new countries, that is 27 – 28 countries with over 20 different languages. How, Secretary-General, are we going to handle this if we do not have some thinking from the Administration as to where we are going to put them all? Are we going to have rooms which we are going to have to adjust for over 20 languages so that in every room where there is a discussion in this Parliament every person has the right to use their own language? We are aware that in the last Parliament a lot of work was done on this by Vice-President Cot. His report was never released to Members. We never saw it as a report on suggesting how the hub and spoke system should work – the relay system for interpretation – nor, indeed, did we really have any thinking about the freelancing possibilities with modern communications where we can dispatch a large amount of our translation material to people who are in the Member States, rather than recruiting a whole range of people to come and work in Luxembourg as fixed and permanent employees of Parliament. Therefore, I strongly support the compromise which has been put forward by our rapporteur asking, by first reading, for the Secretary-General to come up with a strategy of how to handle the whole question of languages in Parliament and enlargement. I suspect the Commission might wish to do that as well, because it is a problem which rightly, in this amendment, relates to interinstitutional matters. I very much hope that the Socialist Group will change their mind, get their heads out of the sand and realise that this is the problem which we have to tackle and that it is better to do it now rather than later. – Mr President, I should like, as others have done, to congratulate our two rapporteurs for introducing our budgets for 2002 and, in particular, referring first to that of Mr Costa Neves, perhaps as the bulk of my speech this morning, I would like to say to Mr Wurtz that he has indeed struck the right balance in terms of priorities, in terms of responsibilities which the European Union has to manage – agriculture is central to that – and social issues, as we noticed in the Lisbon run-up and the follow-on in Stockholm last week. These are essentially national responsibilities, national budgets. We can do very little at European level to have large social programmes of the kind to which I think you were referring. What strikes me most in these two budgets is the emergence of interinstitutional cooperation, which ten years ago was perhaps more of a wish than a practice. I have in front of me the Council priorities, although for the first time in history no one is here to represent the Council. It is somewhat ironic that it says in the first paragraph of their document: "The Council welcomes the spirit of cooperation that governed work on preparation and emphasises the importance of continuing the good collaboration between the two arms of the budgetary authority and the Commission." Nevertheless one has to take at face value the statement that the Council wishes to examine closely the report which the Commission is to submit before 30 June 2001 on progress in reducing outstanding commitments to bring them down to a normal level. Those who were present in December last year will remember that when Parliament put forward this joint declaration, no one in the Council actually welcomed it. On the contrary, they seemed somewhat hostile to it. So I certainly welcome the fact that they wish to cooperate with us in trying to reduce the backlog of commitments, in trying to make sure that there is a better parallel between the legislative and budgetary procedures and that performance targets are set, particularly in Category 4 in external policy. Another area which reflects interinstitutional cooperation, which is important in Mr Costa Neves' report, is information policy, where for years we have been trying to get good value for money, and for years we have met with little success, to say the least. No wonder we find 50% of the information funds still in reserve, still waiting for the Commission's proposals. I urge the Commission to come forward with these as soon as possible, hopefully having discussed things with Parliament's own administration before doing so. Lastly, on external policy, our rapporteur has indicated the need to set priorities. We know that scarce resources in the budget will be with us for the foreseeable future. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy there is a very good idea, although not one taken up in Mr Costa Neves' report at the present time, that we should be seeking external advice on how to set priorities in foreign policy, so that we can begin to have some direction in the longer term as to how our money should be spent. We should investigate that more. Turning to the Buitenweg report, I should also like to emphasise the very clear emergence of interinstitutional cooperation in environmental and transport matters and as regards an interinstitutional recruitment office – which I very much hope will soon be up and running, to ensure that European citizens get the best value for money. There are one or two areas where perhaps there will be difficulties regarding interinstitutional cooperation, not least as regards early retirement. While we certainly support that, we would prefer to have a compulsory system, were that to be possible under the statute. We have had our discussions on the 2001 budget on that particular matter, and will certainly be looking to have these proposals applied within Parliament if possible. But most important – and here I address the Secretary-General of Parliament – is the letter which the president of my group sent to the President of Parliament yesterday about the absolute need to have a multi-annual plan for enlargement before the first reading of Parliament's budget so that we can get a grip on what is likely to come in terms of expenditure in linguistic services and a whole range of other matters. Please do not expect us to approve what you might propose later in the summer without having had a full debate with our political groups. That is highly unlikely to happen unless we are given the time to examine them effectively. To conclude, I welcome the fact that this interinstitutional spirit is emerging. We would like to promote that, respecting the fact that each institution has the right to take its own decisions. I hope that we will come to the right decisions concerning value-for-money for the citizens of Europe. . – Mr President, it becomes clear that the Socialists are shifting ground as we go through this debate. The original text of Paragraph 16 states that it is inevitable that "a significant increase of defence expenditures to fill the current capability gap" will be needed. I agreed in discussions with the Socialist Group to alter that to "an increase" on the assumption that our Amendment No 40 would be the basis for our compromise. We then went further, and I agreed to put an oral amendment stating it should be "adequate defence expenditure". As the Socialist Group has withdrawn its approval of Amendment No 40 at it stands, I suggest we revert to the original wording of Paragraph 16 – "significant increase" – and vote on that text first. – Mr President, I am as delighted as others are that we are having this debate today for the first time in our elected parliament in this session. It is long overdue, for the reasons which our previous speakers have already underlined. Relations between India and Pakistan are indeed deteriorating, with Kashmir being a particular bone of contention. Tensions are also being aggravated by the fact that these two countries are nuclear powers. Indeed, in the Herald Tribune of Tuesday, March 14, 2000, the headline reads: “Nuclear war between India and Pakistan is a real possibility”. For this reason alone, supported also by the well-known UN resolutions and the reference which has already been made to the constant violation of human rights, Kashmir is no longer a problem that can be swept under the carpet and not debated in this Parliament, as has happened for many years. It is increasingly an international problem and one where mediation will, in my view, become essential. So what can we do to bring long-term stability to this volatile region? We discussed this issue when we met with members of the US Congress in our normal framework of delegations earlier this year. The US is in favour of arbitration, but it strikes me that, when President Clinton visits these two countries next week, India should be asked to come to the negotiating table so that, together with Pakistan, it can find a long-term settlement to this Kashmir question. Equally, the European Union should, when formulating policy towards South-East Asia, raise the profile of this issue in order that we in the Foreign Affairs Committee can have a more substantive reason to have a debate in our Chamber in a few months’ time. As these two approaches are made, this two-pronged approach by the European Union and the United States is, in my view, the best way to start the process for long-term peace and stability in this region. – Madam President, this is an excellent occasion to have a discussion on the transatlantic partnership, now that the Iraq conflict is over and the dust is settling in the desert and before the Council and Commission head to Washington at the end of this month. It seems to my group that whereas in the 1980s the security partnership underpinned the transatlantic relationship and we had economic differences, now the economic market and integration on trade and investment are underpinning the transatlantic relationship, while the security side is looking somewhat fragile. Yet, for reasons which they both express clearly, the Council and Commission today see everything in the reasonably short term, rather than providing a longer-term vision of our relationship with the United States. An American diplomat expressed this nicely a few days ago: he said that we, in Europe, are looking at problems from a 2003 perspective: the problems of building the European Union, our foreign policy and the beginnings of an external strategy. The United States, on the other hand, is looking much more to the problems of 2020, with the weapons of mass destruction and a whole range of other things, on a global basis, which we tend not to do. The message which should be sent to the summit is therefore that politics, economics and security policy in the post-Cold War world are all beginning to be closely intertwined. Firstly, as regards politics. Yes, we need to understand each other, as the Council President has said, but surely we need more collaboration, not just in particular instances, such as the war against terrorism: we need a long-term framework to get to grips with that problem and shift the emphasis from a Community of values to a Community of action, dealing with problems of AIDS in the Third World, nuclear proliferation and a range of other things which Europe and America face jointly as global challenges. Secondly, in economics. We know, as the Commissioner has said, that global economic challenges bring us closer together, but surely it is by developing closer linkages, by developing a transatlantic market – much of that is already in place, but we need to add on financial services, the digital economy, competition policy and other things – that we can complete a transatlantic market over the next decade. Thirdly, in security policy, where we have the greatest difficulty, we have to ask the questions: will Europe have the military capability? Does it have the political will ever to emerge as a partner with the United States? In concluding, it seems to me that we need a long-term European strategy to know what we want before we can shape a transatlantic strategy and think on similar terms with the Americans. Secondly, we need a transatlantic summit which takes a strategic view, rather than looking at particular instances and particular problems. Finally, the big idea is this transatlantic market where we need to mobilise our business and political communities and listen to those we represent so that we can shape the world of tomorrow to our mutual benefit. – Mr President, first of all, the PPE-DE Group appreciates the documents which the Commission has put in front of us this morning. It is an historic and unique occasion. This is the first time in our history where we have had the opportunity to debate budget guidelines with policy documents at the same time. So now we can see how we begin to fit the priorities to the resources available. It is a pity that the Council is not with us because it too could have been part of this debate. I shall start with the broad document which has been produced by the Commission this morning. It sets out the outline of Union finances post-2006, rightly asking which project we want in terms, for example, of the competences that the Union will have, the limits to the geographical size of the Union, and a whole range of matters which set our budget debate in the right perspective. First I shall deal with the substance. It is right that we should have a range of ideas, with working groups set up by the Commission dealing with peace and prosperity and with questions of sustainable development. But in terms of the external side, the working group does not cover what the external dimension of the Union should be. As the President said about the current context, it would seem to be relevant that we should be thinking about substantive issues such as what the transatlantic partnership is going to be like in five years' time. We have asked for a report. It has not been produced. Indeed, we included in the budget for this year – 2003 – a request to have a document drawn up. When one asks the question, 'what should be the strategic priorities for the Union in the external field to 2007?' a deathly silence descends. Next, in terms of procedure, we should be a little careful that this Commission, although very active in looking forward to the next financial perspective, could bring us in theory to 2013, which not only covers the next Commission but also the Commission after that. To find ourselves in 2003 already discussing 2013 all seems rather far away. In this context there is one specific question I would like to ask the President of the Commission. The last phrase of this interesting document says that the duration of the next financial perspective could be brought into line with the five-year mandate of the Commission and of the European Parliament. Does that mean that the financial perspective would be to 2010 instead of 2013? The PPE-DE Group is in favour of the financial perspective covering a five-year period. I would like some clarity on that point. While talking about the Commission, Mr President, you mentioned the Convention. When we envisage a post-2006 Union with 500 million people or more, how will it be possible to run a Union with fewer Commissioners than we have today? There seems to be this refrain across the House at the moment that we should have 10 to 12 Commissioners. I do not see how we can run a Commission with only 10 to 12 Commissioners when most governments have at least 30 to 35 ministers to run their own countries. We are dealing here with the Union, a much bigger enterprise, so why not have 30 or 35 Commissioners? It seems to me quite normal that we should do so in the context of the Union of tomorrow. Secondly, the priorities of the budget for 2004 are well set out in the annual policy strategy document in terms of the three points that are made. Concerning sustainable growth, it makes sense to have better integration of environmental concerns. In addition, the PPE-DE Group is interested in the document concerning a better relationship with our neighbours in terms of security and stability. Above all, we are interested in the enlargement process and in making sure that we can fulfil our obligations and that Member States are fully integrated into the Union after 1 May 2004. We also share the view that the procedure for dealing with these policy strategies as they go through the committees and then through the budget process will be very important in order for us to be able to see that they are properly brought together. The questions we will be asking concern the significant rise of 780 in staffing numbers and, in particular, whether we need so many civil servants in the interpretation and translation departments. Finally, I come to my group's priorities during the budgetary process. We remain faithful to what has guided us in the last few budgets in terms of three particular elements which are important to us. Firstly, the completion of the reform of the institutions. This is where the Commission started out. We would like to ensure that this reform is completed by the end of our mandate. We still find irritations here. Yesterday mention was made of a document which was quoted partially in the press about the ongoing affair of the chief accountant who has been suspended. We would like to see that document. It is not so secret - most Members, including myself, have a copy. Why is there this fear, this wish to keep secret a document that is already half-known? We would like to see that document as soon as possible. Secondly, there is the question of the A-30 subsidy lines – a specific, but very sensitive point for Parliament. We would like to be clear on what the Commission will be proposing in terms of these subsidies for particular institutions. We have differing views across Parliament as to what should and should not be benchmarked and we need a common approach on that. My last comment pertains to a letter I have from the Secretary-General about follow-up to parliamentary acts. Here we find that at least 25% or 30% of reports that we ask for in this House are never produced. It states with regard to Parliament resolutions on COS documents that, of the 490 requests we made last year, the Commission has decided not to follow up 104 cases. We would like clarification as to why the Commission is not doing what Parliament requests and we certainly feel that there should be some reflection in the budgetary process if the Commission does not wish to do what Parliament has requested. I conclude by saying that this is a key moment in this budgetary process. The Commission has set out some useful lines of discussion and debate looking ahead post-2004. I hope that at the end of the process our Parliament will be able to reach the right conclusions in the interests of our citizens. Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur on this report. I seem to remember saying a few weeks ago that I regretted that would be the last time he spoke as chairman of the Committee on Budgets, and yet he is still here. Who knows what will happen in our new Parliament, assuming of course that we are both re-elected? This debate highlights how the EU institutions seem to rush into debates before fully preparing the ground. In the brief time available, I would like to reflect on the period in which the financial perspective has been in operation. A few of us were Members of this House in the 1980s, when we had turbulent budget debates that were not over-affected by the limits imposed, and then had the financial perspectives from 1988. Since then we have witnessed an enormous rush in European history, from the disintegration of the Soviet Union to German unification, followed by the rush to include countries from central and eastern Europe, which will be complete in a few days time. We have noticed over this period that the financial perspective, as Mr Colom i Naval pointed out in one of his working papers, is indeed somewhat rigid and requires certain changes. Since we are now on the brink of central and eastern enlargement, it seems to me that this period should be one for reflection as we bring in new countries, although possibly not a united Cyprus. It is slightly odd that we have had this debate without the full participation of the representatives of the central and eastern countries, when we realise there are huge problems and challenges concerning the absorption of those countries, as regards not only institutional operation but also policy making. In this debate we are looking ahead to the distant date of 2013, and although useful policy documents exist we have yet to see them. We are therefore right to call for these documents so that we can see exactly what basis has been used to assess how to ensure the European Union will work for 25 countries and how to ensure that Europe will become more competitive, and indeed meet its international obligations – the members of the European Council take decisions on our behalf, but very rarely provide us with the requisite budgetary framework. There are therefore three points which we should include in our message to the incoming parliament and the incoming administration of the European Union. Firstly, there must be a coherent strategy for the European Union in the years ahead so that we know what the Union's priorities are to be, both internally and externally. Secondly, we should avoid trying to stretch the political credibility of the Union too far in taking on ambitions that the institutions themselves are incapable of handling at the present time. I refer in particular to future enlargement for a country like Turkey, as things stand. Lastly, we need a period of consolidation during this financial perspective period, to make the European Union not only an effective operator internally and externally, but also an operator that is seen to be truly democratic and smooth-functioning. If we try to take on too many of the ambitions harboured in certain quarters, our institutions will be incapable of fulfilling them. – My group welcomes this new procedure. It is rather an imaginative way of reshaping our political debate on the priorities for the budget for 2003. My particular role in introducing it today is to look at our strategy as a group, one which we have accumulated over the past couple of years. On this basis we have six particular points which we have put down as amendments which I wish to review briefly. The first refers to how we handle outstanding budget commitments, which now amount to something around EUR 110 billion. In a joint declaration which we signed with the Council on 14 December 2000 we wanted to see these commitments reduced to normal levels by, if I remember correctly, December 2003. Therefore, the first of our amendments aims at getting clarification from the Commission as to exactly what its intentions are in trying to fulfil this commitment, how it is going to be done and how quickly it will be achieved. Secondly, in terms of Commission reform, which was also included in this joint declaration back in December 2000, we wanted to have a range of knowledge about how to achieve the reform. Some of us are in doubt about how far this reform has gone, how the rest of it is going to be achieved and when it will be implemented. That is the reason we have put the five hundred posts in reserve, which we wish to see released in stages as and when we receive information about the completion and the effectiveness of the reform. Thirdly, in relation to this there is the specific case concerning the Chief Accountant, where we have put a small amount of Commission travel expenses in reserve. We want to get to the bottom of the situation. We are seeking information and not the resignation of the Commission as some have rumoured. Therefore, we want Mrs Andreasen to come and tell us exactly what her allegations are. We also want to know exactly what the Commission's response to those allegations is. Fourthly, we wish to deal with the Council in terms of foreign policy and security. This is because we have had amounts put in the budget for 2003, but before approving them we want to enhance the position of the other institutions – Parliament as well as the Commission – in knowing how policies will be implemented. We have an instinct that we do not like to see the Council spending large sums of money in managing foreign policy without proper accountability. Fifthly, we have consistently said as a Parliament that we do not want to see expenditure on Afghanistan made to the detriment of other spending priorities in category 4. We are therefore suggesting that the flexibility instrument could be used for this purpose as well as perhaps dealing with that commitment made in the 2002 budget to deal with the EUR 27 million on fleet restructuring. Lastly, we have taken a slight departure from the norm and are recommending that the 220 Council posts are not approved until we have received a satisfactory explanation on a number of points which are listed in our amendment. These include the implementation of the early retirement scheme. We also need explanation, more particularly, on foreign policy so that we know what the projections are and how the Council thinks expenditure might be implemented over the next five years. I conclude by saying that this has nothing to do with revolution or our socialist leader, who says that these are undercover censure motions. This is about accountability and the proper functioning of democracy, where we as a Parliament are taking our responsibility in the budgetary process, using the reserve on a judicious basis to get the information that we need to be able to carry out our job effectively. – Mr President, although I agree with many of the comments that have been made today about the year 2001 having been reasonably successful, there are real grounds for concern about the way in which this debate is taking place today. Firstly, as a matter of principle, we have the institutional agreement of 1993, which says that the programme should be presented by October, and then our agreement of 2000, under which we are to have a broad debate about the programme before it is implemented. Neither of these have been fulfilled in this particular case. Why is this totally insufficient? Firstly, the programme which is presented to us lacks focus. It is somewhat difficult to see priorities when you have seven of them and, within the priorities, lots of themes which are generating new ideas. If you have more than three priorities, as Bob Zoellick, the USTR, said, you lose yourself in detail and you can never focus on what is really important. Secondly, we have a lack of detail. I understand that we now have a legislative programme sent by e-mail, but Parliament has not been associated with this and it seems, as other speakers have said, that we had a legislative programme which was not implemented this year. Mr Barón Crespo is right that we did not want it. We wanted a political programme and legislative programme and Parliament to be associated with that. Thirdly, there is a lack of coordination: not just coordination among ourselves but with the national parliaments. As Mrs Kaufmann said: how is it possible to establish a programme for the European Union if not all the actors who are concerned at political level are associated with it? This leads me to say that we were better off with President Santer. We were better off with the last Commission as regards the way in which the programme is presented. At least we had a programme in its outline and there was a real effort to try to get institutional priorities, and we had a legislative programme with details, which we could see in front of us. My conclusion today is that the Commission is there to propose. It has the right of initiative but it is not the European government. It cannot come to us and say this is what the European Union's programme is going to be and expect us simply to accept everything that is in its documents. Do you not agree, Mr President, that it would be better for the success of the European Union if we were to go back to presentation of the proposals of the legislative programme in October? We would then be able to discuss, debate, consult on and conclude a programme which the Union could put forward for the year ahead. If you have all of us with you, you will be better off than if we have interinstitutional wars, which you seem to have started this morning. – Mr President, I would like to join those of my colleagues who have already thanked our two rapporteurs, Mr Färm and Mr Stenmarck, for their very helpful contributions to our debates this morning. On the Commission, firstly, I would like to see us having an ongoing monitoring of the budget to follow up the work of our colleague Mr Costa Neves in last year's budget. I think this is particularly relevant as we have now changed the way in which the work programme of the Commission is formulated so as to have more input from our specialised committees. I fully support that particular point. Secondly, I would like to join with what our colleagues and in particular Mr Titley have said so far about foreign affairs expenditure. I guess it is the big spenders from the Foreign Affairs Committee who are seeing all these commitments being made and we in the Budgets Committee who are querying where the money is coming from. It seems to me that we need a priority-setting, forward-thinking agenda, which is why we are supporting the idea of a study, so that we in the Budgets Committee should have an idea where the money is coming from. Lastly, we would like to know if the reform of the institutions has continued. I would like to ask the Commissioner when we can expect a final decision on the early retirement scheme. Insofar as the Parliament budget is concerned, we support those colleagues who have criticised the Administration for trying to suppress the EP-rom study. We need a proper resource management discussion in this Parliament, and, particularly, we would like to see a coherent, effective and politically balanced Administration. The reason for that comment, Mr Dell'Alba, was precisely because there had been . There is an imbalance in the Administration and I would like to be sure that the Administration is seen from the outside as being effective and politically balanced. Secondly, insofar as the political groups are concerned, to ensure effective control of the Administration, we would like to see them strengthened. Lastly, in terms of enlargement, we would like to be sure that in interpretation we have controlled multilingualism; that in translation, we are looking at the aspects of teleworking; and, above all, in the buildings, that we do not take on any commitments to construct new buildings until we know they are absolutely essential. – Mr President, I should like to make a brief statement on an incident which occurred this morning at our group meeting. This particular group invited Mrs Andreassen to come and give evidence to us on a matter of technical information about the accounting systems. We found much to our surprise that when we arrived, she had been gagged by the Commission and was not allowed to give any information to either the assembled parliamentarians or the press present. What a clear majority of our political group would like to ask is whether the Commission can justify under what grounds Mrs Andreassen was gagged from giving us technical information about a substantive item which we need to know about. Perhaps more importantly, how is it that the framework agreement between the Commission and the Parliament does not now allow us as parliamentarians to talk to people about technical matters and how far, therefore, does the Commission reach into our institution? That is for our Bureau to decide and we would like to have clarity on that issue. – Mr President, I would like to make three remarks about the hearings, their results and the elements that still remain to be put in place between the incoming Commission and Parliament. On the hearings, I agree with Mr Corbett that it has been a good start, but there are several things that need to be improved when the issue comes up again in 2004, for example, the possibility of our voting on individual Commissioners after a committee or at least an indicative vote to see whether the committee was really in favour or not. Secondly, we should have time in the hearings to follow up questions which it was quite clear were treated unevenly by the committees. Last but not least, the committees should have equal time. The Committee on Fisheries for instance had only one hour whereas other committees had three hours. We in Parliament need to sort out these details. As for the results, without referring to individuals, many in my Group have already indicated which performers have been good or less good in the incoming Commission. Our Conservative position has been set out by the Conservative Leader Mr McMillan-Scott. We are left with an imbalance in the Commission and it is there that I believe we need to make some progress. Firstly, in the light of our experience from the discharge for 1996 for which I was responsible, can we really be sure that, if we do vote against an incoming Commissioner, that Commissioner will resign? Secondly, how can we be sure that we will get the information which we need? There was so much frustration in the last Parliament about not being able to get the information we required. Finally, as regards the codes of conduct, we need to know that promotion will be on merit and that promotion at the highest levels of the Commission will involve managerial competence, which has not always been the case up to now. In conclusion, these are important elements, at least for my Group. We want to see these included in our operating agreement between the Commission and Parliament because the numbers abstaining or voting against the Commission tomorrow on the final vote will depend on how far those elements are in place by tomorrow. – Madam President, apparently the Committee of the Wise Men may be presenting their report to the President and the group leaders sometime today. If that is the case, could you please ensure that these are the final conclusions and that they are available to all Members as soon as possible? Mr President, it is certainly good, as Mr Wynn said, that we have this kind of generalised debate. We hope it will not be his last time for presenting this report to Parliament as the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, but there may be life after 2004. We congratulate the two rapporteurs, as always, but we would like in this particular budget to take a cautious approach to the budget overall. As the Commissioner and the President-in-Office of the Council said, there will be major changes as a result of enlargement, as well as activity-based budgeting. We will also have three different Commissioners between May and November 2004. It is going to be a turbulent year. For this reason, my group does not wish to see any opening of the revision of the Financial Perspective over the next 12 months. This would be an unnecessarily complex thing to start at a time when we will be out on election campaigns and the present Commission will be in its last year. We had great problems, in the last legislature in 1999, with negotiating a financial perspective which then tied not only the current Parliament and Commission, but also subsequent ones, to a situation where they could not revise it. It smacks of Soviet-style planning that we should start now to think of what financing will be like in 2013. We, as a group, would like to have a five-year financial perspective negotiated from 2005 to apply from 2006 onwards. I should like to refer to two points in particular. One is Commission reform. Last year we linked the Commission's request for new posts to a comprehensive review on what had happened on Commission reform. It produced a very impressive numerical report. What we would like this year - and we have tabled an amendment to this effect with one or two other points - is to have not only a report about what the Commission has done, but also a report showing what has gone wrong with the reforms and what still needs to be done to ensure that there is proper communication - Eurostat is only one example, though a rather high-profile one. The report also needs to show, quite clearly, where the reforms have not taken place. Is it true that, as Mrs Andreasen stated in a press release today, if the accounting systems had been put in place before, we might not have had this kind of problem? Who knows? We wish to clarify it and to have a document to that effect. The other point is the question of Iraq. Mr Wynn asked what the purpose of this amendment was. We believe that, at this stage of international development, Europe needs to show that it is not only capable of acting on the world stage and assisting with humanitarian aid and reconstruction in Iraq, but can also put a figure for this item in its budget. This figure pales into insignificance compared with the EUR 30 billion which the President-in-Office of the Council has said has been reimbursed over the last three years from the budget to Member States. A figure of EUR 500 million for next year focused on Iraq would show very clearly Europe's willingness to cooperate with the United States and others in bringing that country to the path of prosperity. In conclusion, we wish, as a group, to be able to be principled and responsible in this budget process. We want to ensure that parliamentary priorities will be maintained. All three issues which I raised are ones on which Parliament has the final say. You can expect us to be constant in the process which is now opening out ahead of us to the end of the year. – Mr President, I particularly welcome the efforts of the Commission President, Romano Prodi, to set the contours of this debate, which follows on from our debates in January and February in this House. Now, it is not the post-Nice debate but the debate on Europe's future. It is vital that European institutions get this opportunity right. It is a rare occasion in history where peoples of Europe can potentially have their own say on what a so-called constitutional framework would look like post-2004. It is now up to Europe's political leadership to set the terms and determine the nature, breadth, substance and intensity of this debate. At present there is some imagination but little action, given the extensive nature of Annex IV of the Treaty. This morning I looked at the website that the President of the Council mentioned. There is no mention of Parliament participating in the debates on 7 March. It is simply a web page with no facility for citizens to communicate their own views by e-mail. There is only a skeleton programme which is put on this web page under the Belgian Presidency, who will have a business forum. It is deeply unimpressive and needs to be looked at immediately. So let us look at the future debate. First, its nature. It needs to be politically led rather than bureaucracies being left to run expensive programmes which will look like propaganda in the view of our citizens. Perhaps this would be a subject for Stockholm: stimulating heads of state to start debates. Madam President-in-Office, you have said that this should be something which should be done but in my own country our Prime Minister, Mr Blair, has been curiously silent on this subject. Secondly, the breadth. This needs to be something which will involve all parts of society, as Mr Bonde has said. You cannot simply preach to the converted as you did in the European School a few days ago. Thirdly, the substance of the debate: that needs to be considered in terms of papers, broad dialogues and other ideas of this kind. Lastly there is the intensity of the debate, which needs to be developed with the best technological means available. I conclude by saying that in our Parliament we need to network with the national parliaments, the Council needs to give us the lead through the heads of state in each of the Member States and last, the Commission can produce guidelines so that we know what course this debate will follow. We can then discuss this when we come to ratify the Nice Treaty a little later this year. – Mr President, can we take that as an assurance that no letter will be sent until the Bureau has met again on Thursday, because that is what I think the House would like to hear? – Mr President, a few years ago discharges in this House used to be perfunctory debates, certainly not held on Tuesday mornings. But we now have a wider remit to discuss this subject. and over the last few years it has been realised that discharge is a very important part of the life of the European Union. Under Article 276(2), the EC Treaty requires the Commission to submit to Parliament any necessary information on the execution of expenditure and operation of the financial control systems. Article 276(3) of the Treaty requires the Commission to take all appropriate steps to act on Parliament’s observations concerning execution of expenditure. It should not be any surprise to outside observers, or those in the system, that as Parliament has become more authoritative in ensuring the democratic accountability of the institutions, it will not be simply fobbed off with a lack of reply to questions which have been asked, however far they go back into the past. I congratulate all the rapporteurs on the discharges before the House this morning. I have a few comments on Mr Kuhne’s and Mrs Stauner’s reports. Firstly, on the question of the Parliament discharge. There has been significant progress on a number of issues outstanding but it is clear from Mr Kuhne’s report today that there are still a number of issues to be clarified: the question of the calls for tender; the issue of the financing plan for buildings; the question of the security service for this House here, and not least the question which is raised under paragraph 15 of the Kuhne report, concerning personnel policy. Here it states and I quote: “deplores most strongly the residual impression left by these cases, whereby it would appear that favouritism plays a significant role in the granting of appointments to high-grade posts within the administration of Parliament”. If we take the context of this report we will see that it has to stand on its own merits. If we add to that the Court of Auditors’ report on the operation of the political groups, we have come to the conclusion in our political group that we need to postpone discharge on its own merits. It is not a question of the popping of champagne corks between Brussels and Strasbourg, that is an irrelevance if I might put it politely. It is not a question of parallelism, it is a question of substance. As for the admissibility of the amendment, I draw to the attention of the services of Parliament and to your attention, Mr President, the fact that Annex V of our Rules of Procedure does not apply to the Parliament discharge but applies to the Commission discharge and therefore our amendments should be considered to be admissible. Secondly, I turn to Mrs Stauner’s excellent report and the explanatory statement. It is a pity Mrs Morgan is not still here in the Chamber, because I understood her to say that you cannot just leave a discharge to systems alone; it is the question of access to information, so that we as a Parliament can grant discharge. You can ask for access to information, but if you do not get it then you have to start applying a certain rigidity and postpone discharge. The explanatory statement very clearly sets out the reasons for so doing. I come to two points here. The first is access to information. We do not have at this time a framework agreement between Commission and Parliament – that is still outstanding in the context of Annex III. Why? Because Parliament and the Commission cannot agree about what access we have to information. The impression is left that we are foot-dragging, but in fact we are not getting complete answers to the questions put by Mr Bösch and Mr Blak. Parliament is not getting the answers it requires. Secondly, the question of the disciplinary procedure. It is an arbitrary procedure. It seems that high officials get off and ex-parliamentarians, who are in the Commission services get downgraded for no apparent reason and against the information available. I am thinking of the case of Mr Zavvos in particular. Therefore we, as a Parliament, should look at each of these cases as it stands. My group will be in favour of postponing discharges both for the Commission and for Parliament until all the information is available to us. – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for coming here today to give us his statement for the meeting which is going to take place next Monday. He has rightly said that the transatlantic relationship is one which has expanded greatly in the last ten years – mostly, it is true, on the American side thanks to President Clinton; but I think that history will relate that there has also been a European contribution to this new relationship, which has been a fundamental key to the way in which it has worked, through the Transatlantic Declaration of 1990 and through the new Transatlantic Agenda under the Spanish Presidency in December 1995. I think it would be very helpful, as the Commission prepares this new document on transatlantic relations, if we in Parliament could be given a document which analyses the progress which has been made so far in this relationship in looking at, for example, the success of the EU educational centres, success in terms of policy cooperation on such matters as AIDS, immigration, aid development issues and even on foreign policy questions such as work on transatlantic houses in Ukraine. Equally it would be very helpful to know, because we are financing these in the budget of the European Union, how the dialogues have been developing. The TABD, the Business Dialogue was very successful in its last meeting in Cincinatti, but we note that since then the Environment Dialogue has closed down in the last couple of weeks. Therefore, I think an analysis of what has happened would be very helpful. To conclude, what next? I believe that where we in this House are, as the Commissioner rightly pointed out, building up relationships, through the Legislators' Dialogue between the European Parliament and Congress, we would hope, in the longer term, to see that turn into a form of transatlantic assembly. Equally, we would like to see how the different dialogues of the business dialogue can be put into a broader partnership framework. I would ask the Commissioner, in the run-up to the release of this document in April, under a new US Administration, apparently, it was decided today, under a new US President, hopefully George W. Bush, to see how to deepen this partnership in the future, based on the new Treaty of Nice which extends the activities of the European Union so as to enable it to be a real partner with the United States in the decade ahead. Madam President, I join with others in thanking the rapporteur for giving us an excellent basis for our debate on this very sensitive subject this morning. I would also like to thank Commissioner Verheugen for having come from Switzerland late yesterday evening to inform us of the situation regarding the talks with Cyprus, which is intimately linked with our debate this morning. Two weeks ago I attended the EU-Cyprus Joint Parliamentary Committee, and while there was little optimism, there was a real desire for the two communities to be united on 1 May. We hope very much that this will take place. On Turkish accession to the Union, Mr Verheugen gave us a very detailed analysis of the political and economic reforms that have been made. I welcome, as others have, his belief that a clear objective assessment should be made on the basis of the Copenhagen criteria. I have a copy of the Copenhagen criteria of 21-22 June 1993 in front of me. It states that: 'Membership requires that the candidate country has achieved stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for and protection of minorities, the existence of a functioning market economy as well as the capacity to cope with competitive pressure and market forces within the Union.' However, then it states: 'The Union's capacity to absorb new members, while maintaining the momentum of European integration, is also an important consideration in the general interest of both the Union and the candidate countries.' Much has been said in this debate about the great progress Turkey is making, but very little has been said about the Union's capacity to absorb a country of the size and nature of Turkey. Therefore, we need now to look not only at Turkey's ability to join the Union, but also at our ability to absorb it. When coming to the question of the big picture – which Mr Duff mentioned – many in my political group believe that this involves the ability of the Union to absorb Turkey on the one side and the Turkish ability to meet those criteria on the other. We believe, therefore, that there should be a fundamental assessment of the institutional capacity of the Union to absorb Turkey and that this should be part of the Commission's report in October. So we should have the courage to look at the situation in a very clear and reasonable manner. Therefore, with 25 Member States from 1 May, 21 languages, no post-2006 financial perspective in view until 2005 at the earliest, and doubts about whether a Constitutional Treaty will be agreed and ratified, the most sensible thing would be to say that there is real uncertainty in the Union's current political situation, and to be extremely cautious before giving Turkey the green light at this stage. – Mr President, I am pleased to be the first to congratulate our rapporteur on putting together a package for the budget for 2003 for our Parliament. Many of the items included in his report are ones which we, as a group, can fully support. In particular the provisions concerning enlargement, especially the inclusion of observers and other provisions. There are, however, three points that still remain of concern to us. The first relates to an early-retirement scheme, which we would like to see applied in this institution as it is applied in others. We would like the Council to come forward with the right kind of conclusions so it can be included in the 2003 procedure. This, along with other reforms, will help to prepare our institution for enlargement. There are two other items of greater concern which relate to the way in which the administration responds to the demands and consultation of parliamentarians. The first refers to the Interinstitutional Recruitment Office which we as a Parliament, and indeed as a Committee on Budgets, have been calling for for many months. We now find ourselves faced with a text but without the means either to amend or discuss it. We understand that Mr Gargani, as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, has sent a letter this morning to the President stating that committee has concerns about legal administrative questions. My group also shares those concerns and therefore we support what Mr Stenmarck has put in his report, namely that we would like the relevant committee to have a report on this proposed recruitment office before a final decision is taken. In addition, we understand the Council wishes to amend this document and, therefore, we do not see why we, as parliamentarians, should not also have that right. Lastly, buildings: my group has discussed the needs of enlargement so far as offices and so on are concerned, and we have put in a request. No decision has yet been taken in my group as to what buildings we need. Yet we understand that negotiations are in full swing for the construction of new buildings in Brussels, for which authorisation has been given neither politically nor in relation to the Committee on Budgets, since we have no documents available to us. This is why I have tabled an amendment, on behalf of my group, which calls for this question to be clarified. The Podestà report concerns translation and interpretation and there should be a report on buildings to indicate what commitments are needed, unlike in the past when Parliament has been faced with a fait accompli, and then had to sign up for the bill. In conclusion, on these two items, we would like to see greater sensitivity on the part of the administration and the Bureau towards parliamentarians, because ultimately it is the Assembly that is sovereign. – Mr President, I would like to continue this internal PPE-DE debate by focussing solely on the Laeken Declaration. It is right, as the Declaration says, that European institutions should become closer to the citizens, less intrusive, less unwieldy and more efficient and open to democratic scrutiny. It is also right that a whole series of questions should be asked in terms of simplifying the process of legislation, on clarifying competencies of the Union and indeed restoring perhaps one or two to Member States, as is mentioned. How to involve the national parliamentarians too is a very important aspect and lastly, it is right, as the President of the Council said, that this is a new departure for Europe as a way of amending Treaties rather than having decisions made behind closed doors and smoke-filled rooms early in the morning. There is a real doubt, however, that these statements of principle will actually become reality. Is the agenda, as some feel, already decided in advance? Will all the voices in the European political spectrum be heard? Will indeed, above all, the views of ordinary European citizens, be taken into account and listened to in the work of the Convention? There were some signs under the previous Presidency but not I am afraid under this one, that they did actually care about European citizens. It had a website – ‘Europa’ or whatever it was, – but we have not heard much about it under this Presidency. In the conclusions of the Council relating to the Convention, one paragraph is devoted to the forum and it seems to be more about informing the network of organisations than having their contributions in the work of the Convention. I therefore make this one appeal today that in the praesidium, and perhaps helped by the Commission, national parliamentarians and others, we really should have a real European debate in the Member States involving European citizens so that when we end up with a constitutional framework, we really have something that Europeans can support. This is the only occasion in history, that I can think of, where citizens can be consulted before a constitution is drawn up rather than afterwards. So please, Commissioner, ensure that everything is done to make sure this European debate will actually take place. – Mr President, like others I would like to thank those who have been part of this budgetary process, particularly our rapporteurs as we come to the end of the fixing of the 2004 budget. As others have commented, it will be sad to have a Committee on Budgets without the chairmanship and the fairness, humour and goodwill of Mr Terry Wynn. But who is to say who will be chairman of that committee? If the biggest group in this Parliament decided to have the Committee on Budgets as its primary committee then it would not naturally fall to the PSE if it was not the largest group. But this is all for the future and we should not be indulging in too much speculation. Rather we should be happy that we have had a great chairman who has been in charge of our committee during this period in Parliament. I would like to stick to three themes. The first is the question of the Commission reform. In this debate I have heard it said that we should not be having reserves, particularly a reserve on Commission posts at this stage, because the Commission would like to have all those posts for enlargement purposes. We fully understand that, but we think that a small number – 25 out of 270 or so posts – should be located there because we would like to have a clearer definition of what has actually been achieved in the reform process and what still needs to be done. In this Chamber last month, Mr Prodi, the President of the Commission, was indicating that yes, there are some things, which recent events, such as the Eurostat affair, have revealed in relation to lack of information flow or responsibilities here and there. By 15 February 2004, we would like to see a document that refers to these particular types of items, informally completing the document we received from the Commission a few weeks ago. Secondly I would like to turn to one particular aspect of this budget, which is external financing. One criticism I heard from Mrs Buitenweg is about why we as a Group have been asking for certain funds to be placed in the reserve. In comparison to many previous years, this year we have been extraordinarily modest in putting funds in the reserve because we want to see some indications in Afghanistan that action is being taken to try to solve the extraordinarily different problems of drug production. 70% of the drugs that arrive in Europe come from Afghanistan. Mrs Buitenweg! I see you are supporting me in the Chamber. Perhaps under the circumstances I could refer to you as an honorary member of our Group! We are thinking about releasing this money as soon as the reserves are released. We have a letter from Commissioner Patten – you can ask Mr Garriga Polledo – saying that progress is on its way and therefore putting money in the reserve has actually been to some real purpose in that field. In Iraq, as other Members have mentioned, we have seen some recent changes which will of course change the nature of financing in 2004. My Group looks forward to Commissioner Patten coming forward with the document which is meant to be looking at medium-term funding for Iraq. We believe that further funding could well be needed out of the 2004 budget for this purpose. The flexibility instrument is already in use, but it is for 2003-2004, and therefore some funds will remain should there be other causes which we have to finance, whether in Iraq or elsewhere. The fundamental political point I would like to make here - and I believe it is a view shared in all parts of the House - is that we cannot continue to finance external policy simply by relying on goodwill when utilising the flexibility instrument. We have to be able, when we come to the next financial perspective, to think clearly what our priorities are and how are we going to be able to meet them. Some Members in the House in 1999 doubted whether we had enough funds in Category IV for external funding. We have been proved right in the operation of this and therefore when these negotiations open out in 2004, with the document from the Commission looking at this question of financial perspectives, we need to be clear that we have the funds necessary for our ambitions. It seems to me that this is now going to be the big debate we will be holding next year when we have elections: a new Commission will be coming in and a new Parliament. What is the framework going to be for our financial perspectives over at least the five years from 2007 onwards? On the front page of the  today we see at least six Member States saying that they do not want to exceed 1% of GDP. Our message as a Group is: please do not decide, as governments, to sign up to actions which you then do not wish to finance, because it then makes the whole question of the running of this budget impossible. In conclusion, when we come to the financial perspectives we are going to have to be very realistic and very coherent, but above all, let us make sure that when we have ambitions we have the means to achieve them. – Mr President, I do not agree with those speakers who said that the Commission as our negotiator did us wrong so far as the European Union was concerned. On the contrary, I would support those who have said that not only did they have a coherent delegation to lead but that the practical arrangements for us – the largest Parliamentary delegation which had ever attended international trade talks – were to our mutual benefit. It looks as though we will have to wait for the new millennium now for a Millennium Round. Was it a victory, a disaster or an unexpected welcome break in Seattle? People are right to say that the procedure should have been better. We need better decision making. We need quicker dispute settlement procedures. However, it was the substance which was the problem: an overload of a traditional trade agenda with non-trade issues. Globalisation has led to a number of issues which touch the sovereignty of Nation States being put on a trade agenda. President Clinton's call for the enforcement of trade labour standards for developing countries and elsewhere in the world was the death knell of these talks. But linking these two together – procedure and substance – I welcome the Commissioner's support for a parliamentary body of some kind. This will not only help the democratic accountability of the WTO, help to provide an on-going interface with non-governmental organisations, but also help the gradual evolution of the non-trade concerns on the agenda. These are, after all, concerns of elected representatives. In this respect, it is an unexpected welcome break. But let us have no illusions. The US Administration is not going to change its position before the election. Nevertheless, when we were in Seattle we had excellent talks with US legislators. I ask the Commission to help us develop our contacts on discussion of specific issues such as agriculture in the intervening period so we can assist this intermediate solution. I believe they are willing to have dialogue with us on a number of specific issues. Maybe dialogue between transatlantic legislators can help in this area. – Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the Commissioner for their comments this morning. I believe that we have reached one of those critical stages in the development of the transatlantic relationship in its global context. Firstly, looking at the overall relationship, it is quite clear – as our two speakers have said – that since 11 September 2001 we have seen a significant change in the way in which the Americans view their place in the world. We see an America under attack – one which we recognised on 12 September in this House, but which perhaps we now fail to recognise six months on. Secondly, we are in danger of seeing an unravelling of the security side of our relationship, where a political consensus underlying NATO cannot now be taken for granted for out-of-area responsibilities. We see the military gap widening and perhaps difficulties also in expanding NATO operations. Thirdly, the strong impetus that came with the 1995 New Transatlantic Agenda now appears to be under threat because of a lack of political vision and, perhaps, frustration at the lack of results among many of the parties involved in the dialogues. On the specific case of steel, I can only welcome the comments made by the Commissioner in deploring the US decision. The Commission should take action to seek compensation, and look for legal means of taking retaliatory action. I would also add that it would be very unhelpful, as Mr Aldonas at the Department of Commerce in the United States has suggested, for the US to link this steel dispute to the wider issue of problems in the global economy. That surely is not the way to go. Fourthly, I come to what we might be able to do in the present context. It is indeed tempting to think of taking retaliatory action through tariffs. However, as  stated on 7 March, in Bush's folly, tariff walls would amount to an own goal. It would simply be a futile effort by the Americans to preserve unviable jobs in steel. Surely, therefore, we should be looking for a broader transatlantic partnership in which to define Europe's role and America's role and build on our common interests together. As regards NATO, that means ensuring that we can move NATO on to more global responsibilities. Furthermore, your meeting on 2 May at the EU/US Summit to update the New Transatlantic Agenda to meet new challenges must ensure that the political communities are properly involved. In conclusion, it is up to you to provide leadership. We must be tough and take the necessary action to protect our interests in this steel dispute, but also think of the broader context and form a vision of how the transatlantic partnership should look in the 21st century. – Madam President, it should be said at this particular stage that it was the British Conservatives, the EPP, who asked for this item to be put on the agenda on Friday simply because, as Mr Watson has said, the Commission will only be ready on Friday morning. I therefore reject the allegations of Mr Donnelly. British Conservatives were in favour of making sure that we have free commerce in the European Union. We want to make the internal market work and have British beef bought on the continent. *** . – Mr President, I should like to thank the Council for the detailed summit conclusions it gave us, as well as the appreciation that there was a real need to have a look at a long-term strategic view of the transatlantic relationship, taking into account security and political and economic aspects. This was at the heart of the report adopted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy by 40 votes to 5. I would remind the Commissioner not to personalise debates in the way he did – although there was an element of humour about this – because I represent the views of the committee and the amendment he referred to was adopted unanimously by my group. We hope that in time the Commission will fall into line with most of this House and the Council in understanding that there is a need for a longer-term review. That is what we have requested, and we expect a strategic report to be presented by 30 September 2003. I hope the Commissioner can produce that for us. – Mr President, I would like to start by giving my warmest congratulations to our two rapporteurs who have prepared our debates today on behalf of our committee. They have both done an excellent job for us and I know it is not easy to coordinate the position of others, having been a rapporteur myself. The context of our debate today is that we must use whatever opportunity we have in our budget to make sure that our European institutions are ready for the next stage of enlargement, both in terms of the institutions’ structures as well as improved policy management. I turn first to Parliament’s budget. Our rapporteur, Mr Ferber, was absolutely right that we should avoid placing posts in reserve in view of enlargement at this stage – the motto should be “more haste, less speed”. We in Parliament should coordinate with the other two institutions on what we should be doing in terms of enlargement for translation, interpretation, buildings and personnel and we should work out a joint plan between us. Our administration should be very prudent about the linguistic sector. We are after all thinking of enlargement for ten countries and not just five so we need to take a broader view. Secondly, I have a specific comment on category 4 and on our external policies. We know that our debates on the budget will address this on many occasions. But I would like to pick up on the comments of the Commissioner, Mrs Schreyer, who said that there are a number of instruments, a number of means by which we can come to terms with what is requested for this year, whether it be the flexibility instrument or indeed the negative reserve, where we could perhaps find the credits available for this year despite the problem of how to manage that in practice. We must remember that there are other means than necessarily revising the financial perspective. But of course my group will be at one in saying we must resolve this problem as soon as possible so as to give a long-term perspective of how the European Union’s aid is going to be used in MEDA and in CARDS. Let me turn to the overall strategy. This is the first budget debate for a considerable time without a substantive issue of dispute between Parliament and Commission. The framework agreement between our two institutions is now in operation even if it is disputed by a few of our Members. No discharge is outstanding, the reform process started by the last Commission under the strong urgings of our Parliament has been taken up in earnest by this Commission. Some progress has been made but there is a long way to go. It is this background which is crucial to my group’s approach to the 2001 budget. Having always been in the vanguard for change in the European institutions, for example with our support for never giving discharge for the 1996 budget, we are now absolutely determined that the reform process will not be lost as larger and more political issues begin to dominate our agenda in the run-up to the Nice summit. We focussed our efforts on three specific areas: better execution of the budget, more effective management of European policies and successful implementation of the reform package with particular reference to the new posts requested by the Commission. Before coming to that, a word on the position of the British Conservatives. To the surprise of many in my delegation, we established a core strategy unanimously at the beginning of September and the 400 amendments introduced by some of my colleagues came as somewhat of a surprise to many of us in the Budget Committee. While some had a legitimate purpose – to improve financial control of this House over the budget, many more had a destructive intent – not to save money, but to delete very worthy organisations such as the European Union Youth Orchestra. As it turns out, the moderate face of conservatism has for the most part prevailed over the more ideological and unacceptable one. There are some 30 amendments now retabled over and above those of our core strategy. I personally did not put my signature to them because one or two of them still go a little too far. Yet a healthy majority of the Conservative delegation wishes to play a constructive role in the European process – unlike one or two Members who can only think of deconstructing what is here. This brings me to our group’s strategy, because at the core of our belief is the wish to get value for money for the European citizen. We want to be sure that funds set aside for specific purposes in the budget will be spent and not accumulated year after year. This is why we have called for a strategy from the Commissioner to deal with the backlog of commitments, in particular in external policies, by the end of 2003. It is my hope that the Council will also be able to agree this strategy. It includes a limitation on the duration of commitments for which agreement will be required by the Council. Mr President of the Council, my group could put more payments on the line if we were certain that policies were being better managed. Secondly, we have established reserves in several parts of the budget where we think management of the available funds is weak, in particular setting aside large sums in external policy and for the final amount to be agreed between the two arms of the budgetary authority based on the idea of the performance reserve. We think this is a good idea, because if you see things are running well than that is where you put your credits. You do not put it on those programmes which are not running so effectively. Thirdly, and linked to these items, is the request for more posts. We understand that there is a need for more personnel, but what is of most concern to us is that we do not grant this request until the reform process of the institutions is well under way. It is difficult to see how more posts will solve the problem of management if there are still antiquated and complex procedures both in the Commission and Council for dealing with the many programmes. Mrs Schreyer came forward with an interesting suggestion which we should consider about the idea of a performance reserve in category 5, so that some posts would be available and we could then give more as the process improves. This is why we have called for a trialogue as soon as possible once this reading is complete, so that we can get down to the substance of the discussions. Greater efficiency within the Commission and more effective policy management over the life of the current financial perspective will give more confidence to the European citizens that their taxes are being put to good use and is the only way to ensure that the EU can achieve the wider goals of consolidation within its boundaries after the Nice summit and the gradual enlargement of the EU to the east. We are looking to rebuild people’s confidence in our institutions. Europe’s interests will not be served by having a weak Commission and an itinerant Parliament. On the contrary, we must work for a Parliament which campaigns for openness, efficiency and effective democratic control of the European institutions. – Mr President, on a point of order, firstly as Mr Schulz will well know, as he sees the lively debates in our group which go on in public and in private, we have already attracted one of his members, Mr Balfe, who is a member of our group now. We welcome any others who wish to cross the floor because we would like to have an overall majority in this Parliament, as we have in the Quaestors! Secondly, Mr Schulz is quite right that we need to fill up the time. Perhaps that is why Mr Poettering is looking a little pale, perhaps it is overwork. As far as time is concerned, while we are in Strasbourg we should use it to full effect, otherwise it just influences the other part-sessions where we then have to do things that we would not otherwise do. – Mr President, we were indeed suggesting that as a Parliament we are looking for reform of this institution. I do not think going on beyond 1.30 p.m. is a reform. We should break at this stage and take the votes that remain at 5 p.m. this evening. – Madam President, I would like to be clear that if we have agreed that Zimbabwe would be the fifth point then there is no point in voting in any other points because we already have five points on the agenda. Mr President, I would like to join with you in thanking the Irish presidency for everything it has done so far, in particular in ensuring the success of this enormously historic occasion of the welcoming of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, which, as other speakers have said, will go down in the annals of history. I would like to contribute a few thoughts at this stage. This morning speakers have been talking about the past, of Jean Monnet and Altiero Spinelli. I would like to give a few ideas of how one might see the future. I am not sure that I share the Commission's idea that we should be looking at enlargement as the sole focus of our energies. It is true that within the European Parliament we now have a fantastic variety of representation of traditions and cultures, but this is not what Europe is going to be about over the next five to ten years. In the last 20 years we have seen this question of enlargement go together with the deepening of the Union. We are now at a point where we see the limits to competence and to the geographical expansion of the Union being reached. Therefore, I have three remarks to make. Firstly, when a new Commission is appointed, we need some vision and strategy of how to handle the internal problems of the Union. The question arises in our own Parliament of how we are to handle the vast array of different political parties, 25 nationalities and 20 different languages. But, perhaps more importantly for our electorate, we must determine how to remain competitive in the global economy and how to ensure the internal security of our citizens. These are debates that will come later this afternoon. However, for ourselves today, we face the question of how to ensure that the European Union will be a player on the world stage, how to handle the questions of AIDS in Africa, how to contribute towards peacekeeping, and how to ensure that the Union has a presence in the world. A few weeks ago, we adopted Mr Brok's resolution on how we would like to work with our transatlantic friends, the United States, as we move from a Community of values to a Community of action, so that together we can see how a global system will work. In the next few years we will need to think of how the European Union can really make an impact on the global stage, as a partner rather than a rival of the United States. Therefore, on the question of how we are to handle enlargement, the majority of my Group would be in favour of consolidation of the Union rather than continuing enlargement simply because countries feel that they meet the criteria. The essential clause in the Copenhagen criteria is that we should take account of the absorptive capacity of the European Union in order to welcome countries as they would like to be welcomed and as we have welcomed the ten Central and Eastern European countries today. I would urge in the coming months that we look at the provisions on privileged partnerships under the Constitutional Treaty. Not everybody has to join the Union in order to meet the requirements of their foreign policies satisfactorily. We in the Union have to be sure to coordinate everything that is available to us in a financial, political and economic way – as the President-in-Office of the Council has said for the Turkish side of Cyprus, which is not yet able to join the European Union. We must find the legal basis, the means by which we control the funds, and deal with a whole array of different things to enable us to create a stable, prosperous and secure environment for citizens of the European Union to live in. In conclusion, when we look to the future, at enlargement and our neighbours, we in the European Union must be more prepared to look strategically at our own interests. What do we want, where do we want to go and what do we want to say to our citizens so that we can live in peace within our frontiers and contribute to global peace outside them? For the majority of my Group, this means that we need to think in terms of consolidation over the coming period, rather than enlargement. In time we can enlarge, yet under no account should we enlarge so quickly that we undermine the European Union, which we have built so strongly in the last 40 years. – President, our spokesman will be speaking for our Group later, but I also have a few comments to make at this stage. As other speakers have already done, I should like to congratulate our two main rapporteurs, Mr Costa Neves and Mrs Buitenweg. It is never an easy job to steer something through this House, as I know, and I think that they should be warmly applauded. With the Commission budget this year, we have a proposal in front of us which, at 1.06% of GDP, is one of lowest budgets we have seen proposed in this House and therefore well below the ceiling as foreseen in the Financial Perspective, but I guess that with enlargement on its way, the Financial Perspective could well be tested before we reach the end of 2006. In referring to the Costa Neves Report, I should like, first of all, to congratulate the rapporteur on having focused on the progress report, on what had been done in terms of following up on the Joint Council/Parliament Declaration at the end of last year which has shown its worth in our budgetary procedure. It may well be a useful idea to think of continuing this on an annual basis, because where we have gained is looking at the efficiency and effectiveness of the operations of the European institutions, and this for us in Parliament is a point of major importance which I shall come back to at the end of my speech. I should like to raise a few points on the particular matters of the Commission budget where we would, as a group, be looking for value for money – a tried and tested position with us. Firstly, in terms of agriculture: we do not believe in having a reserve – we already have some money which has already been made available and a letter of amendment on its way, and I feel that it is quite sufficient. But we think there should be an enquiry into the management of foot-and-mouth by the Commission and the British authorities, and we will be pushing for that. Secondly, we believe that in information policy there is a continuing problem: every time we see Commission proposals come through without the interinstitutional working groups, we as a Parliament have to put them back on the information policy lines. I urge the Commission to make sure that they become a permanent part of your proposals – this will save some effort on our part to ensure that this interinstitutional work is continued. Thirdly, in terms of the food safety agency – I noted that was raised in the European Council in Ghent – I would remind the President-in-Office (instead of laughing, he might listen to parliamentarians when they are speaking) that Parliament's position is that the money will stay in reserve until we are satisfied about the operations and the location of this agency. I therefore assume that you will consult Parliament before any final decision is taken. Fourthly, as regards Afghanistan – and I turn to the Commission again here – there is an amendment down to create a ‘pour memoire’ entry for aid to Afghanistan, and we will be asking the Council with Parliament to put this into the budget on second reading because we want to see in our Group that there will be an international alliance to help the reconstruction of Afghanistan once the conflict is over, and initial thinking on this issue is already under way in the United Nations. Lastly, I would like to refer to the question of the posts which we have put in reserve and we would like to ensure that the conditions for the reserve are met before the posts are released – including the fact that the Commission has the capacity to use the posts during the next year in terms of the vacancies. There is, however, one more very critical point, and I turn again to the Council of Ministers here. Rumour has it, Mr President, that the early retirement package which is being negotiated in the Council at the moment is not open to Parliament. I would like you to confirm in any future remarks that it will be open to us – that is a critical point for our Group as we wish to see it applied across all institutions. I conclude, Mr President, on a point for our institution. Yesterday evening, the Bureau decided, in opposition to the resolution of Mr Harbour, to go against the idea of having a linear career structure – I quote paragraph 38 of the Resolution which we voted in this House last November – "urges Parliament's administration to introduce a linear career structure in parallel to the Commission allowing for easy interinstitutional transfer". It is unacceptable that Parliament's Bureau seems to have gone totally AWOL and decided for itself: under pressure from Parliament's administration, Parliament's Bureau has chosen to ignore what this Parliament has voted for. Therefore, you will have to answer three questions, and I end on this. Why is the organisation and the function of Parliament so distinctive from the Commission as to require a different career structure? Secondly, how can a career structure retaining four different categories meet the objectives of a linear career structure with progression on merit as strongly supported by Parliament? And lastly, how can staff mobility between institutions be encouraged if Parliament and the Commission have different career structures? The Bureau has to come and justify before this Parliament the decisions it has taken as they are not in line with our resolutions. – Mr President, I wish to join with the others in thanking our redoubtable duo, Mr Färm and Mr Stenmarck, for their excellent work on behalf of Parliament during this budget procedure. They have both outlined that we are now thinking of a Union which will be extended to at least 25 countries. For both Parliament and the Commission, enlargement is the main emphasis of this budget. I would like to express a personal view. I hope that in future we will avoid too many referenda and too many votes being taken on particular subjects. It might become contagious in this House and we might adopt a resolution and then consider voting again because we have reached the wrong conclusions. That said, I should like to refer to Parliament's and the Commission's budget. Our group has strategies for both these budgets, and they have by and large been implemented as we reach the current stage of the budget procedure. On Parliament's budget, we would like to emphasise the need for extended provision for freelance translation – because this is going to be an important factor in the years ahead. We are pleased that early retirement has been extended to the political groups, and thank the Council for that – even if it is absent from this debate this afternoon. We would like full transparency in the Council in future and for all its legislative discussions to be open to the public. These are questions which all our group supports. On the Commission budget, there are four relevant points. Firstly, on payments and backlog, we would like to see a real effort being made to reduce the EUR 110 billion in commitments. We are asking, as stated in the resolution, for a report from the Commission as to how it is going to achieve this objective of eliminating outstanding commitments. Secondly, on internal policies, we are still looking for better value for money and for some of the monies for information policy to be retained in reserve, because we would like to see savings on administration and human resources. We expect a report from the Commission on this subject by 30 April 2003. Thirdly, on external policies, we would like improved accountability. Therefore, we are supporting the appeal by our rapporteur for more information concerning the interinstitutional agreement between the Council, Parliament and the Commission on the expenditure of money on foreign and security policy. We would also like to know what kinds of expenditure the Council is expecting over the next five years, because we also agree with the rapporteur that it is unhealthy to think that the Council is going to be involved in large expenditure of funds which would not be subject to normal accountability and use. Equally, we are asking the Commission to come forward with some form of thought process. There seems to be some lethargy on the part of the Commission when it comes to thinking through what kind of priorities we should have for foreign and security policy in the future. Lastly, my group would like me to say that we want to see this reform process completed and we need to look at how this whole process is being conducted. We are convinced that progress has been made but we are not yet convinced that this whole programme of reform is going to be implemented. We would like to know that you are out there selling it to the general public and that these reforms will be completed by the end of next year, as the most recent reform document from the Commission stated. But, before we approve the new posts, we would very much like to see the reform elements in place and to know you are convinced that this whole reform process will be completed. If this is not done so by the end of the current term of the Commission and Parliament, we will be in breach of the commitments we made to our electorate to ensure that real institutional reforms are carried out. – Mr President, my group welcomes the fact that this debate is taking place this evening because this is the first time that we have been able to have an annual policy strategy debate this early in the process of the budget for 2003. The fact that the Council – although it might not be listening – is actually present in this debate is an important sign that the three institutions should indeed be working coherently together. My first point is that we are looking at a significant change in the process of doing things where, firstly, we have a definition of Commission policy priorities, secondly we are trying to ensure the right match between tasks and measures for 2003 and, thirdly, that we welcome this idea of having a strengthened institutional dialogue so that we can ensure that the budget is actually collectively decided. Of course, that debate starts here and now in March 2002. So, are the priorities the right ones? It is still very early in the day to know that but the fact is that we have been able to find: enlargement, stability and security, and the sustainable inclusive economy. It is very difficult to find a subject which does not fall under those three but, in the light of the way in which this has been prepared, we in this House and our committees will find the right way in debates to put forward where we think the priorities lie. There will surely be debates, for example, on enlargement. Can the Commission, as it says, complete the linguistic and administrative preparations for enlargement during 2003? Can it continue to implement the reform of the Commission so it will be entirely modernised by the end of 2004? These are questions that we are clearly going to have to raise and the same applies to stability and security. The wish is expressed to set up the European Food Safety Agency and get it operational. As far as I know this decision has not yet been taken and, therefore, we need to be clear about what we are trying to do in these debates. Clearly, in the sustainable inclusive economy there are a whole range of different issues in terms of having the human and financial resources available. This raises the point of your 500 non-permanent posts, which we are going to have to examine in detail. To conclude, this debate is something which is to be welcomed. This document sets out a number of clear targets to be achieved in which we, in Parliament and the Council, will have to participate. Hopefully we will be able to end the year with the better matching of budget and legislative procedures which we have been asking for. I would conclude by noting that there is one major point on the availability of financial resources. It clearly says in the document that payments will be restricted, not just for the repayment of outstanding commitments but that payments should be contained elsewhere in the budget so as to make sure we do not go over the ceilings required. Therefore, 2003 will be an exceptionally difficult year but we have started early enough to find the right kind of solutions. – Mr President, I would like to thank the President of the Commission for giving us two speeches within the space of 24 hours. Last night he clearly pointed out that we have the prospect of a successful European economy ahead of us for the next two or three years and quite clearly, if we have unexpectedly higher-than-normal growth, then that will help us in the endeavours of this annual legislative programme. The Commission President's speech this morning raises three concerns in my mind. The first relates to subsidiarity, where we feel strongly in our group, as the Liberals have just said, that we need to have a test for every single proposal put forward to show that it is in the European interest. Subsidiarity must be seen to apply: it must be clear that we are not legislating where it is not necessary to do so. The second concern relates to budgets. Given the higher growth rate than was predicted in the financial perspectives, which are based on 2.5% growth, we can see our way forward to taking slightly different measures on budgets than we would otherwise have done. On behalf of my group I would like to caution the Commission not to go ahead at this stage with shifting agricultural expenditure from category 1 to category 4. In Britain in particular we have a farming industry which is in desperate straits and wants to see some assistance given to certain sectors of agriculture: shifting money for agriculture from one part of the budget to another at this stage would be to give them a wrong message. Lastly, a word of caution about the question of information. This is what bedevilled the relationship between our Parliament and the previous Commission: the fact that we, under the Treaties, have access and the right of access to all information in principle. It looks as if we are running into difficulties with our framework agreement. I therefore stress that, if we want to have the Commission and Parliament working together, we have to be able to come up with a solution to this problem as soon as possible and not to have limitations on documents which are available to citizens. As Mr Bonde rightly pointed out, we should have a European Union where there is a free flow of information from the bureaucracy to all our citizens. Mr President, I, like other colleagues, welcome this debate, because it makes sense to have a debate on the legislative programme before we take decisions on the 2004 budget. The priority of enlargement, along with the other two priorities, makes real sense for the European Union. Since most of the Commission is here, it would make sense to summon all our colleagues in order to hold a real debate on what the European Union is going to be. That would suggest we should cancel all meetings outside the Chamber to allow our colleagues to be present. I wish to make a remark about the Commission reforms which, as you have said, Mr President, were the reason for the Commission coming into office. My Group has continually pressed for reforms based on the Wise Men's report. There has been significant progress, and most recently we received a very positive document detailing changes in the financial regulation and the staff regulations yesterday evening in the Committee on Budgets. However, this document still fails to address the weaknesses in the way the Commission is operating, as revealed by the Eurostat affair. In the light of the three steps you outlined to the Committee on Budgetary Control this morning, my Group is disappointed at the way in which the reforms have been implemented. One or two of our members said to you that reforms in relation to the flow of information, proper internal audits and Commissioners' responsibility for the services they run should have been completed by September 1999. If the institutions are to be successfully reformed, which is vital if our citizens are to have confidence in the way in which they are run, it is a problem, as Mr Blak has said, that nobody seems to wish to take responsibility. You have sacked a Director-General, but the Commissioners are still in place. You reassured us this morning in the Committee on Budgetary Control that the Commissioners will have responsibility, but there are still unanswered questions. My main question, to which I would like a reply, Mr President of the Commission, concerns the internal documents relating to Eurostat. You have come forward with proposals for the reorganisation of OLAF. However, we as a Parliament are still waiting for OLAF's report on Eurostat. Are the suggestions for reorganising the whole system coming from OLAF, because OLAF is a Commission service, or are we going to be able to have OLAF's report so that we as a Parliament can assess the situation and come to a conclusion? Other speakers have already said that we will need a strong Commission during 2004 to ensure that we can manage the responsibilities of the Union effectively. – I would like to contribute to this debate by making three remarks of the following nature – general, specific and political. Firstly, a general remark. From the outset we should be in support of this round, we should have a positive outlook to ensure that we can avoid protectionism, promote free trade and extend prosperity in the world system to other parts of the world. It is a pity that Mr Pasqua has gone. He said that there was no debate in this Chamber, but I would refer him to results of the economies run by Britain and the United States where they are achieving in a world trade system high rates of growth, low rates of unemployment, low rates of interest. The French economy and one or two other continental countries could learn from that particular experience. Might I say too, in terms of the general debate, that the communication of the Commission has indeed laid down four major principles for the Agenda of the round which we fully support in my Group. Not least we support the need to have a comprehensive round because if the round is as broad as possible, we will be able to make progress in the end. On specifics, there is one comment I would like to make about agriculture. Quite clearly, this is going to be one of the most sensitive areas to be investigated, in terms of export subsidies, in terms of the vital need to maintain the rural areas, but also in terms of food safety. These are three of the main issues which the round will have to deal with. It may be, Mr Commissioner, that the Commission together with the US administration could come up with some kind of Green Paper sketching out where the differences are and where the common interests are between America and Europe because as you know, in your previous role, unless America and Europe agree on the major outlines in an international round such as this, we will never conclude. And therefore, maybe an informal document such as this would be useful for Seattle. Lastly, of a political nature, there are a number of networks and non-governmental organisations now which are indeed in favour of world trade and would like to take a responsible part in these negotiations. There are others, which are much less responsible, more militant in nature and likely to be present in Seattle. It is for those reasons that, if we want to ensure that consumer and social and labour issues are part of the agenda, we must ensure that these networks do not actually take over our agenda. We therefore need, I believe, to have a large parliamentary delegation in Seattle from this Parliament at least equal in size to that of the US Congress to make sure that we can represent what the views of this House are there as well as being able to ensure that as this negotiation takes place on non-tariff as well as tariff issues. These are legislative problems and therefore legislators need to be present. I therefore endorse those colleagues who have said that we should have a strong parliamentary presence. The three institutions of the European Union must cooperate and it would be very interesting to have the both the Council’s and the Commission’s view on the need to have a strong European parliamentary presence in these negotiations. – Mr President, this is an important debate to hold at this juncture, after the first few months of the US administration, with the visit of President George Bush to Göteburg in June and the Commission's initial thoughts on the common foreign and security policy. So where are we today? We have a timely communication before us, which points to the breadth and growth of the transatlantic relationship from the declaration in 1990 to the new transatlantic agenda in 1995. The number of subjects it covers will continue to grow and we will probably see a consolidation of ideas on the monetary dialogue and other aspects. Secondly, the communication contains ideas on how to make the process more effective. Thirdly, it underlines the importance of engaging civil society and building parliamentary links. But I think it is wise for us to ask whether these perspectives are really sufficient for the next five years. Common economic interests and concerns are increasingly global and not bilateral, while regionalisation is increasingly seen as an alternative to the WTO and multilateralism. US security interests are shifting towards the Pacific, even if NATO and EU enlargements will demand transatlantic political management in the months ahead. It is difficult to focus together on defining common strategic interests like, for example, the Ukraine. In view of these aspects, my group considers this communication a disappointing one. It is more a stocktaking exercise than one that will encourage a broader transatlantic partnership. In other words, it does not match up to the requirements of the developing transatlantic partnership in the future. Why, for example, have fewer summits if there are going to be more rather than fewer issues to discuss? How do you prioritise the agenda if you have already set eight strategic themes? How do you include the US Congress and the European Parliament in the framework without setting out any ideas for its inclusion? The communication refers to an Interparliamentary Assembly. That is not what it is. It is a delegation which has converted itself into the Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue. So we need broader thinking to develop the transatlantic partnership before 2004. It is time to get away from the humdrum bulk-carrier idea; something rather more visionary, I suspect, would be required at this stage. First, we should stake out the ground for a broader transatlantic partnership. Why not make sure we can re-energise the transatlantic business dialogue? It is in some difficulty. Why not think of an annual Atlantic Summit, which would bring together the EU, the US and NATO, because politics, economics and security policy are increasingly interlinked. Secondly, we should follow the ideas of the Houston Declaration of the US Congress and the European Parliament and involve the parliamentary community more in the summit process. Last and not least, we should use the summit with George W. Bush to draw up an agenda for the period until 2004, to establish a deeper transatlantic partnership and to fulfil the aims that both the Council and the Commission have said they want to achieve. – Mr President, President Lincoln said you can fool some of the people all the time, all the people some of the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time. What is currently happening in the aftermath of the Irish vote on the Nice Treaty is unacceptable by any standards of Western democracy. A Member State, under the provisions of the Treaty, has sounded out its people on the conclusion of Treaty changes. They have for a number of reasons declined these changes. This result cannot be ignored, either on the basis of a lower-than-normal turnout – what price legitimacy? – or because some people feel that the only good referendum result is a positive one. As the EU moves towards enlargement, we must not suggest to countries waiting at the door of the European Union that democracy and the rule of law can simply be overruled, by tacitly encouraging the Irish Government to hold another referendum sometime in the future. No tinkering around with additional protocols will convince the sceptical public to vote in favour of Treaty changes which are difficult to explain and bring nothing of real benefit to improve the effective operation of the European Union. There is only one way to reassure public opinion and maintain the vital goal of EU enlargement. The Nice Treaty must in time cease to exist. In these circumstances no treaty in these circumstances is better than a bad treaty. Instead we now urgently need to hold a genuine, substantial debate about the future of the European Union. The idea of a non-binding convention, to which other speakers have referred, is an idea whose time has now come. This process will only be successful, however, if all European citizens are involved and consulted on these essential issues. By the end of 2003 at the latest, the national parliaments should then be able to ratify either the relevant provisions of the Nice Treaty or those of the convention. Should the European Council not follow this course and be seen to be trampling on the democratic procedures in small Member States, this will only serve to further alienate a European public which is genuinely in search of more information. Europe and its institutions can only be built with the long-lasting support of its peoples. – Madam President, in this instance I cannot agree with the previous speaker because this relates to the Statute for the Members. It is the difference between Parliament and the Council in this instance. It is a different issue to the one we dealt with before. We maintain our amendment. Mr President, we welcome the debate this afternoon. As the Commission President has announced, this is a Commission decision already, and to come first to us in the Parliament is always an agreeable thing so far as budgetary matters are concerned. First, from my Group's perspective, we will be taking the view that Mr Wynn has just expressed: we would rather be very prudent about whether we need the financial perspectives at all. We had multiannual agreements which keep discipline, which we did not have before the financial perspectives were introduced. We do not wish guidelines – which is what financial perspectives are – to become an end in themselves. We should recall very clearly as we go through this discussion that we have the right under Article 272 of the existing Treaty – not necessarily under the Constitutional Treaty but the existing Treaty – to be able to continue the budget process, and we shall therefore be very careful to see that parliamentary rights are properly safeguarded in the whole process. Secondly, if there is to be a financial perspective, we welcome the ideas that the President has put forward today about better flexibility, categorisation and looking ahead to how money will be properly spent. Let us be clear that there will not be any decision in this Parliament about the final nature of this financial perspective. We also have to take inspiration from Mr Colom i Naval's advice and knowledge of this. You and I, Joan, had a common view about the last financial perspective and I sense it is very clear that we have a shared view on this one, particularly regarding the length of the financial perspective. We have made it very clear, in Mr Wynn's resolution and in our own Group documents, that we do not want a financial perspective to go beyond the term of office of the next Commission, because how can one possibly justify in democratic terms that we are deciding for future parliaments and for future Commissions? We should stick to the term of office of the next Commission, which is five years. To suggest a date after 2013 is to suggest that an old parliament will be committing a new parliament after 2014; it does not work. We will have to come to terms with that fact. The last thought is that now we are going to have enlargement – 25 countries – we know the difficulties will be very great in managing a European Union. Does this financial perspective address Turkey in any way? Or will that be an additional expenditure? Should you decide in December 2004 to start negotiations? For many in my political group, and maybe across the Parliament, to start full negotiations with a country when you do not even know what your existing financial capacity is – to run a union for 25 countries in this way – would be extraordinarily inept and irresponsible, because we need to know what the basis will be when we are negotiating with a country of that size. Therefore, in conclusion, please let us avoid, when we come to decisions on this, a Soviet-style approach to planning which is going to take us too far into the future of our commitments. Secondly, let us make sure that it is properly democratic and let us not take decisions which we will regret later because we have taken on countries for which we do not have the financial capacity. –  Madam President, I of course share the sentiments expressed by Mr Bourlanges. However, we have to look into the question asked by Mr van Hulten, because, when it was raised by Mrs Morgan earlier on this week when Mr Provan was in the chair, he said he would examine whether it was possible to see what was going to happen. Therefore, maybe you could respond to Mr van Hulten’s question and possibly discuss this matter with the Bureau, that will meet to clarify the situation. Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the presidency for the hospitality shown in Ireland. It was indeed a memorable occasion, though I did not know that we were in Mr Roche's constituency. Of course, we were very well received and the hospitality was superb. Thank you very much indeed, Mr Roche. The spirit of your remarks and of Commissioner Patten's shows that, despite the enormous difficulties we have had in transatlantic relations in the past few months, a great deal could be achieved at this EU-US Summit if we have sufficient courage to do so. The remarks made give me some encouragement that we can make real progress. My first point concerns the question of the joint study – which you mentioned, Commissioner – looking at the economic aspects. I warmly welcome that because, if we can look at the remaining barriers to trade, we can aim for a barrier-free transatlantic market. Perhaps you might have the courage to say that this should be done within a ten-year period. That would genuinely galvanise communities on both sides to overcome the remaining obstacles. My second point, perhaps as important, is that we should look at the broader framework of transatlantic relations. As you have said, Commissioner, so many subjects form part of this agenda: the environment, foreign policy, industrial and social policy and, as we have seen, PNR data as well. It now needs a new framework to take these into account and, in particular, bring the parliamentary dialogue into the broader framework of the relationship. I therefore welcome the fact that you wish to carry out an independent review. I hope this wish will be shared by our American friends as well, so that at the EU-US summit next year, when we have the incoming administrations, we would be able to pave the way for a broader agreement, possibly a partnership agreement, to be struck between the EU and the US perhaps by 2007. Thank you very much for your comments. I wish you well, President-in-Office, and hope that, when you come to Dublin, we will have a statement to set out the future of the relationship which both Europeans and Americans can recognise. – Mr President, like other speakers this afternoon, I welcome the successful conclusion of this budget process. It is certainly one of the most peaceful that I have known and my congratulations on the excellent work done by our two rapporteurs. There are in any budget process successes and failures. We in our political group, as Mr Ferber has indicated, feel we have had more successes than failures in this budget process. Three issues stand out, and I would like to mention them. The first refers to the improvement of the quality of budget execution. We insisted from the beginning that we should pick up on the Commission, Council and Parliament declaration of December 2000, specifically looking to reduce outstanding commitments to a normal level by December 2003. To that effect, we suggested the appropriations for staff should be put in the reserve. As a result, we are now promised a document for the PDB 2004 setting out how we are going to eliminate abnormal outstanding commitments by the end of 2003. I think that we have some way to go, but this is a step in the right direction. Secondly, so far as appropriate involvement of Parliament in CFSP measures is concerned, what concerned us most was to how to get Parliament fully involved in consultation and information on how the monies will be spent by the Council. For that purpose, we withheld money in the reserve at first reading, so that we could have a proper negotiation with the Council on second reading. And now we have a joint declaration in accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement, setting up for the first time a way in which Parliament will be fully involved in consultation and information, including in political dialogue on the CFSP. We also have put funds into the budget so that the Commission can come forward with a study establishing CFSP priorities over the next five years. I very much hope that this study will be completed. Last and not least is the question of successful implementation of the Commission reforms. For my group, this is an essential point. We therefore suggested that we should have some overall view of this and, for that purpose, on first reading, we put 500 staff into the reserve – the additional posts requested. Lo and behold, as a result of this, we now have a comprehensive report which I was just discussing with my colleagues – including Commissioner Kinnock this morning – observing that progress has indeed been made. But we would like it more widely known that progress has been made, but there are other methods under discussion in the Council at the moment and decisions to be taken before we face the electorate again in June 2004. Therefore, I think that on these three items, the 2003 budget has been a success. We had a strategy and we had some muscle enabling us to achieve that, by withholding monies or posts so that action could be taken. We must be vigilant over the next few months and ensure that progress continues to be made on these three items because none of them has been fully resolved in this 2003 budget. But it is thanks to Parliament's powers and the determination of our political group to use them that we have made progress on those three items so far. I end with a word of warning: current proposals in the European Convention seem to be aiming to restrict Parliament's power in the budgetary procedure – we should make sure that this does not happen. Madam President, we have indeed been set challenges by our two rapporteurs, but I would like to focus on three issues in particular: enlargement, Commission reform and, last but not least, Iraq. I fully accept, as does my Group, that the major goal for this budget as set out by Mr Mulder is enlargement. From the outset we wanted to ensure that a full budget will be available for the new Member States, and that the commitments will be effectively implemented. We still realise, however, there will be many difficulties ahead as regards the day-to-day running of an EU with 25 Member States, particularly where translation and interpretation are concerned. This leads me to reform. In my Group we believe that as far as the reform of the Commission is concerned, we really need to make sure that there are signs that something has changed since 1999. We have therefore put the 272 posts in reserve. One of our main conditions is that an assessment be carried out of the changes that have occurred and the action that still needs to be taken. The Eurostat affair and the issues concerning whistleblowers and the position of OLAF show that the Commission is slow to tackle things. We would like to see the latter issue raised as a separate discussion on the basis of an oral question in the November part-session in Strasbourg. As other speakers have highlighted in this afternoon's debate, it seems to our Group that Iraq is the major issue for our budget in 2004. I thank those who have had the courage to speak in favour of our amendment. There are three reasons for this: first, for us, this is a major political signal to the outside world that Europe is prepared to play a significant role in humanitarian and reconstruction efforts in Iraq. Although Iraq is different from Afghanistan, we have given EUR 1 billion to Afghanistan over a five-year period, and, if we take into account the Commission proposal, we have given EUR 200 million to Iraq over an indefinite period. However, I read in  – presumably one of Mr Wynn's favourite newspapers – that the Japanese Government has pledged USD 5 billion over several years for Iraq's reconstruction in contrast to our EUR 200 million. Second, in the light of last week's unanimous vote in the UN and 's revelation that the US has agreed to allow a joint UN Development Programme/World Bank agency to administer the funds, it is now easier for us in Europe to think of allocating more funds for Iraq's reconstruction. It should be recognised, Mr Walter, that certain countries will be less enthusiastic because of their position on the war, but I understand that the page has turned, and that those who are forward-looking in our Parliament – and indeed those who support America in its hour of need – will be supporting the PPE-DE Group's amendment. Lastly, we believe that this particular amendment is not incompatible with financing other areas, and will not affect existing funding – the amendment itself mentions this. Mr Wynn, you commented that the Commission proposal is not based on assessments, it is based on availability. We believe that the monies will be needed for 2004. You also mentioned that this is a first reading. We should actually be able to vote our amendment quite within the bounds of the financial perspective and should our amendment fall, we as a Group will, of course, reserve our right to consider whether the Commission's proposal is the right one. Therefore, in this budget we want to prepare the Union for enlargement, we want to make sure that reforms of the institutions are carried out, but above all we want a Europe which is going to play its role in the world. That is why we ask the House to support our amendment earmarking EUR 500 million for Iraq. –Mr President, as steps are being taken in the Middle East with the road map towards peace, I would like to draw the attention of the House to the welcome steps being made towards the same process in Kashmir and the recent steps taken by the governments of India and Pakistan in this regard. Noting, though, the visit of Richard Armitage, the US Deputy Secretary of State, to that area, I would like to call on you to urge the institutions of the Union to become involved in this process too, just as we are in the Middle East through the quartet - perhaps we can invent something of a similar kind for Kashmir. Above all, the Kashmiri people should be involved in this process. Lastly I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this issue was addressed in the Conference of Presidents a few months ago when, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, it was suggested that an delegation should go to Afghanistan. That suggestion was approved, but no delegation was approved for Kashmir. Could I ask you please to put that back on the agenda of the Conference of Presidents this week, so that we can take a decision and also have an  delegation to Kashmir. – Mr President, this brings us to the conclusion of a momentous two years for the European Union, which began with the 1996 discharge and its refusal. I should like to congratulate Mrs Stauner on the courage which she has shown in getting her report – although not much of it is in its original form – through this Parliament. We need, in this debate, to associate the 1998 discharge with that of the framework agreement which we will be voting on tomorrow. Hopefully we will see signs of a more democratic Europe as a result of these last few months. First, Parliament's role in the discharge has been shown to be one of extreme importance. The Council, by its absence today, shows its lack of interest in the way in which we, as a Parliament, have used our powers to begin the birth of a political Europe. Without the 1996 discharge there would have been no Wise Men's report, no Commission resignation and no real urgency for Commission reform. But not all of us in this House have been heroes. We have found ourselves split between countries, within countries, within delegations, often with strongly held views. It was the Socialist leader, Mrs Green, who took the biscuit by voting for a motion of confidence on a motion of censure, which she did indeed get. Miss Morgan now continues this particular inheritance by asking for a depolitisation of the discharge process. Indeed, one or two of her amendments, like removing paragraphs 47 and 48 of the discharge report today show that some of these amendments look more Commission-born than in Parliament's interests. But where to now? Monitoring is necessary to make sure that what we have gained as a Parliament is maintained. Mr Prodi needs to be supported in his reforms of the Commission. Last but not least, our most important role is to make sure we have greater accountability and more democracy and that it is not the beginning of the end but the end of the beginning for Parliament's rights in the European institutions. – Mr President, as speakers have already said, this has been an historic day for the current process of enlargement. I would like to look beyond Copenhagen to see what is going to happen in the next stage. Some speakers have raised the question of whether Valéry Giscard d'Estaing's comments about Turkey were outdated, whether this was the wrong message at the wrong time and whether, if Turkey should become a member, that would really be the end of Europe as we know it. He is right to raise this issue, because once we say yes definitively to Turkey and give it a date, how can we say no to Ukraine, Belarus and other countries which probably have more of their landmass within Europe than Turkey does? Mr Rasmussen, Mr Watson and Mr Haarder have been very liberal in saying that once the political criteria have been met we can give a date for Turkey. What about the economic criteria in the Copenhagen Declaration of June 1993? Central to that declaration was the question of institutional stability, which we all seem to be forgetting as we go about welcoming countries into the Union. Do we really think that the Union is going to be stable once Turkey, and perhaps other countries, which will then no doubt be welcomed under the same criteria, have joined, and that the Union can then be effectively managed? This question will be examined at the NATO summit on enlargement later this week in Prague. The question which people are now asking is whether NATO is really capable of acting and whether it will be really effective once it has more central and eastern European countries? The same applies to the European Union. The Helsinki Council made Turkey an official candidate country. So did the association agreement of 1961, but will the European Union, with Turkey as a full member, really be fully capable of acting and democratically accountable? My thesis is threefold. Firstly, we should pause once the ten countries have come in and once we are completing the negotiations for Romania and Bulgaria. To set a date now, or even to set a date for a date, is premature. Secondly we must examine every single avenue, such as a special partnership with Turkey, before we commit ourselves to the full process of opening accession negotiations. Perhaps most important of all, the Copenhagen Council should set a process in motion, as Mr Prodi mentioned this morning, to consider our approach to future candidates seeking membership of the Union, so that we know how to deal with them. In conclusion, the European Council, headed by the Danes, is sleepwalking into the future. It is easier for everyone to say yes rather than no, but at this stage it seems that no member of the European Council wishes to say yes to Turkey, but none wishes to say no either. Let us be clear in our thinking and let us have a clear strategy so that we can assure Europe's citizens that in ten years' time they will have a stable, prosperous and effective European Union. – This debate on the van Hulten report brings to a close one of the most traumatic periods for the European institutions since their creation in 1957. The refusal of the European Parliament to grant discharge and the definitive refusal for the 1996 budget; the motion of censure tabled in this House a year ago for differing reasons; and the first report of the Committee of Independent Experts on the reform of the Commission which led to the mass resignation of the Commission itself, are now part of European folklore. Those of us involved in these historic events are well aware that none of the upheaval would have been caused had we not acted with parliamentary power to press for changes in the way in which the Commission operated. Remember that the Council of Ministers, absent again this evening from our debate, approved the 1997 discharge – not the 1996 – on the very day the Commission itself resigned on 15 March. Now we come to the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts which we already had the opportunity to welcome and briefly debate last September. Our greatest concern in the EPP is to ensure that public confidence in the European Commission is restored. Further steps to build a strong Europe will be to no avail if the European peoples perceive that there is no adequate system of democratic accountability for over-zealous officials. Under no circumstances will we concede ground which we have won over the past few months, which we believe to be in the interests of openness and transparency. We are therefore concerned to see the flurry of Commission announcements in recent weeks by Commissioner Kinnock suggesting policy proposals of various kinds to be put in a White Paper shortly. While conveying a desire to proceed rapidly, it also gives the impression that the Commission is in transmission rather than listening mode. Our concern is strengthened if the rumour reported a few days ago is true – namely that the Commission wants to limit severely the access of Parliament to information. This was, after all, one of the causes of the downfall of the last Commission. Have the lessons not been learnt? The knowledge that the framework relations between the European Parliament and the European Commission still remain to be negotiated led to our disagreement with the rapporteur when we debated his report in committee. We could, in no way, agree with his view that it would be demeaning for Parliament to set out detailed instructions as to what we wanted the Commission to take up in its reform package. The less precise, Mr van Hulten, we are in our resolutions, the more room it gives the Commission and your former colleagues in the Council to do what they like. We believe the vast number of recommendations of the Wise Men’s report should be implemented. We have, as the EPP-ED group, submitted all the recommendations of the Wise Men’s report in committee and many of them have now been put into the report, entirely changing the nature of the van Hulten report in committee. We have resubmitted a few amendments which fell in committee, in particular, our desire to see the codes of conduct revised specifically to include the reference to merit and managerial capacity which you, Commissioner, accepted – when we had our hearings last September – should be included in these codes of conduct, particularly when considering appointments and promotion. Looking to the future, we know that we are at the beginning of a long process of continuing reform in the European Commission. We want in particular to see the hard-working and highly competent norm for Commission officials acknowledged in the outside world – a reputation that has been darkened by the inappropriate conduct of a few individuals. Commissioner, you will be aware from your presence in the last Commission why the crisis occurred. In a nutshell: there were programmes being run for which there were insufficient staff resources available. We urge you to take the opportunity to establish the real staffing needs of the Commission based on the essential activities for which it is responsible. Our position was made very clear on this topic in the 2000 budget. We will be vigilant over the next five years to ensure the reforms now being suggested are fully implemented and will support efforts made to modernise institutions. But, equally, we will not hesitate to withdraw our support financially or otherwise should steps be taken which do not correspond to the openness promised by Commission President Romano Prodi prior to his nomination. Let us hope that we can avoid institutional upheavals by having an ongoing dialogue which assumes from the outset that Parliament will be an equal partner in deciding the outcome of Commission reform. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Danish Presidency for the conclusions of the Brussels Summit in preparing the way for these ten countries to begin to assume obligations of membership by the beginning of 2004. But I have questions on budgets, on Cyprus and on further enlargement on which I would like further clarification. Firstly the budgets: we welcome the overall approach agreed between the institutions on budgetary and financial issues but, as a parliament, we would like to be fully informed by the Commission on the stage of negotiations and set up a process of dialogue with the Council so we can come to conclusions at the end of the year. In so doing, firstly, we would like some clarity about potential new obligations on foreign policy which could arise as a result of enlargement. We have asked for a report from the Commission regarding this which we are awaiting. Secondly, agricultural reform: in the House of Commons, upon his return from the European Council, Mr Blair said that he was fully supportive of the first point of the agreement on additional limits on expenditure; he was not in support of the price for it – no CAP reform. That was defeated at the summit. The question to the President of the Commission is whether this reform is still on course and what has now happened to the mid-term review. Looking to the future, I would like to pick up Mr Barón Crespo's point. It is not usual for us to be in agreement, but certainly when it comes to financial perspective of 1999, I was against it for precisely the same reasons that he mentioned – how can you plan so far into the future? And, at least until 2013, the Parliament itself must be involved in the negotiation of this financial perspective once the negotiations are under way. In terms of Cyprus, I would like a clear statement that neither the Commission nor the Council intends to set a date for the opening of negotiations. We must have the full and fair implementation of the Copenhagen criteria in political and economic matters. Perhaps, above all, it is a decision for the Member States and not for other countries to take a decision as to when a date should be set for Turkey to start negotiations. Lastly, on the point raised by Mr Swoboda, it is critically important that we set out a strategy for a 'new neighbours' initiative and that Copenhagen should provide a mechanism whereby we can really come to terms with those countries which could be potential candidates. We need a strategy on how to handle the demands which we will face in the months and years ahead. It is not sufficient that we should simply say everybody is welcome, because I believe there is a limit to the matters of EU enlargement and this should be thought about now. – Mr President, I wanted to identify the website that I had visited this morning just before this debate. I can assure the President-in-Office of the Council that the name of the representative of the European Parliament on 7 March is not mentioned in the English version. I would be grateful therefore if you could align that with the Swedish version which is presumably up-to-date as you told us this morning. – Madam President, although some people are pleased at the decision that has been taken, this creates a very dangerous precedent. Whenever, in future, there is an explanatory statement which some in the House do not like we have established that every time we will be able to vote against if we wish to do so. – Mr President, the previous speaker mentioned Senator Jesse James. My recollection is that he was a gunfighter. We are actually referring to Senator Jesse Helms who normally shoots from the hip, but not with a gun. I should like to make three points in this debate. Firstly, we all agree about stressing the dangers of nuclear proliferation. The Commission was right in its statement to highlight the need for a lead from the United States in dealing with countries like Russia, China, Pakistan and India, who are waiting for this lead. They do not have it now. We will have to try to do what we can to make sure the Senate recognises where reality is. Therefore we are right today to strongly criticise the action which the US Senate has taken on the comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. Secondly, it is interesting that in the previous debate we had on this issue of globalisation we recognised, whether we liked it or not, that economic forces were global, new technologies were global. And yet here we have a US Senate, a legislature, which wishes to resist the global environment in which it lives. Perhaps it is because they have fears of difficulties in verification and that the ban could allow countries such as North Korea and Iraq to conduct low-level tests, or perhaps they fear that by permanently halting testing the US could suffer a deterioration of its nuclear stock-pile and deterrent. The Commissioner says there was an article in the  from Sandy Berger, but was that the real answer to the question of why Republicans in the Senate voted to condemn the Treaty this time round? There is a second article in the  today on exactly the same page where Mr Crystal, who is editor of the , says: “Republicans will argue that American security cannot be safeguarded by international conventions. Instead they will ask Americans to face this increasingly dangerous world without illusions. They will argue that American dominance can be sustained for many decades to come, not by arms control agreements but by augmenting America’s power and therefore its ability to lead.” I contend that we will have, as other speakers have said, the absolute right and need to argue with our Congressional colleagues, particularly those in the Senate. As a member of the Delegation for relations with the United States, I will be doing precisely that as soon as possible. – Mr President, I speak for the European People's Party and European Democrats. I would like, in introducing our group's position on this, to welcome the work done by Mrs Haug and by our own rapporteur, Mr Ferber, to thank the Commissioner, Mrs Schreyer, and also the Council President, Mrs Parly, for their significant assistance in achieving a budget on 23 November which, as the presidency has rightly pointed out, was a landmark in the way in which Parliament, the Council and the Commission have been able to help decide collectively a budget for the European Union. We have a budget which is under 1.06%, we have a budget, Mr Colom, which is within the financial perspective. I suspect that, to put it simply, flexibility is for small amounts and revision is for large amounts, but we will see in the next few years how that will go. But I would like to thank both the Commission and the Presidency-in-Office of the Council for their remarks about the joint declaration which we have put together, because that is also a first indication of how we are going to monitor improvements and performance in the running of the programmes, particularly in category 4. Turning to that for a moment, we have a lot of work in front of us and we await with interest the report by Mrs Schreyer, preferably before 30 June, so that we can use its contents for shaping up the 2002 budget. But in thinking about the question of the backlog on commitments and how we limit the duration of new commitments – obviously this comes into the domain of the financial regulation which we will have to negotiate. We believe it is absolutely fundamental that this progress report should be seen to restore the confidence of our citizens in the way in which the European Union institutions operate. A word on the reserve, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. You said, if I understood you correctly, that we should not be using the reserve because it was against the rules to do this. We use the reserve, particularly on first reading, to draw attention to particular points of weakness in the way in which policies are operating. The information policy in the institutions at the moment is a scandal and therefore, rather than putting money on the line for information policy when we know it is not being used effectively, we are going to be keeping much of that money in reserve waiting for the Commission to come up with the right proposals. Of course, the solution would be to allow us, as a joint budgetary authority, to lift funds being spent during the year and that may be an invention which we can insert into the revision of the financial regulation. Lastly, I would say, looking to the future, that Nice has shown us that there is perhaps a feeling that we are shifting a little bit towards intergovernmentalism, with the Council deciding on the numbers of our Parliament without our being consulted beforehand. Our confidence as one of three institutions, will only be maintained – and therefore the institutional agreement and the financial perspective maintained – if we manage to create mutual confidence and if we are consulted at every stage on our fundamental interests. – Mr President, it is clear that in our European Union today changes are underway, particularly in the Commission, as a result of the refusal to give discharge for the 1996 budget and then the consequent and ultimate mass resignation of the Commission. Everything in that particular story showed where codes of conduct had begun to be discussed and debated. Indeed the acting President, Mr Santer, had put out a Code of Conduct for Commissioners and officials but it seemed it did not go far enough. Everything in the story was too little, too late. From the comments of Commissioner Kinnock, the Commission might examine this tomorrow or next week. It is always in the same kind of vein. This applies also to the question of a Code of Conduct for high level officials because in the Commission over the last few years there has indeed been lax management in internal organisation as was underlined by the Wise Men's report. This is why we were calling earlier today for the second part of that report to be available to us so we have as much information available to us when we come to the hearings in early September for the incoming Commission. One simple example which I can give the House of the internal games which were played by the heads of cabinets – not the Commissioners – on one particular staffing matter goes to show how these things were handled. ESPRIT, an important information technology programme designated under Mr Bangemann at the beginning of the Commission as it was in early 1995, was transferred from originally DG XIII which was under Mrs Cresson to Mr Bangemann. Lo and behold, in 1998, this was then shifted back to Mrs Cresson without any formal Commission decision – it was just decided as a game between the cabinets. How much time, energy and problems were caused for staff in the running of a programme simply because the Commissioners did a deal between themselves which was not transparent, not effective and certainly unaccountable to us here in the European Parliament. I come to this particular case of Mr Bangemann. It is to us extraordinary insensitivity at this particular time, in this current climate, when you have an acting Commission, that someone can, in that particular state of office simply say two days later he wants to go and work for a private company which is one of the major operators in the field for which he is responsible in telecommunications. It could be argued that Mr Bangemann is not doing anything strictly wrong because there was not an enforceable Code of Conduct. But the Statute is very generous to Commissioners. Is not 80 % of salary for five years enough to satisfy someone's need for financial back-up and to make sure that they do not need the extra finance which a company like is giving? We unanimously support in our group the Council's decision for this case to go to the Court of Justice. We are particularly hopeful that they will look at the suspension of pension rights for the Commissioner in this instance, particularly while he is engaged in a private company. What it leaves for us is a reflection of the disregard of certain members of the outgoing Commission for the need to have a rigorous approach to high standards in public life. We therefore welcome the statement by the incoming President, Mr Prodi, that there will now be codes of conduct applied rigorously, but we have heard this before. This is what worries us. We want to be able to see these codes of conduct effectively applied so as to make sure not only that the people at the top accept political responsibility, but also that we have high quality management right the way down so that people can be appointed for what they know rather than who they know. – Mr President, I, along with my Socialist colleagues very much welcome this report which underlines the work that we have done in the Budgetary Control Committee and really is built upon that. There are several very radical recommendations, not least the one that establishes the post of the European public prosecutor. Time and again many Eurosceptics have used fraud within the European Union institutions as a battering ram to beat us with. Of course any degree of maladministration and fraud must be weeded out. But this makes clear that 80% of the problem lies within the Member States themselves. The recommendation to establish a European public prosecutor, as proposed, would mean that there would be a mechanism to present criminal cases relating to EU fraud throughout the Union but it would not impinge on the jurisdiction of national courts. That is the way it has been written. It is sensitive to Member States’ worries. A series of shortcomings within the institutions have been identified in this report and recommendations are made here for correcting the problems. We look forward to developing the action programme for reform with the Commissioner responsible and although we have not had time to look at it in detail, I believe it would be fair to ask the Commissioner for a clear discussion and justification on why steps are not taken if some recommendations are left out. I am sure we will not agree with every single detail in this report but that would be a useful exercise nevertheless. The whole question of outside bodies doing work for the Commission is an area that needs clear attention. Whose responsibilities are the bureaus for technical assistance? Can we tighten-up the contracts granted to these bodies? How can we simplify procedures and make staff within the Commission more knowledgeable about tendering processes? The proposals outlined by Commissioner Kinnock in his hearing, in particular in the field of training, need more detailed response. We look forward to hearing more of his ideas over the next few months. I hope people will take time to read the report which clearly distinguishes between fraud and irregularity. The report states that of all the thousands of transactions which take place within the European Union institutions there are only 30 investigations involving Commission officials in fraud. Of course that is 30 too many, but the main cause of concern are the many examples of irregularities. This is an administrative problem, not a criminal issue. But measures are needed to tighten up the slack administrative practices, to rewrite poor regulations, to cut down complicated payment mechanisms, dispense with excessive exceptions and derogations which lead to the far too many irregularities and errors. It is these irregularities that give rise to alarmist headlines when we are presented with the Court of Auditors’ report on an annual basis. The report also correctly referred to the regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the European Community and points out that only three Member States have ratified the regulation. I am sure this report will give food for thought to those Member States that have not signed. It will be interesting to note how they respond in particular to the recommendation on the creation in each Member State of a national prosecution office for European offences. It is indeed appropriate that this report is published this week when we are about to decide on the fate of a new Commission. It is interesting in particular, in the light of recent events, that the Committee of Experts recommends that legal powers are given to allow the Commission President to sack individual Commissioners. This week we also received from the Commission a request on the supplementary and amending budget for money to establish the staff necessary to operate the new fraud office, OLAF. We would also concur with the report that specialised expertise is needed for these posts, and the need to make more effective use of information technology in intelligence gathering. The report itself should also be a lesson to us all within the European Union institutions. It has been clearly written, is really easily accessible and avoids jargon wherever possible. It is really a model on how to write European legislation. Having said that we welcome the move from ex ante to ongoing ex post control in the budget control mechanisms within the Commission. We would like to see that implemented. Again, we will have further discussions on that in the committee. We are at the dawn of a new era within the European Union institutions. We look forward to a time when officials are promoted on merit. We look forward to recruitment of people with appropriate expertise in specific sectors. We look forward to the commitments already made on whistle-blowers being implemented. But most of all we look forward to a time when every official and Member State Government responds to a new culture of responsibility. The next few months and years will be critical. But let us not forget that we have a base on which to build. The report is clear in its praise of the commitment and experience of most officials. From this week on a new chapter is being written. The plot is outlined in this report. It will be written by the Commission but Parliament will insist on strong editorial control. In partnership we can rebuild confidence in the institutions, not only for the people who work within them but most of all, for the people they serve. Mr President, both my Group and I appreciate that when we are seeking parliamentary time it is advisable to be brief. That being so, we recognise the Conference of Presidents' decision last week to refuse to have a separate debate. We would therefore like to propose that this oral question be attached to the overall debate on the legislative and work programme for 2004, because over the weekend we heard that President Prodi will be raising the question of OLAF during that debate and we have a number of questions we would like to ask in that context, which are included in the substance of this oral question. That is a reasonable way for the House to proceed. It is what happens in normal practice. We will not be asking for a separate debate, but we have questions we wish to raise when Mr Prodi is with us on Tuesday. . – Mr President, I rise to introduce my report on transatlantic relations. It is a timely debate with the rapidly changing transatlantic relationship today. As many will know, I have always been a strong supporter of closer transatlantic relations. It is logical, in an area of globalisation, for Europe and America to think of a strengthened transatlantic partnership based on shared values and common interests. But logic is not necessarily sufficient. There are real grounds for concern, the traditional transatlantic ties are now weakening, without new bridges being built; increasing numbers feel that NATO may not exist in five years' time; and certainly the NATO-Russia Council, as we see published today, is fundamentally changing our whole security relationship. I would like to examine why this is happening, what the concerns are and what we should do about it. NATO inevitably is changing, no longer is it a defensive organisation against a country which no longer exists. It is becoming more political, more international. After 11 September quite clearly one partner, America, feels that it is a nation under attack. We in Europe do not have that feeling. It gives a much clearer focus on what should be done in military matters. Finally, America perhaps is a country which is certainly not used to, and may not wish to, share sovereignty and multinational institutions, as we have become more used to in Europe. It therefore sees things in a very different light when participating in international institutions, even if it is aware that for market access global rules of governance are needed. What then are the concerns? My report is very clear on this. A number of different concerns have been raised by colleagues, of a political nature: the lack of US participation in the Kyoto Protocol, the biodiversity convention, the Ottawa Convention on land mines and, recently, the refusal to sign the treaty establishing the International Criminal Court. Secondly, economic concerns. We have seen two recent instances of American action on steel and now American action to increase agricultural subsidies. In many ways, these show that they are living in a world of their own, detached from reality outside. Finally on foreign policy, where the US seems to wish to continue its ideas for action against Iraq, this is seen by many as not perhaps the best way to deal with that problem. What then should we do? The report I am submitting to the House, together with my colleague, Mrs Mann, shows that we have many good ideas, but we have perhaps not paid sufficient attention to what we should be doing. The key element of the report is that we need to continue to update NATO, update the new transatlantic agenda to develop a sustained and strengthened transatlantic partnership based on a new confidence pact and concept of mutual recognition in which our respective roles can be clearly defined. There are a lot of examples, but I will give a few here to the House. NATO remains not only the fundamental guarantee of Euro-Atlantic stability and security, it is the essential framework for coalition operations. NATO needs to respond to new global challenges, realising the form of political and military structures is shifting from collective defence to collective security. It is essential for adequate defence budgets to be combined with courageous steps towards coordination and greater rationalisation of defence procurement. Modernisation instead of marginalisation of partnership requires the US to open its defence markets and us, in Europe, to coordinate where possible. We need to develop a common and comprehensive definition and concept of security and risks to security. We also need to understand that NATO and the EU need to work closer together, by bringing together the non-military tools at the EU's disposal, combined with the decisive military capabilities available to NATO. We need a reinforced political dialogue. My colleague Mrs Mann will deal with the economic aspects, on which there are several excellent proposals. We need to engage the US in constructive multilateral dialogue and to strengthen parliamentary involvement in this whole dialogue. What does this mean? We have made one or two small steps at the EU-US summit on this positive agenda, but there is one major element missing and that is the strategic view of the long-term destination of this transatlantic partnership on which we have no real ideas. We in this House have always supported a longer-term, deeper transatlantic partnership, that is why we are calling on the Commission to produce a report. Its own communication is lacking in strategic thinking, and we need to make great progress on that issue. – Mr President, like others who have already participated in this debate I should like to congratulate the rapporteurs, but in particular Mr Bourlanges. In his opening remarks, he clarified for us the perspective for the 2000 budget in putting forward the idea that we have to have more programmes, we have to have more countries and we have to have less money. There seems to be a contradiction here which, in the longer term when we come to enlargement, when we come to a new intergovernmental conference, we are quite clearly going to have to resolve in the context of our budget procedures. For my part, I would like to focus my remarks on three aspects which concern the running of European policies and the attitudes which we have taken in Parliament in previous years to these aspects. This is in the particular context of the Commission. We, as a parliament, want to make sure that accountability is seen to work for those who elected us and to make sure that we have value for money in the running of the programmes. The first item in internal policy refers to information policy. In the last Parliament we wanted to make sure that we had proper functioning interinstitutional cooperation. We made progress in that respect by making sure that in terms of the general information lines, in terms of the specific campaigns, we had good cooperation on both sides. But we did not arrive at a common framework for this interinstitutional cooperation as we in Parliament had wanted. There is some degree of concern at some of the initial moves the Commission is now making in its information structures which we in Parliament will keep a close eye on. In particular, we had asked in the last Parliament, and indeed in previous Parliaments, for the Commission and Parliament offices to work closely together in the Member States. I have put down an amendment, our group has put down an amendment, to make sure that we can have a report from the Commission on how far this has gone. There are still one or two countries where the Commission and Parliament are separate in terms of structure and we need to be particularly vigilant in instances where more than 75 or 80% of the appropriations go into paying for salaries and buildings rather than adequate information policies. Secondly, in terms of external policy, particularly in terms of Kosovo, the hearing we organised a few days ago with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgets, was very revealing to me, in particular the fact that this is not a short-term commitment. We had evidence from Mr Bildt, Mr Kouchner, Mr Hombach and then from all the other agencies, that this is a long-term problem we have in front of us. We must, therefore, make sure not only that we get proper coherence between the agencies working on the ground but also Madam President-of-the Council, that we do not take decisions which mean that we are spending money futilely because of a Council decision that we must have some people removed some 100 miles away in another place. We must make sure that when we come to Mrs Pack’s report later this week we take the right decisions and that the Council understands Parliament’s feelings on that. In the longer term, we must ensure that we have vision and – as you said Commissioner – we need to have the idea of building civil society in the longer term, not just as some kind of short-term project. Kosovo and stability in the Balkans must be a long-term project. It is us, as Europeans, who have to take that responsibility. We cannot expect others to take on that particular responsibility for us. I therefore welcome the idea of a working committee between the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgets. We must make sure not only that funds are properly spent but that the ideas which are coming through are properly coordinated. Lastly, in terms of administration policy, there are the Technical Assistance Offices. I would underline what Mr Böge said to the Council. The Council has been absent from this debate on discharge. With nonchalant ease, they have gone through approving the 1996, the 1997 discharge, and it has been up to us in Parliament to press for change at every turn. Therefore in terms of EU reform we are right, as a parliament, to say that we do not wish to see new posts until we know where the posts are going. What are the real needs of the Commission? Secondly, we are right to say that we should not have Technical Assistance Offices performing tasks through temporary officials in what are meant to be permanent posts for the Commission. We must find some way of having a dialogue between the institutions over the next 12 months to make sure that these reforms take place and that we have the right kind of criteria for making sure that we are getting value for money from the staff. Otherwise – and I will end on this proposal: we must start cutting programmes if we do not have the proper staff resources available to run them, because ultimately we must make sure that these processes are accountable and we must make sure that we get value for money in the system. . –Speaking on behalf of Conservatives in the European Parliament, we underline our commitment to the protection of the European Communities’ financial interests. We would like to see the convention and the two protocols on this issue signed by all Member States as soon as possible. We believe that there should be close cooperation between Member States to ensure that this objective is achieved. But we do not support the concept of a uniform framework of criminal law to protect EU financial interests or the setting up of a European Public Prosecutor’s Office. We have therefore today voted against the report by Mrs Theato. – Madam President, this morning the Commission President, Mr Prodi, has set out ambitious goals for the European Union for the next five years, laudable aims indeed, to make a strong and effective European presence felt in the world: succeeding with enlargement, meeting the challenge of selling e-Europe, introducing better principles of governance. We accept that Europeans, particularly the younger generation, need to be given a broad perspective of where Europe will be in the years ahead. But how are we to succeed when the resources available are limited and the credibility of our institutions is not very high? We need to match this vision with reality. Here there are three elements I would like to contribute. Firstly, we need a successful European economy. We must ensure that unemployment rates continue to go down across Europe, confirm the trend in privatisation and deregulation, encourage the insertion of information technology and knowledge of the Internet, show that e-Europe is a good initiative. But we must avoid lurching back into the old-style regulation, stifling individual initiative and enterprise. We must not fear globalisation, but we must also make sure that we understand its political impact in the network society. Without a successful European economy we cannot meet the challenges ahead, particularly of enlargement. Secondly, we need to ensure that we legislate only when necessary – subsidiarity. Doing less but better – a central plank of the last Commission – needs to be the aim of this Commission too. We will be looking at this closely when we come to the annual programmes of proposed legislation. Mr Bonde was right to say that there is this image of doing less better and then suddenly we see an annual programme for the year 2000 of 500 proposals and recommendations, which seems to go in a different direction. We must establish priorities and make sure there is value for money in each of these programmes. Lastly, we need to ensure that there is proper, genuine reform of the European Commission. Yes, the Commission – guardian of the Treaties – is meant to be an independent body, but it also has to be accountable to European citizens through our Parliament. The information problem, which Mr Bonde just referred to, is treated like a straw in the wind, with the Commission seeming to restrict information to us, as citizens and as parliamentarians, although we have the right to it under the Treaties. The Commission is not in fact today a European government. The Commission does not reflect the majority in this particular Parliament. We in Parliament have a major role to play in the shaping of governance in Europe. This governance therefore needs to be a sensitive governance so that we can actually work together and understand that each of the institutions in the European Union, has its relevant role to play. Therefore we need to have credibility, coherence and confidence that in working together we can restore the image of the European Union to our citizens. – Mr President, it is always helpful to have a debate before our first reading of the budget with the Council later this month, but the resolutions in front of us from Mr Podestà and Mr Färm highlight a substantive contradiction, at least for me and for my group. Firstly, on the one hand we have under-utilisation of funds, where clearly, with the balance recovered by Member States now amounting to EUR 15 billion for the 2001 financial year, as Mr Färm points out, there is a significant financial and political problem, especially as regards insufficient payments in the Structural Funds. However, as Mr Virrankoski said, there has of course been poor implementation of payment appropriations amounting to EUR 82 billion. Is this because of the matters Mrs Buitenweg raised about Member States not wanting to use these funds? Is it poor procedures? Is it simply rigidity? It could also be related to co-financing, where the monies are not available in the Member States, in which case we need to take some care about the next steps for agricultural policy, because we could find ourselves in some difficulty if we rely on Member States to implement programmes. Secondly, there is a contradiction between external policy and administrative policy. We are actually looking for funds to implement programmes decided by the Council or by our institution in the budgetary procedure. We know that Parliament has not actually approved the Afghanistan funding of EUR 1 billion and yet we see the Commission and the Council gaily going ahead, assuming that this will be the case. Therefore, in the light of these two very contradictory approaches, it seems to me and to my group very logical that we should ask the Commission for more flexibility in the way in which finance can be transferred from one part of the budget to the other, because on one side we have too little and on the other we have too much. Yet, we find the Socialist Group wants to delete paragraph 12. Their speaker should justify why they oppose such a logical approach. Mr President, yesterday I had the great honour of sharing a platform with the President of Parliament, Mr Cox, when we both addressed the CBI national conference in the United Kingdom. Mr Cox referred to the real concerns that exist in the UK, by saying that Parliament, the Commission and the Council are now committed to the concepts of developing subsidiarity and no disproportionate regulation. If that were so, we would have to look at these proposals within that context. Nobody challenges the need for better identification, but the truth of the matter is that the UK Government itself has calculated that the cost of introducing this system in the UK will be just short of GBP 100 million, a cost of between GBP 13 000 and GBP 16 000 per farmer. We heard from Commissioner Byrne that the EU has made its own estimate. I have more faith in the calculation of the UK Government than I have in the calculation of the EU authorities. The fact of the matter is that the committee has been unanimous in its view. The speeches that we will hear this evening will be unanimous in their view. They will be in favour of better identification but also of proceeding by way of practicality, flexibility, looking at operating different methods within Member States, and of having identification – certainly within the United Kingdom – on the basis of batch control numbers. I say to the Commissioner that there is unanimity across this Parliament, from Mr Wyn, my political opponent in Wales, to Mrs Attwooll, who is from another party in the United Kingdom and Mr Adam, from the Labour Party. We are all unanimous in this view. It is a view that the Commission should take on board. So far, I have not been terribly encouraged by the stance adopted by the Commission. Mr Adam has done a great deal to achieve unanimity, and I congratulate him on that, as other speakers have done. We have the facility of trying to persuade Mr Adam, if there is no movement on the part of the Commission, to consider having this report referred back to committee. I hope the Commissioner will be in a position to respond positively to the amendments that have been proposed by the committee. However, if the Commission simply closes the door on us, then I for one will be among those who seek to persuade Mr Adam tomorrow to ask for this report to be referred back to committee so that we can stress to the Commission that it must be a listening Commission – not just when people appear before the CBI in the United Kingdom but also with regard to the daily work we do at Parliament. – Mr President, on a point of order, I should like, through you, to thank President Cox for his visit to the UK today. In that context, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, may I say that a number of my British colleagues wish to participate at least in some way in the occasion of the state funeral of the Queen Mother tomorrow. That is to take place at 12.30 p.m. I have raised the matter in my group, which supports my request, that the vote tomorrow might be brought forward to 11.30 a.m. so that all British Members who wish to can at least watch the state funeral at 12.30 p.m. Mr President, firstly, has the IGC been a failure? Surely it is just a reflection of current opinion at government level about the structure and implementation of a new EU Constitution. The lack of unanimity reflects divisions that are real within Member States, divisions which are too readily dismissed and which perhaps have been too readily dismissed in this particular debate. To me the question is where we go from here. Is it an issue on which we have a realistic prospect of seeing progress during the course of the Irish presidency? Sweden said at the end of the IGC that it is a matter that could probably not come back before the Council until 2005, and others have talked about it not coming back for at least two years. I say to the President-in-Office that he should dismiss much of what he has heard in the more recent speeches, not least from Mr Watson, the leader of the Liberal Group. Mr Watson was up to his sanctimonious best during the course of what I regarded as a number of cheap shots against the President-in-Office of the Council. The President-in-Office might like to know that when he was endeavouring to reach agreement in the IGC on Friday, Mr Watson had his name on the front page of the Murdoch press arguing in the United Kingdom for a referendum on the outcome of these constitutional talks. That was just a day after all his members had voted against a referendum here in this House. That inconsistency is something that we have come to recognise from Mr Watson.  It is worth reflecting that the President of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Robin Cook, the former Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom, has recognised what he believes the route forward should be. He said that perhaps we in Europe need to move away from this introspective constitutional debate, as it has taken up too much time and energy; and that what we need to focus on are the issues that matter to our European citizens, such as jobs and growth, the environment, human rights and quality of life. He says that we need to get closer to the citizens we were elected to serve. These are remarks he made on the BBC broadcasting in the United Kingdom. They may not be said when he comes to speak to Mr Barón Crespo's group here. However, I welcome the fact that Mr Cook has endorsed the approach I have adopted in almost every debate we have held in relation to this constitutional issue. There is much that is contained within the draft Constitution with which I take issue. This is not the occasion to revisit that area. But all of us should be committed to the prospect of getting back in touch with what matters to our constituents; and I would just remind everyone that we face them in June of next year. – Mr President, on a point of order, in relation to the point that has just been made I would like to thank President Cox on behalf of my group. As soon as that suspension took place, he wrote on behalf of Parliament, having received representations in relation to this issue from the leaders of the three largest groups from the UK. The work that is now being undertaken by the Strasbourg authorities, and also by the French authorities, has been prompted by the very swift action taken by the President. My point, however, is that we are meeting on a day when there is a national air strike in France. I look around the Chamber and see that many Members are absent. Our democratic legitimacy, in terms of the votes that we take on important issues, is bound to be diminished if Members are prevented from participating in the democratic process because of action of that sort. I ask you, therefore, to convey to the President a request from the House that an analysis be undertaken of attendance here in part-sessions, on the occasions when, with alarmingly increased frequency, industrial action has been taken, which has made our job as representatives of the people of Europe infinitely more difficult. – Mr President, in the light of the UN inspectors' report to the UN Security Council on Monday, and ten years of Iraq's deception, evasion and non-compliance with Security Council resolutions, it should be clear to everybody here that we are facing a very grave situation in the Gulf. The starting point in this whole debate must be that we are representatives of democratic nations. Saddam Hussein is a dictator who has no respect for democracy, for the rule of law or for the demands of the United Nations itself. As democrats we have a responsibility to explain fully the reasons why it may be necessary to take action in order to uphold the will of the international community, which is that Saddam Hussein should unconditionally disarm. This issue is not simply about the work of UN inspectors; rather, it is about disarming Saddam Hussein of his weapons of mass destruction. These weapons were there when the inspectors had to leave in 1999 – where are they now? There has to date been no evidence of disarmament; and let us never forget: the burden of proof here must be with Saddam. In my view, the British Prime Minister has a special responsibility to explain clearly the reasons why we must confront the threat from Iraq's weapons of mass destruction. Sadly I must say that, to date, his own government has not been as united and clear on this issue as I feel we in the United Kingdom are entitled to expect. We are disappointed at Mr Blair's inability to sufficiently persuade public opinion in the United Kingdom of the need to be prepared to take action, in the face of what is very clearly a real threat to the security of our people. In the United Kingdom we have seen during the course of the last fortnight or so very clear instances of the existence of that real threat. A collective failure to confront the gravity of the situation with unity and with determination only gives Saddam Hussein succour; not to be prepared to take action – if he continues to obstruct and to lie – would be an open invitation to any rogue state to do anything it likes and still not face serious consequences. It would also leave the United States itself, and the United Nations particularly, weak and impotent. Clearly, should the situation not improve in the weeks ahead, a second UN resolution may be required. That is, however, the optimum option ahead of any military engagement in the Gulf. Having listened to General Morillon, I take the view that the international Community still has the right to act without any such new resolution, as the powers are already vested in earlier UN resolutions. The position of the French and German Governments in recent days, as well as many of the contributions and demonstrations that have been made in this Chamber this afternoon, clearly show that any prospect of a common foreign and security policy is fallacious. I do not make any partisan political point on this, but we are surely fooling ourselves as European Parliamentarians if we believe that we are anywhere near developing a common foreign and security policy or anything like it – we clearly are not. In the days and weeks ahead, we need steady nerves and an effective United Nations. We must ensure Saddam Hussein understands that his failure to comply with the will of the international community will result in serious consequences. Equally, we must also ensure that public opinion in the West and elsewhere understands and appreciates why we must be prepared to take action in defence of the international interest. Political leaders must have the courage to face up to such threats; otherwise the credibility of the United Nations itself will be at stake and Saddam Hussein will have prevailed. If the western nations had sent a stronger and more unified message to Saddam Hussein from the start and maintained their resolve, then perhaps we would not have to be contemplating military intervention today. Mr President, in ten days' time yet another Intergovernmental Conference will get under way. The European Union seems to be in a state of permanent IGC. Over the last 16 years we have had the Single European Act, the Maastricht Treaty, the Amsterdam Treaty and, more recently, the Nice Treaty. In each case there has been an inevitable process of one-way integration, a sense that the European Union can only be successful if it acquires more and more power. And yet the peoples of Europe meanwhile have been increasingly registering their disillusionment with the European political process, through record low turnouts in European elections. There is a dilemma here for us and cause for concern. This IGC is leading to something quite different from past treaties. It will seek for the first time to create a constitution for the European Union. The draft constitutional Treaty increases the centralising and integrating agenda which has been the hallmark of European development in recent years. We should be going back to first principles. At Laeken, the Heads of State and Government called for better and clearer definitions of the EU's competences, simplification of legal instruments, greater democracy, greater transparency and efficiency and for European institutions to be brought closer to the citizens. It is all a far cry from what the Convention has proposed; and now we are being asked to ensure that the IGC does not undermine the Convention in any way. It is back to that same old message: Europe must deepen its integration or risk going backwards. It is time for a reality check and perhaps Sweden warned us of that. The European Union is in real danger of moving way ahead of what the people of Europe want. For those like me and my party, who believe in membership of the European Union and in a Europe of nation states cooperating closely together, this rush to integration that is represented in the Convention paper risks a backlash from the electorate. I fear that Europe could be facing a crisis of legitimacy. First we were told by the British Government that there was no need for a constitution. Now in Britain we are told such a constitution is essential. Next we are told that the IGC was a mere tidying-up exercise. Then Mr Blair in the UK started signalling furiously that there were redline issues for him in the IGC – on tax, on defence and social security. But according to reports published over the weekend he has sold out on these as well. My party has a simple and democratic answer to the twisting and tortured approach of the Prime Minister and his government to the IGC, and that is to give the British people a referendum. Let them decide whether this further leap forward towards a federal Europe is in fact what they want. If a referendum is good enough for the peoples of Ireland, Spain and other nations, then I believe it is good enough for the people of the United Kingdom and polls indicate that 80% of people in the UK want it. The IGC will debate a fundamental shift in the power balance between nation states and the institutions of the European Union. I fear that railroading through a constitutional change of such magnitude at such a late stage in the enlargement process could lead to further disaffection and disillusionment amongst the people of the accession states and of the current 15. Finally, we in this Parliament have a duty to represent the interests of our electors. By supporting the motion for a resolution in its unamended form we send a signal that the political élite knows what is best for our electors. That is a dangerous message in election year. – Mr President, I want to associate myself this morning with those people who have spoken in this debate and expressed some desire to challenge an atmosphere of complacency about the current state of the European economy. I share the view expressed earlier by Mrs McNally that you can look to the United States and see that there has been investment in research. That is one of the reasons why the United States is doing better than Europe. But we must also emphasise that one of the other reasons why the United States continues to do so much better than Europe is because Europe has not yet properly addressed the issue of structural reform and market liberalisation. I refer to the remarks made earlier by Mr Lipietz for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. I am very pleased to engage in a debate with him over the next four years on this issue of market liberalisation. The fact is that we have not yet seen the agreed market liberalisation within Europe applied in some Member States, not least his own. I have a shared concern about the jobs of workers. I would be very pleased to bring Mr Lipietz to speak to workers in the United Kingdom who may lose their jobs as a result of decisions made by a French owner of energy companies in the UK, when British companies are not allowed to gain access to the French market because the French have not applied agreed European policy. That is a structural reform we must drive through. It is not just in that area. We see that the wealthiest states within the European Union continue to be the states that apply the strongest amount of state aid. That is robbing the jobs of some of the poorer states who are represented here. That is also one of the reasons why I do not share the view expressed by Mr von Wogau in relation to competition policy. My concern, where decentralisation is concerned, is that there should not be a repatriation of competition policy. – Mr President, this is a very special day for me in the European Parliament. I have heard speeches from Mr Cohn-Bendit and Mr Le Pen which I consider to be indistinguishable.  Since we last debated the Iraq crisis the stakes have increased. The clear issue remains that Saddam is still playing for time. The United Nations call for disarmament, as set out very clearly and unanimously by Resolution 1441, today continues to be unfulfilled. That is the truth of the situation we face. We recognise that this situation is dangerous and volatile, but let us be clear that it remains dangerous and volatile thanks to the continuing evasion of the Iraqi regime and, sadly, also the gamesmanship of some European governments. These governments appear to have lost sight of the fundamental issue that is at stake here, which is the very real threat that the regime in Baghdad poses to the peace and security of the Middle East and indeed to the wider world. Even at this late stage let us not forget that Saddam refuses to explain what has happened to the stockpile of chemical weapons, biological weapons and nerve agents that were detected by the UN inspectors in 1998. Unless the democracies of the world are prepared to speak out with a united voice on the need for immediate and unconditional disarmament, there is no doubt that Saddam Hussein will continue on his current road of playing cat and mouse with the United Nations on an indefinite basis. I must say that the events of recent months have also demonstrated two important truths for us here in the European Parliament and for Europe more generally. Firstly, we undermine the unity of NATO at our peril. Some anti-American voices in Europe have been playing out their contempt for all things American, and we may hear more of that in this debate. We have also seen some politicians in Europe who are prepared to weaken NATO and the transatlantic alliance in their aim of developing Europe as some sort of antagonist or counter-weight, rather than as an ally of the United States. Let me make it clear beyond any doubt, on behalf of the British Conservatives, that we stand resolutely behind NATO as the bedrock of our security and defence. I make no apology for repeating our belief in NATO and the value that we attach to our partnership with the United States. I believe that the actions of France, Germany and Belgium in fomenting division within the Alliance over the crucial issue of Turkey's security are nothing short of deplorable. The coming days will be a test of the will of the international community and of the credibility of the United Nations. But let there be no doubt about this: the responsibility for avoiding war remains squarely with Saddam Hussein and it is up to him to choose peace. – Mr President, there is unanimity in the House about the importance of this reform, about how simplification is a good thing and how vitally important the sheep industry is. In all those things Mr Adam has done a good job. But I have to take issue with him in one contentious area which is: what is to be the level of support for sheep farmers? I am deeply disappointed that the socialists, the liberals and the nationalists are telling the House that they all intend to vote to cut the recommendation of the Committee on Agriculture by EUR 5 at least in relation to each animal. They put that forward on the basis of the budget, but in the part of the UK that I represent, Wales – just like Mr Wyn who is sadly no longer in his place – we have seen a huge amount of stock slaughtered because of the foot-and-mouth epidemic. We see a crippled industry. We see a situation in which there is no confidence at all in the farming industry today and, as has rightly been said, if you look to an area like Wales, it is no good talking about diversification. It is no good talking about putting money into Community schemes and improving public transport in rural areas. We must ensure greater financial support for sheep farmers who have no economic alternative. Today there are sheep farmers in my constituency who are raising questions about whether they should even restock after foot-and-mouth. I say to Mr Adam this his government is not helping them by indicating that the compensation scheme that was previously in place is one that they do not intend to continue with, whilst, at the same time, not saying what they intend to put in its place. That adds to the existing desperation in the countryside. So, yet again, we hear warm words about the industry, but farmers want deeds, and this means supporting the recommendation made by the agricultural industry for the maximum amount of support for our hard-pressed sheep farmers. – Mr President, can I begin by thanking my colleague from Wales – though from another party, Jillian Evans, for raising this issue. I do not think that there is a more important issue in Wales at the moment than the application of Objective 1 funds and it is important to look at the background to the issues that we are currently considering. There are two major news stories breaking in the United Kingdom today. One is the shock news of BMW's decision to break up the Rover-Land Rover Group with the threat of massive redundancies right the way across the UK and the other breaking news this morning is the Conservative Party's stunning victory in the Ayr by-election driving the defending Labour Party into a miserable third place with a swing of almost 10%. Now these stories are not just topical background to this debate. In my view, they underpin the very issues which we are considering in the context of Structural Fund spending under Objectives 1 and 2 in those parts of the European Union which are facing major economic problems. As we have already heard from Jillian Evans, a major part of Wales, in constituencies which I also represent, has been granted Objective 1 status, but sadly ever since that announcement was made by the Commission, our problems in Wales have actually got even worse. As a direct result of what I would describe as UK government policy, our agricultural economy has all but collapsed. Farm incomes are at their lowest level for a generation and this decline is also hitting the manufacturing sector. I do not apologise for saying that the massive overvaluation of sterling which gives the UK Labour Chancellor an electoral war-chest of unprecedented proportions has handicapped every Welsh and UK manufacturer trying to export into the European market. It is little wonder that BMW blames the Rover decision directly on UK government economic policy, but that I fear is little comfort to the thousands of workers in Rover who have strained to improve the efficiency of the company only to find that their efforts have been undermined in Downing Street. I turn then to the central hand of Labour government at work in terms of the European Structural Funds package. The unacceptable behaviour of the UK Government over this has already brought about the timely end of the political career of the first Secretary of the Welsh Assembly. Sadly, the Structural Funds spending issues have been marked by delay by disputes in relation to matched funding and also in relation to the issue of additionality. Lest it be raised later in this debate let me make it clear: this is not a new issue and I share the view that it is an issue that needs to be examined very carefully by the Commission itself. I have the honour to be appointed as the rapporteur on the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee for the Structural Funds guidelines 2000-2006 and the committee agreed on that occasion, based on our recommendations to the Regional Policy Committee, that the Commission should pay attention to this issue of additionality. We reiterated the importance of ensuring that Structural Funds do not just merely, as it were, replace public spending otherwise earmarked for those areas that are lagging behind. I am rather sorry that the Regional Policy Committee did not incorporate that in the report themselves, but there it is. There are a number of questions that I would ask Commissioner Liikanen to take back to Commissioner Barnier. I appreciate that he is the Commissioner in office today but he may not be in a position to respond to these points himself. However, these are points that I seek to put in the context of certainly the area that I represent and I daresay they are points that would be supported by Jillian Evans on behalf of her party. What progress is being made in relation to the approval of the programming documents within the Commission? Will the Commissioner take the step in terms of transparency of publishing at an appropriate time the correspondence that has taken place between the Commission and the National Assembly? We were assured, I am bound to say by a rather complacent Economic Secretary, who has now become the First Secretary, that all matters were proceeding in an orderly fashion. Yet we hear from remarks that are made from time to time by the Commission that there are real problems and we find it difficult to do our job within this Parliament without that degree of transparency. So, will the Commission undertake to make that information available to all Members of the European Parliament? Will they undertake to keep us informed in relation to these matters? Will they undertake to challenge Member State Governments in relation to the maps that have been drawn up in relation to Objective 2 where also there has been quite clear evidence of jerrymandering also. The additionality issue is an important one, but I must say it is not the only one which gives much concern to many Members of this European Parliament. Mr President, I do not want to delay the House, but it would inappropriate if I did not mark that particular announcement on behalf of the whole House. Lord Bethell has been a popular and hard-working Member of this House for very many years. His service has been appreciated by all sides of the House. We recall his work on human rights in the Soviet Union when it was at the height of its powers. He brought the plights of Solzhenitsyn and Sakharov to widespread public attention. This Parliament's Sakharov Prize is something he played a key role in instituting. He also had a direct role in air liberalisation, so he has had a direct effect upon consumers throughout the European Union. I believe that every politician would hope to be in a position in which, in their lifetime, they could have made at least some difference on behalf of their constituents. For the people of Europe, Lord Bethell can say that he has been a politician who has made a difference. He will be greatly missed by all sides of the House. – Whatever brave face we put on it the outcome of the Barcelona Summit was indeed a disappointment. The Lisbon Process that was launched with such high hopes two years ago stalled in Stockholm last spring. Last week European leaders achieved just enough to keep economic reform on the road, but much too little to move it decisively forward in the way that Europe urgently needs. I was not surprised to hear the attack on Tony Blair's approach to the summit from his own MEP, Stephen Hughes, this afternoon describing Mr Blair's approach as neo-liberalism. We know that Mr Blair has no influence over the socialist instincts and votes of his Labour MEPs here but, long ago, Tony Blair spoke of Barcelona as being a make-or-break summit. After the meeting he spoke only of small solid steps. Mr Aznar has described the Lisbon Process as irreversible but that is not really the point. Even if Europe is not moving backwards, the failure to make real progress actually costs Europe jobs, prosperity and success. As the Barcelona meeting approached, the presidency's goals became more modest and more vague. Instead of full energy liberalisation, refused by France last year in defiance of its Treaty obligations, we now read "partial" liberalisation, sometime in the future. Instead of immediate action on the single market we read a string of deadlines tailing away over the years ahead. Sadly, the communiqué issued last weekend is really just a wish list of deadlines. It is not a series of binding agreements in spite of the best efforts that have been made by the Spanish Government and by the Spanish Prime Minister to whom I give due credit. The tough bargaining on the precise terms of the non-domestic energy liberalisation, for example, on financial services directives, on the single European sky, still lie ahead. On each of these, Barcelona is simply an assertion of will and not yet a done deal. At the same time Barcelona also points Europe in the wrong direction in other ways. The communiqué casually looks to greater government spending on a range of priorities whereas really it is lower taxes and smaller government that are the keys to Europe's future economic success. It reaffirms a European social model that is desperately in need of reform. It envisages greater harmonisation of energy taxes as the reward for what is a limited and uncertain energy liberalisation conceded by France. French resistance on energy and the interventionist tone of parts of the communiqué highlight the continuing need to oust socialist governments right across Europe. The liberalising instincts and hopes of Prime Ministers Aznar and Berlusconi are encouraging but the European Union will only be able to put them into practice if Mr Hughes and his friends on the left are rejected from power in the many national elections that are taking place this year. The return of the centre-right to power in Portugal after Italy, Austria and Denmark is a hopeful sign. Unless there is real change the hopes for Europe's economic future will be dashed. Finally,  put this properly: " The promise to become the world's most competitive economy sounded widely ambitious in Lisbon two years ago. Without rapid practical progress it will soon seem ridiculous". – Mr President, the question troubling me over Mr Karas' report is whether we are actually asked to endorse an information campaign on the practical implications of the introduction of the euro, or a propaganda campaign in favour of it. Surely no-one could challenge the need for information. True, some British newspapers declare that we already know all the facts, but the recent announcement of the merger between the Frankfurt and London stock exchanges left many British newspaper editors spectacularly exposed on the simple issue of which currency would be used for the exchange denomination. More than two-thirds of UK businesses are unaware of the practical implications of the introduction of the euro, even for those countries outside the euro zone. If there is funding available for the many seminars and conferences which UK trade associations, lawyers and accountants are holding, then as a UK lawyer let me declare my interest in ensuring that we get our share of it. But there is reason to believe that this campaign goes well beyond the provision of practical information. After all, the European Central Bank is holding its own information campaign, so why should we be duplicating the effort? Perhaps we see the answer in the evangelical tone of Mr Karas' report and his remarkable declaration that the euro information campaign must help to perpetuate the successful history of the euro. I certainly wish the euro well. Currency instability is bad for all of us, whether we are in or out of the euro zone. But I personally fail to recognise this historic success over the last six months, and the astonishing suggestion that the euro has proved a stabilising factor in the face of international monetary crises. Whether in or out of the euro zone it should be: information, ‘yes’, but propaganda, ‘no’. . Conservative MEPs opposed the confirmation of returning Commissioners from the former disgraced Commission in our election to the European Parliament in 1999. We do not doubt the ability of Stavros Dimas as Commissioner for Employment and Social Affairs but cannot participate in confirming the appointment of the whole Commission as we are currently obliged to do and therefore we have abstained in the vote. – Mr President, the Laeken Council will sadly rank amongst the less impressive meetings of its kind. It was a missed opportunity and a serious disappointment, like the Belgian Presidency which preceded it. Why? Not just because of the consistency of the Foreign Minister, Louis Michel, who for us emerges as an endearing Harry Worth-type figure on the European political stage. We seem to have passed over his proclamation that the British-led UN peacekeeping force in Afghanistan was to become an EU body. The key problem is that for this Presidency these last months have been a painful learning curve. The excessive aspirations of July, often misguided like ideas for a new Euro-tax on all EU citizens or a Tobin tax on capital movements, found themselves on a collision course with reality. At Laeken the EU's new rapid reaction force was declared operational even though, critically, its access to NATO assets is currently blocked. Indeed, the precise relationship between the force and NATO remains ambiguous. The European arrest warrant enjoyed a particularly painful birth with some uncertainty about when, or if ever, it will apply in Italy. The attempt to assign sites for various new EU bodies also descended into farce. Little progress was made at Laeken, or indeed, throughout the Belgian Presidency, on the competitiveness agenda in Europe. The Lisbon strategy, which has been grounded since Stockholm, now faces a moment of truth in Barcelona if we are truly to become the dynamic knowledge-based economy that is sought. Finally let me turn to the Declaration itself. The text acknowledges the EU's failings in terms of democracy, transparency and closeness to people but seems to come up yet again with solutions on federal lines. These options represent the wrong route for Europe. The Convention should learn the lessons of the last decade, reject ambitions for a European super-state, and focus on modest and intelligent reforms which can really deliver a Europe that works. – Mr President, since submitting that request to you I now speak not just on behalf of the 36 Members but on behalf of my group. I wish to draw the House's attention to reports which have appeared in the Belgian, German and UK newspapers this weekend which relate to quite serious allegations that the European Parliament and also Members of the Commission may have been misled in relation to elements of the evidence in the Andreasen affair. This arises in the context of a report apparently commissioned by Commissioner Kinnock prior to suspending the Commission accountant. Both the press and Commission sources have extensively quoted from this report. It is essential that the report is published in full forthwith so that the House has the full facts concerning this matter. It is important not just in the context of the whole Andreasen affair but also in the context of the budget discharge procedure which is to be undertaken during the next few weeks. The Commission cannot choose to engage in selective briefing of extracts from Commission papers and then claim general confidentiality in relation to those same documents in the context of the framework agreement. For that reason, I propose to the House that tomorrow at 5 p.m., when the Commission attends, the Commission should explain its position in relation to this document, which is allegedly a report from the head of internal audit making these serious allegations. That document should be published and this House should be in a position to form a view in relation to it. I therefore ask for the House's agreement to my proposal that the Commission is requested to come to this House at 5 p.m. tomorrow in order to deal with these serious allegations. – Mr President, I have to begin by saying that all my remarks in relation to the Seville Summit have been spoiled by Mr Watson's speech. I am afraid, Prime Minister Aznar, I cannot get out of my mind this image of you endeavouring to seduce "Carmen" Tony Blair. I was going to begin by saying what a great encouragement and example you have been to the centre-right parties in Europe. Very many of the political successes we have seen during the course of recent months have been because of the good example you have set. However, looking at the agenda at Seville and the areas where we would wish to see greater progress, I have to say that I am a little disappointed at the economic reform package. I do not blame you for that, Prime Minister, I blame recalcitrant governments elsewhere in Europe. However, there is no doubt that there is too much complacency about corporate governance issues in the United States and about the assumption that the Lisbon agenda will just in some way be delivered without there being marked change here within Europe. The Prime Minister understands that, but I am not sure that many other Member State governments do. In relation to terrorism and illegal immigration, it is quite right that you have put those matters at the forefront. Much has been said about them. I merely endorse the remarks and your support for raising those matters in terms of the overall agenda. In relation to enlargement, certainly my party looks for considerable progress in negotiations on the CAP and structural reform. We look with some interest at what may happen in Ireland in the referendum, which may turn upon the charms of our President. This brings me back to the compelling image of "Carmen" Blair, because when it comes to Council reform – the concept of having a five-year presidency – maybe we would regard you as being the ideal candidate for that role, but Mr Blair has been telling our House of Commons that not you – is the man who set the agenda at Seville. He did not say it once, he said it five times! His Europe Minister said that it was Mr Blair's agenda that is being set. I would just ask you to reconsider the whole story of Carmen because I do not think that she was necessarily a totally reliable person to be engaged in seduction. Mr President, Taoiseach, I should like to begin by wishing the Irish presidency success in its work over the coming six months. You have set out a number of important priorities for action in the period ahead, not least that of kick-starting the Lisbon agenda on economic reform and competitiveness. I want to concentrate today on the issue of the draft Constitution and the situation following the failure of the Brussels Summit in December. However, as we have made clear on a number of occasions, the Union must also get to grips with advancing the stalled Lisbon process. Ireland has made great economic strides in recent years, but throughout the Union there remains a reluctance to embrace genuine economic reform. I was pleased to note in the press this week that the Commission wishes to take forward the liberalisation of the internal market in services. Such issues are worth tackling in the short to medium term but, as regards the long term, EU Member States need to be more ambitious in their approach. However, my enthusiasm is tempered by the reality that liberalisation in areas such as medicine, legal and fiscal advice and employment agencies, whilst worthy, is essentially a distraction from the big picture of further liberalisation in the telecommunications, energy and financial services sectors. I urge the Taoiseach to exert his influence over the Union's agenda in the months ahead to promote real and lasting economic reform. If he sets the agenda, he will have our full and enthusiastic support. On the question of the draft Constitution, which came to grief at Brussels last December, I would simply say this: our view has always been that the draft Constitution was moving the EU in the wrong direction. The aspirations of the Laeken Summit two years ago, when the Heads of Government expressed the hope that the Convention would bring the Union closer to its citizens, has singularly failed to materialise. I would in any case like to ask the Taoiseach, in the light of the collapse of the talks, to answer one very specific question. In recent correspondence I have had with Mr Peter Hain, the British Government's main representative on the Convention, he refers to the ‘Treaty that we agreed at the European Council ...’. Does the presidency recognise that a treaty was ‘agreed’, or is it the case, as has been said before, that nothing is agreed until everything is agreed? We all need to have urgent clarification on that. – Mr President, I was seeking your clarification of the Rules on the set of circumstances that were just raised. If a machine is not working, is it the case that a vote that is entirely disregarded? If so, it seems to me that is a matter that may require of an amendment in the Rules of this House. It clearly is the case that the intention of the House was, by a tied vote, not to carry that particular measure. – Mr President, the Brussels Summit was above all about enlargement of the European Union. The British Conservative Party has argued strongly and consistently in favour of the enlargement eastwards of the EU since the Berlin Wall fell some 13 years ago. Indeed, the manifesto on which I and my colleagues were elected in 1999 states quite clearly the reasons why we support this process so enthusiastically. It stated that enlargement is an historic opportunity to advance the principles for which Europe should stand: free trade, free markets, deregulation and cooperation. It would also mean more trade, more stability and more prosperity for the existing Member States of the European Union. Furthermore, the European Union simply cannot ignore the moral duty that it owes to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. At Brussels, significant progress was made towards achieving agreement on the entry of 10 applicant states at the Copenhagen Council in December. My party warmly welcomes this. Europe will be a better place as a result of enlargement and I congratulate the Danish Presidency on the skill and the commitment it has displayed in reaching this point. However, given the fact that we have waited 13 years for this historic moment, I want to reiterate that there must be no foot-dragging, no more delays and no more last-minute vested interests should be allowed to stand in the way. On no account should we allow budgetary discussions to be derailed by reopening issues that have been long settled, in particular, the continuation of the British budgetary abatement, which was agreed unanimously by heads of government at Berlin in 1999. This budgetary abatement is both fair and justified and any attempt to use it as a smokescreen to disguise unwillingness to reform the CAP must be dismissed as political opportunism. I regret the fact that those Member States which most actively promote CAP reform, including the British Prime Minister, were so comprehensively out-manoeuvred at Brussels. I hope they recover their negotiating skills by the time we get to Copenhagen. . British Conservative MEPs have been actively engaged in raising concerns relating to Eurostat, and have played a major role in highlighting the issue to the wider public. We do not believe that the Commission has accepted political responsibility for the failures that have become clear from this affair. We believe the Commission has been given a clear message by the motion for a resolution on Eurostat adopted on 22 April 2004 which: - stated that the Commission had failed to draw the appropriate conclusions from the Eurostat affair, and that it had failed to accept its political responsibility either collectively or individually; - made clear Parliament's intention to continue to monitor and scrutinise future developments in the ongoing Eurostat investigations and potential legal actions, with a view to proposing further reforms. Since the motion of censure was originally devised, the responsible Commissioner Pedro Solbes has resigned and returned to Spanish politics. In these circumstances, we do not believe that it would be appropriate for the whole Commission to be dismissed at this time, but we urge the Commission to take note of the serious concerns expressed and urgently address the issues as laid out in the resolution adopted by Parliament. Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking Commissioner Verheugen for his address. He very helpfully reminded us that we had the Convention because of the shock of Nice. I recall that earlier this week, Mr President, you and I were addressing a meeting of the CBI in the United Kingdom and I made the same point then. This whole process is one that goes back to the Nice Treaty and the shock of the outcome of the referendum in Ireland – I do not ask you to comment on that, Mr President. What we talked about at Laeken was engaging with European citizens and explaining what Europe is about to citizens who are feeling remote from Europe. Yet the headline in the  last week was: 'Campaign launched to save Constitution'. MEPs are reported to be so concerned about the activities of national governments in the IGC that they felt it necessary to take to the streets in defence of the Convention's plans. We have heard in the debate today that the Convention must be defended against something wicked that is called national self-interest. Those who have launched this campaign will find it rather difficult to rally the electorate to their cause; according to a recent opinion poll, 61% of the European electorate have never heard of the Convention at all and in the UK 83% of people have never heard of it. What people in my country and the rest of Europe want is a referendum on the Constitution. In a Eurobarometer poll published last week  of the people polled in the 15 Member States and 10 accession countries wanted a referendum. In the UK that number is 86%. Mr Duff is amongst them: his party also wants a referendum. He and I might differ significantly about the implications of this Constitution, but as democrats we should be in a position to argue our case with the people and to see what the outcome of that debate should be. What message is being sent in my own country by the continued refusal to listen to the people whose interests we are elected to serve? I should like to clarify a couple of points relating to the Convention. I would be grateful for clarification from the Council on the position outlined by the Maltese Prime Minster, who said recently that there had been some agreement from those countries that do not have to hold referenda that they will not allow referenda. That is not a democratic situation. I am very grateful to President Prodi, who has accepted that the Constitution amounts to a big change from the basic concept of nation states, a position confirmed by the German, Spanish and French Governments but denied by my own government. Finally, on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, Mr President, you and I heard a UK minister putting forward the view that there was nothing to worry about. A former UK minister said that in the United Kingdom the Charter of Fundamental Rights will have as much legal force as the . The  is a comic for children in the United Kingdom. I rather think that this Constitution proposes something different. That is why I believe that the people should have a say in it. – Mr President, I wonder if this might be an appropriate time to mention an issue that arose yesterday during voting time. It will be recalled that there was one particular vote in the plenary session on my report that was resolved by a majority of one vote. I do not want to reopen that issue. The Presidency declared that closed and I fully accept that. But following that decision a whole range of Members in this House began to indicate that machines had not worked and so on. It has occurred to me overnight that if the result of a vote is declared and there is within the Rules no provision for the issue to be reopened at all, given the alarming frequency with which a whole range of machines do not work, this could create serious difficulties. If there were a technical difficulty and a whole block of votes in one part of this House were not counted, the outcome of the votes would call into question the whole efficacy of the decisions that we make. I wonder whether in fact there should be some provision in the Rules for that. I hope that you will feel that is a genuine point of order. – Mr President, in the time available, I wish on behalf of the Economic Committee to stress three issues that we considered to be of cardinal importance when we examined the annual report on the Community's financial interests and the fight against fraud. First was the issue of definition. It is the case that the Commission have come under a significant amount of attention in recent years from Parliament and from the European public at large who want the Commission to deal with allegations of fraud, but it is also important that we should know what we are talking about when we define fraud. The annual report itself indicates that for the first time there has been an attempt made to try to assess what amounts to fraud and what is general irregularity, and I am of the view that it does not help the reputation of our European institutions if we are lax with definition. It is important that the work being undertaken by the Commission should be expanded because, in a situation in which 20% of irregularity amounts to fraud, the fact of the matter is that by referring to it as fraud and irregularity, European citizens can often be left with an impression that all of the claims are fraudulent ones. The second point that I want to make is about the commitment of Member States to deal with fraud. The fact of the matter is that Member States have a high responsibility here. They are responsible for administering some 80% of the EU's budget and they must recognise that they are, at the very least, partners if not prime movers in attempting to address this important issue, and the report indicates that the performance of Member States has been mixed to say the least. My final point concerns the accession countries. We must demand that the accession countries also endeavour to work in conjunction with the European Union and to the highest standards. Mr President, we British Conservatives note Mr Berlusconi's words on the need to re-launch the European economy. President-in-Office, you mention competitiveness, economic growth and deregulation. They are all welcome words but they are also well-worn words from past Council statements. The question is whether on this occasion these words will turn into action. Sadly, it seems again that Europe is more interested in rhetoric than the real reform that is needed to kick-start the Lisbon process. The need for real and far-reaching structural economic reform is pressing. What evidence is there of concrete actions from Member States to implement such reform? The president has spoken of his commitment to implementation of the financial services action plan, but the reality is that progress on the investment services directive has been frustrated just recently by Member States under this presidency. Low growth and unemployment remain critical issues for Europe: matters that can only be addressed fully by the application of a determined political will to act over the structural weakness of the European economy. But Europe is yet again more comfortable in pressing ahead with constitutional and institutional reform rather than taking practical action which makes a real difference to the day-to-day lives of our constituents. There surely was a message for all of us in the Swedish referendum vote. Has it been heeded? The message from Sweden instead appears to have led some Member States to a renewed determination that voters should not be allowed the chance to express their views on the great European issues. Of course in Spain, in Portugal, in the Netherlands, Denmark and Ireland, the electorate will have their say on the constitution in a referendum and I was pleased to note that the Prime Minister of France, Mr Raffarin, has said that it is necessary for a referendum to be held there. That is why we were all a bit confused last week by the attitude of the British Government on the issue of a UK referendum. Indeed, the government seems to be in complete disarray on the subject: senior civil servants briefing in the UK denying a referendum was untenable; a junior foreign office minister keeping the door open before it was firmly shut by Mr Blair. Eighty per cent of British people want a say in a referendum on this Constitution. Yesterday, my party in the UK launched a petition to our parliament demanding it. The fundamental changes in the relationship between the Union and the citizens of Europe proposed in the draft Treaty will not have legitimacy without the consent of the people. There is just one other issue that I think has been causing real concern in the UK in recent days: the future of European defence and the Transatlantic Alliance. Our American allies have expressed genuine concerns about the draft Treaty's proposals on defence. The US Ambassador to NATO has said recently that they constitute the most significant threat to NATO's future. The British Prime Minister says the opposite, that he would do nothing to undermine NATO, but this is of course the Prime Minister who assured Britain that the Constitution was nothing more than a 'tidying up exercise'. France and Belgium continue to want a separate military structure to be created with a new headquarters in Brussels. We see this as a challenge to NATO's supremacy in European defence. I want to make it clear, to put our position on the record clearly and unambiguously. We believe in NATO as the bedrock of European defence and any initiative that seeks to create a parallel structure within the EU framework undermines that long-standing and proven alliance. . – Mr President, this is my first year in the European Parliament and I have been struck during the course of this budget debate by the contrast between rhetoric and delivery. Last year when we were discussing the budget, we had politicians in the Member State governments who were posturing on the issue of renewable energy, whilst at the same time proposing major cuts to the Save programme in this Parliament. I found that to be a curious position. But here we are yet again, twelve months later, in a situation in which ministers from Member State governments have come out of summits, preening themselves over their ambitious targets for research, while the draft budget prepared by the Council makes total cuts in payment appropriations in the research subsection of the Fifth Framework Programme of no less than EUR 100 million. So there really is a stark difference between delivery on the part of the Council, and the rhetoric that the Council uses. My committee has mandated me to make that point and we will certainly, in a sense of discipline, be aiming to see at least one half of that cut in payment appropriations being restored in the plenary vote. I take this opportunity to congratulate Mrs Haug on the work done in the Committee on Budgets, particularly the work done to restore lines in relation to small- and medium-sized enterprises, again cut by the Council. That has been a priority of our committee and a priority of this Parliament. Again, it is difficult to reconcile the rhetoric of the Council with its proposals in that area. The proposals put forward by our committee and supported by the Committee on Budgets are much better. It would take more than the one minute I have left if I were to go into all of my committee’s views in relation to the Meda programme. We know the difficulties. Commissioner Patten has outlined them to us, but there is important work to be undertaken within the area of the Meda programme. We only have to look at our television sets to see the difficulties in the Middle East to be reminded of that each and every day. I am also the draftsman for my committee on Mrs Rühle’s report on the ECSC budget. Let me briefly touch on a number of items there. We are of the view that there should be much more emphasis on developing research. I saw that strain in her report as well. We want to see it increased by 10%. The priorities should be clean technology, environmental protection and remediation and safety for the future. Mrs Rühle agrees with me on that, so again in that area there is consensus within this Parliament which, I am bound to say, all too sadly is not often shared by the Council. – Mr President, this week in Barcelona the European Council will gather in order to seek to build upon the Lisbon Process. At that meeting, we will be pressing for more action to be taken in relation to deregulation, for more liberalisation, ensuring that we learn the lessons of employment flexibility. There are those of us who have felt ever since we have arrived in the European Parliament that there is a lot of rhetoric in this place about free trade, but that there is also a great deal of protectionism with Member States here in Europe. The entire agenda in Europe of taking forward a uniform competition policy and bearing down on state aid is geared towards ensuring that we have free trade. In those circumstances, those of us who count ourselves as the best friends of the United States are hugely disappointed by the action that the US President has taken. It is not putting it too strongly to say that, in a sense, we feel betrayed by it. I do not link this to our support for the United States following the events of 11 September. The events of 11 September were so horrific that they should not be linked with any sort of agreement in any other policy area. But for those of us who have been pointing to the United States as an example of a deregulated and liberalised economy, it has been a shattering blow to see the way in which President Bush, faced with the difficulties that his steel industry is encountering, has gone for protectionism. What is even worse is to read in the  today a justification of this action from Robert Zoellick, the US Trade Representative. I feel sorry for Mr Zoellick, whom again we would regard as a friend of British Conservatives, because I must say that article destroys any credibility that he had in terms of discussion of trade issues. The United States representatives watching this debate need to know that, while we may have heard from the usual suspects in terms of anti-Americanism, those of us who are friends of the United States feel very badly let down indeed. Mr President, I would begin by emphasising some of the remarks made in this Chamber today regarding our concern about EU accounting. That concern is more widespread than I can recall on any previous occasion. Looking at Annex 3 of the Communication from the Commission, I am particularly concerned to see that the Prodi Commission is claiming great success in this area. Its commitment to achieve a broad programme of internal reform includes agreeing a new financial regulation for the management of Community funds. However, there is nothing new about the Eurostat crisis or the background to it, while the Court of Auditors has been unable to sign off the accounts for nine successive years Let us not say that Parliament is suddenly completely in the clear over this. Parliament has, notwithstanding the approach taken by the Court of Auditors, passed those accounts year-in year-out, so there is no doubt whatsoever that the Commission has been led to the view that these were not matters of sufficiently high concern to Parliament. If that has changed I welcome it. Why do I welcome it? Because at this moment EU citizens regard the Commission as synonymous with negatives as regards fraud, maladministration and shoddy accounting. I very much regret that and take the view that the European Union's image should be improved. We look to the Commission to address that issue. How can it do this? Very simply by addressing the concerns that have been raised, by not disregarding those concerns and by taking action in relation to the position of the whistleblowers who have drawn them to public attention. There are currently three such persons who have been suspended from their duties. I call on the Commissioner to take action to ensure that those people who have drawn attention to the scandals relating to EU accounting, and whose current suspension is completely misunderstood by the people of Europe, are restored to the role of clearing up the EU's accounts. – Mr President, the thoughts and prayers of my British Conservative colleagues today are with the men and women of my country's armed forces on whom has fallen the heavy and dangerous responsibility of disarming Saddam Hussein of his weapons of mass destruction. The international community has long recognised the threat that Saddam poses for the security of our world, but our institutions have sadly failed to implement its decisions and bring about Iraqi disarmament as the UN has demanded in 17 resolutions. I have to say that, listening to this debate, I quite wonder whether some people ever intended that these resolutions should be implemented. Today is not a day, however, to argue our differences over the reasons for this. As the Commissioner has said, there are lessons which the UN, NATO and Europe will have to learn for the future. That includes the practical reality of reaching a full European consensus when there clearly is division - there is even division in this debate. It is because our first responsibility is for the defence and security of our people and the preservation of our democratic values - the very values which defend the freedom to participate in demonstrations such as those we have seen throughout Europe in recent days - that my party has given its clear support to the British Government and helped the Prime Minister, Tony Blair, to secure a major and decisive vote of confidence in our Parliament last Tuesday evening. Now that the war has started, the eyes of the world have clearly moved elsewhere, but I welcome the publication of the road map to peace in the Middle East and believe it should not be treated in the cynical way in which it has been referred to in this debate today. If we are committed to peace in the Middle East we should all welcome that announcement. I also welcome the recognition of the role of the UN in post-war reconstruction in Iraq. I am very encouraged by what Commissioner Patten had to say today about reconstruction after what I thought was a rather different message last week. There is no doubt that we enjoy peace, democracy and freedom of expression because European history has told us that the last generation, including the United States led by Roosevelt, fought to preserve these freedoms. Failure to confront Hussein now would create dangers to those freedoms in the future. – Mr President, for British Conservatives the efficient and uniform application of European competition policy is at the core of achieving an effective single market across the whole of the European Union. It therefore follows that any proposal which suggests major reform of the machinery for competition policy enforcement must be closely and carefully examined. The truth is that the single market is not yet complete. During my six months as a Member of this Parliament, I have become acutely aware of the determination of many Members to drive forward what is described as the European project. We daily hear the need to promote a wider and deeper Europe. But all this, in effect, is so much rhetoric when we look at the national, regional and local obstacles which continue to block the operation of a true European single market. That is the context in which I want to consider the Commission's proposals. I should like to make it clear that we have the greatest confidence in and respect for Commissioner Monti. We look to him as the man to root out cartels. But he would recognise that, as for everybody else, we have to consider his particular proposals and subject them to rigorous examination. That is something that has been done by our rapporteur on the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs, Mr von Wogau. I want to congratulate him, sadly in his absence, for the thorough and rigorous way in which he has undertaken the preparation of his report – and also for putting up with my being such a thorn in his side! He mentioned earlier that the report was carried with a significant majority but not with my support. So although I may not share his conclusions, I believe he has illustrated in his report many of the issues which the Commission must address. The first is the potential for renationalisation of competition policy. I know that the Commission is set against this, but the potential exists. I remain worried about the capacity of national courts and the capacity of the national competition authorities. I remain worried about the whole operation of the judicial process. I asked Commissioner Monti the other day what happens if he proves to be wrong and there is an effective renationalisation. Mr von Wogau said we can look to the European Court. Well, we in Britain are looking to the European Court at the moment. We find that the European Court is not able to provide us with interim measures in a certain dispute that we have with France at the moment, in which we have the support of the Commission. Unless anybody thinks that this is merely a nationalistic point, in the Factortame case, in which the British Government was the defendant, it took ten years for the European Court to give a ruling. So, judicially, something needs to be done. I ask the Commission what can be done to speed up implementation in this particular area. In relation to legal certainty, I endorse the point made by Mrs Thyssen. It is important that business has legal certainty. I mentioned this again to Commissioner Monti recently. He said we must not always be carried along by lawyers. I must declare an interest as a lawyer but also as a former competition minister in the United Kingdom. We all have, as it were, our histories to live with, but it is important that business has legal certainty. I would also ask the Commission whether an analysis has been undertaken of the implications of this change for business: a cost-benefit analysis of the sort that is now becoming so much more European policy. I know there has been an analysis of the implications for the Commission of the change. We have been told how, currently, people's time is being wasted and that the changes, therefore, could be beneficial. But I really feel that, in the circumstances, we want to know what the implications would be for business. Finally, we, as British Conservatives, are looking for a change in direction, towards the development of an independent competition authority. I would like to hear what Commissioner Monti has to say about that. – Prime Minister Aznar's performance this morning suggests that his presidency promises to be focused and business-like and committed to addressing the big issues. The presidency has many tasks on the international front; carrying forward the global war on terrorism is the most difficult and the most important. The presidency has promised to resolutely promote solidarity with the United States at this time of crisis, and it is right to do so, but other foreign problems will crowd in. In Zimbabwe we have a growing tragedy which requires urgent EU action: smart sanctions need to be introduced immediately and a clear message sent about the dangerous consequences of the criminal path on which Mr Mugabe is currently engaged. The presidency faces similar challenges on the economic front. If Europe is serious about making itself the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010, then Barcelona promises to be a moment of truth. We simply cannot afford continued failure. Europe has to get it right. Since Stockholm things have in fact moved backwards. The liberalising agenda has become bogged down by new social and environmental targets. Since then we have seen at least three new EU directives which directly reduce labour market flexibility, with more in the pipeline, as well as new national laws, as in France, that tie the hands of business. This is a job-destroying agenda. In the target sectors for greater competition, the picture is frankly unacceptable. In financial services – telecoms for instance – liberalisation is proceeding too slowly. The freeing up of energy markets and postal services is way behind schedule. If Europe really wants to emerge as the global economic leader by the end of this decade, it must show real commitment. We need to make it easier to start and run a business and to keep and invest profits. That means a lot of vested interests will need to be confronted. We look to Prime Minister Aznar to lead the way. – Madam President, one of the great disadvantages of this Parliament is that it is never short of superlatives when it comes to heaping praise upon the presidencies that take place in this regular six-monthly cycle. The disadvantage is that when we really have some genuine praise to give, it does not come with the force that is deserved. For my part, Mr Rasmussen has been an outstanding President of the Council. I would like, on behalf of my party, to congratulate him, coming from – and here I adopt what our President said – not one of the largest European countries. I had said smallest but I obey the President's edict on this. I am bound to say too that my own prime minister may have some personal aspirations for the presidency of the Council if it works on a five-yearly cycle, but I very much hope that Mr Rasmussen has now entered the field in that regard. It is quite right that reference was made to the visionary words of Pope John Paul many years ago. I want to make some reference to Margaret Thatcher's own words at Bruges. These words have sadly become synonymous with euroscepticism, but the real message that Margaret Thatcher gave at Bruges was about a wider Europe. In those circumstances her message about Europe not becoming so inward-looking is one that has been carried forward by Mr Rasmussen and is one that we all celebrate today. I also endorse the remarks of Mr Verheugen. I distance myself from what Mr Abitbol had to say about him because he was quite right in talking about the moral obligation that we have to candidate countries, about the fact that democracy and human rights are the battle that these countries have taken forward. Sometimes we adopt too much of a patronising attitude towards these candidate countries. We have to recognise that both Parliament and peoples will need to ratify entry. I hope we learn the lesson of Nice. That is a message for all of us here. The élites within Europe do not recognise that we have to treat these countries with the respect that they deserve, not only because we want them to vote positively on entry, but because the institutions that we have must become more accountable and more responsive. That is what the Convention is supposed to be all about. We have a structured design for six countries which is now difficult to operate on the basis of 15 countries and which shortly will be a mechanism that will have to serve the interests of 25 countries. The Convention should not become tied down in a debate covering only institutional matters, but must shift its focus to demonstrate how Europe can become a much more accountable and responsive institution for the future. – Mr President, in this Chamber we are very frequently engaged in debating what we consider to be the great political issues. But I seem to remember that when we were elected in 1999 our greatest concern was how we made our debates relevant to our electors. I want to tell you that the area that I represent here in Parliament – the constituency of Wales – is a country that was markedly affected by the foot and mouth outbreak. This debate is very relevant to people in my constituency who suffered from what has been described as a community tragedy. There was an impact on a really human scale. We sometimes do not recognise the sense of isolation that was felt by many farmers and by other people living in rural areas because of the devastating economic and other impacts of this outbreak. I therefore want to begin by thanking the committee for visiting Welshpool, Builth Wells and Sennybridge and meeting people within my constituency who said to Mr Kreissl-Dörfler that the European Parliament was the only official body that came to listen to their views. That addresses, in my view, the issue of the relevance of the European Parliament. Setting up the committee has been a worthwhile exercise. Secondly, I am sorry we had such difficulty in establishing the committee. I am sorry it was such a struggle. I am sorry that the British Government was so anxious about its own position – that there might be any criticism of its position – that we struggled for some six months to get the committee up and running. We all recognise that it was just one group that was opposed to setting up the committee. Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, though coming from that group, has been a paragon in approaching this issue in a non-political way. His report is first-rate. His report has endeavoured to address the real core issues that are of concern. Contrary to the views of the people who said that this exercise was going to be irrelevant, Commissioner, we are looking forward to your statement tomorrow, and to having a statement that addresses the concerns outlined by the committee that have emerged in the course of the last year. Others have touched upon the details. I do not want to do that. All I want to say is this: this is a report that had almost universal support in committee. I am sorry that some additional amendments have been tabled because we should cling to the consensus that is within the report. It is the best example, in my view, of the European Parliament addressing the concerns of voters in a practical way. It is a huge example for the future relevance of the European Parliament. It is a tragedy that at the last minute there are some people who still feel it is appropriate, rather churlishly, to protect the reputation of the UK Government. We are engaged in much more important things than that. I ask you to look at the report as it came out of the committee and to respond accordingly, Commissioner. – Mr President, the speeches that we have heard from our Convention representatives stand in stark contrast with what our own citizens are being told by our national leaders in relation to what is contained within the Convention document. In the United Kingdom, the UK Government representative, Peter Hain, has dismissed the document as a mere tidying-up exercise, and although the UK Government is wont to correct Mr Hain from time to time, on this occasion our Prime Minister has promoted him to Leader of the House of Commons, so we might imagine that he approves of that statement. But we do not have to rely upon Mr Hain’s statement of some weeks ago: in the last 24 hours the British Foreign Secretary has given his judgment upon this Convention document. He has told people in the UK that there are no significant constitutional changes, that there is no significant change in the relationship between the EU and Member States, that the IGC will not be concluded until next year and that the UK will have a veto in relation to each and every decision. The document, he says, is a draft, and like any draft it is open to improvement and amendment. But now we are engaged in the hard bargaining, the last-minute agreements reached by democratically elected Heads of State, and the Treaty must ultimately have the unanimous support of all Member States. I shall just refer to a few areas: on foreign and defence policy, he says that a guarantee has been won, and that even if such proposals are put forward in relation to common and defence policies, ‘we will oppose them and we will have a veto’. On the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Foreign Secretary said in the last 24 hours that ‘the net effect of our proposals will ensure that the Charter of Fundamental Rights will not in any way extend the Union’s competence or powers’. Finally, in relation to economic matters he says ‘we do not support the existing text of Article 13, we do not support tax harmonisation, we have a unanimity lock on these proposals through the use of a veto.’ That is the message that people are getting in the United Kingdom. It is not surprising in the context of this contrast that 88% of people in the United Kingdom in a massive recent poll indicated that they wanted to have a say in a referendum on these proposals. I am delighted to see that Mr Watson, somewhat late in the day, has started reading the Daily Mail and has now concluded that is a call that he personally should support as well. I look forward to seeing his press release, although I am bound to say I do not think his remarks today about qualified majority voting on foreign policy, and national parliaments having no say in relation to ratification, will be any part of what appears in the UK. . – Mr President, I am honoured to have been asked by my colleague, Mr Agag Longo, to present his excellent and detailed report to Parliament on the Commission's XXXth report on competition policy. The report draws together several important areas of competition policy. The rapporteur restates Parliament's strong support for Commissioner Monti in spelling out that effective competition is not only an important engine of economic growth but also works to the advantage of consumers, through greater variety, better quality and lower prices for both goods and services. We congratulate the Commissioner on the success of European competition policy, but we recognise that such success can only be maintained by constant and rigorous monitoring. Our rapporteur has highlighted further measures to which Parliament will be giving its attention in the coming months. The future of car distribution is one area where we eagerly await the Commission's proposals. I believe that our initial evaluations suggest that consumers are missing out under the current exemption, with unjustifiable price variations between Member States. We also await the consultation on Merger Regulation No 4064/89. We welcome Commissioner Monti's positive approach to consultation with our committee, but we repeat our call for major constitutional change which gives Parliament real codecision power with the Commission. Commissioner Monti has played the central role in fostering a global approach to competition policy and enforcement issues. Our committee supports efforts to build an international competition system in the framework of the WTO, whilst recognising that Europe's credibility in this area will depend on efficient and effective cooperation between the EU's own national competition authorities. We are also looking to the outcome of negotiations between the Commission and the Council on the Commission's proposals for reform of the enforcement regime under Articles 81 and 82 which we approved last month. Mr Agag Longo draws attention in his report to other important elements of Parliament's position on the reform, our strong support for Article 3 and our real concern over issues of legal certainty, as well as separation of powers. I know that Commissioner Monti is aware of this, but we have consistently argued that the Commission must guard against the danger that the reform may lead to inconsistent application or even to a renationalisation of competition policy, thereby destroying the single market. In continuing to raise these issues we reflect the concerns of many in the business community in Europe. Our committee has also underlined other competition concerns. We look to further market liberalisation, but we want effective enforcement of already agreed policy areas in the gas and the electricity sectors. The Commissioner is aware of the complaints which have been made about some acquisitions by companies which do not appear to operate in a liberalised home market and we look to the Commission to investigate whether state-aid rules have been breached in such cases. Mr Agag Longo also urges further progress on liberalisation in areas such as energy, transport and the postal services. We welcome the progress which the Commissioner has made on state aid control. We also support his work in ensuring that candidate countries for membership fully understand the requirements of EU competition policy, particularly the application and relevance of such rules in terms of market distortion. Our committee will shortly respond in fuller detail to the Commission's ninth state aid survey, but this report also touches on this area. We applaud progress on implementation of a public register of state aid and a scoreboard as important tools for promoting transparency and democratic control, even if I embarrass Commissioner Monti by saying that his practical demonstration of the scoreboard to our committee was frustrated by technical problems. We view such widespread public access to information as essential. In the same light we welcome the continuing commitment to hold competition day seminars under each Council presidency, although we are keen to see wider public knowledge of, and participation in, such events. Finally, on an entirely personal note, I would like to express my concern that the Commission has made particularly slow progress over complaints concerning the Spanish government's treatment of Gibraltar citizens in relation to telecoms matters. These complaints have been outstanding with the Commission for over five years, whilst the Commission has itself recently initiated a state aids investigation of Gibraltar's investment schemes, ordering it to cease forthwith until the Commission investigation is concluded. I am bound to say that this hardly seems to me to be an even-handed approach and I hope Commissioner Monti will agree to look into this. Otherwise I commend Mr Agag Longo's excellent report to the House. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I want to begin by offering you our unqualified good wishes for a successful presidency. Recently the debate over the structure, the powers and the institutions of the European Union has come to dominate almost every European discussion. It therefore comes as a breath of fresh air to see that you have put the pursuit of the Lisbon strategy at the forefront of your policy objectives. We need to face up to the challenges of economic change and reform. At a time when Europe is facing deflation and stagnation, it is encouraging to see that you recognise the need to revive the process of major liberalisation of European economies. We need real action on the Lisbon strategy rather than empty rhetoric. The millions of unemployed throughout Europe want sustainable jobs, rather than our apparent obsession with institutional design and architecture. Jobs and prosperity will have a more direct and real impact on the lives of the people that we are here to represent than tinkering with EU institutions. Turning then to the IGC and the prospective new constitutional treaty, I urge you and your fellow Heads of State to return to the objectives that were set out in Laeken. You were amongst the European leaders who called for the Convention to bring the EU closer to the citizens. Some of us seriously question whether the outcome really achieves that. The European governments should have that Laeken statement firmly in their minds when they begin the negotiations in the IGC. Our political élites have always assumed that the only way that Europe can succeed is by regular, institutional change. But our enlarged Europe of 25 states should be a place where proper respect for the diversity of nation states is upheld and defended. Imposing a straitjacket of uniformity can only damage the true interests of unity in the EU. I also applaud the statement that you made in your priority objectives, in which you say your desire to complete the work of the IGC is dictated by respect for the values of democracy and transparency. We trust that you will keep to this in the intergovernmental negotiations that lie ahead. I would also like to clarify a matter I raised in Parliament with President Cox yesterday. The accession countries will be affected by the outcome of the IGC in the same way as the current 15 EU states. I note that they will participate in the IGC on an equal footing with current Member States. President Cox repeated that statement to me yesterday after my speech. But what does it really mean in practice? Surely it should mean that the accession countries have a full and equal right to vote in the Council on the outcome of the IGC? Perhaps you can confirm whether that is also your understanding. I also welcome your clear commitment to revive and reinvigorate the transatlantic relationship. Recent events have damaged the strong ties that exist between Europe and the USA. In a newspaper yesterday, you said that the West must be united. There cannot be competition between us and America. Given the growing strains between America and some countries in recent times, we are looking to you to take this priority forward as a high priority. We must ensure that the European Union in the defence field does not pursue objectives that lead to antagonism with the institutions of the NATO Alliance. . – Mr President, of all the issues debated this week there is none that can have a greater impact on the economic wealth of Europe than the reform of competition policy. Fair and open competition is the bedrock on which the single European market is built and on which the growth of European economies depends. That is why we must maintain our determination to root out monopolists and those who engage in shady anti-competitive price fixing or market sharing deals. These actions not only undermine the interests of commercial competitors, they rip off consumers and undermine the dynamic competitive economy on which our future economic interests rely. But we must also recognise that Commissioner Monti’s weapons for tackling such abuses are sadly out of date. The Commission’s White Paper on competition policy reform highlighted the difficulties. The 40 year old procedure under Regulation 17 had become a bureaucratic paper-pushing exercise. The Commission wants radical change, devolving the application of EU competition law to national authorities in order to refocus its efforts in rooting out cartels and the abuse of market power. Parliament agreed with these objectives. But we strongly spelt out our concern on important issues like the need for legal certainty. We also pointed to the possible danger of the reform leading to inconsistent application or even the renationalisation of competition policy, thereby destroying the single market. These were real concerns voiced by many Members of the House as well as significant sectors of the business community throughout Europe. I recognised and shared those worries and some colleagues and representatives of European business still share them today. Nevertheless I believe that Commissioner Monti has genuinely taken account of our concerns and the Commission’s proposal reflects this. Above all I want to draw attention to Article 3 of the regulation, which unambiguously states that in cases affecting trade between Member States it is European competition law that takes precedence. This is a core requirement of the single market and strongly supported by all sides in our committee debates. For us, the preservation of Article 3 is an essential part of this reform. We recognise that there may well be some Member States that will try to dilute its impact. We consider that Article 3 is such a central element of the reform that we will wish to be consulted again if the Council obliges the Commission to make any significant change to this article. We have proposed a number of amendments in order to improve the operation of this radical reform. We found, for instance, little support outside the Bundeskartellamt for the new registration scheme under Article 4, which we consider to be time-wasting and valueless. We want it scrapped. We have proposed a range of amendments to improve legal certainty for business, including the widening of Article 10 – changes which have received widespread business support. We have urged proper safeguards on Commission powers in relation to the application of structural remedies. We have suggested that penalties imposed under EU law by national authorities should be those provided for in EU law. We have also proposed changes in the transitional arrangements and in undertaking a timely review. We have also wrestled with the issue of the appropriate treatment of communications from in-house legal advisers. I am deeply indebted to my colleague, Mr Rovsing, for the attention that he has given to this issue. There are different rules in operation in different parts of the European Union. We have tried to ensure that the professional status of in-house lawyers is acknowledged, whilst not impeding the Commission in the thorough investigation of possible infringements. In the committee vote I indicated that this situation could possibly be resolved by a Commission declaration clarifying the treatment of such evidence in the application of Commission penalties. Mr Rovsing and I now understand that Commissioner Monti may have it in mind to make some such declaration, in which event our group will no longer consider it appropriate to retain Amendment No 10. This debate has also highlighted other important but wider issues of competition policy reform. We welcome the dynamism which Commissioner Monti has brought to his brief. “Supermario”, as he has been labelled in the media, has taken the lead and not only in pressing for radical reform in Europe. He has been at the centre of moves towards the worldwide coordination of competition policy and enforcement. We are sure that in an increasingly global economy such radical reform will be necessary. But we also believe in checks and balances and we want the Commission’s actions to be fully reviewable by the Court of Justice. Our committee thanks Commissioner Monti for his commitment to real and meaningful dialogue. But we reiterate our objective of Parliament moving towards full codecision in respect of these matters. The interest of my parliamentary colleagues in competition policy issues is not just some academic exercise for commercial lawyers. In an increasingly global world we recognise that effective competition is the essential motor for the growth of European economies and the welfare of the people we have been sent here to represent depends on fair and open competition in order to drive that growth forward. Mr President, Commissioner Patten has led a number of telling tributes to Mr Sergio Vieira de Mello and the UN team whose lives were taken by that appalling bombing incident. Today, I want to pay tribute to one of my own constituents, Mr Dewi Pritchard, a man from Bridgend in South Wales, 35 years of age, the father of two children aged six and just 12 months. He was killed just a week ago, the first UK reservist to be killed in this conflict. His role, as a military policeman, was to play a part in the training of the 35 000 Iraqi police officers out of the ultimate target of 65 000. He had worked for nine years for the German-owned Bosch company in South Wales and yet when the call came in June in the post-conflict situation to play his part in reconstruction he willingly went to Iraq and paid for that with his life. His memory is one that we should treasure as well. No one who has witnessed the deaths of coalition troops, the bombing of the UN headquarters building in Baghdad and last week's attack on the mosque in Najaf, could fail to agree that security and stability are now the paramount concerns in Iraq. The coalition forces and the Iraqi Governing Council must have our full support in putting in place the rebuilding of Iraq and the process of transition to democracy. Clearly the United Nations has an important role to play in this process and it is endeavouring to do so. However, calls for the UN to take immediate control of the situation, or even Mr Souchet's suggestion of a withdrawal and leaving it to the Iraqis, only play into the hands of the remnants of the old regime and some other outside forces which are clearly engaged in a campaign of destabilisation. European and UN responsibility should be fully engaged in supporting the process of reconstruction which is currently being taken forward by the coalition forces in Iraq, and the courageous men and women who are taking it forward on our behalf. – Mr President, I just wish to declare that, due to a financial interest which has been registered with the parliamentary authorities, I will not be participating in this vote. – Mr President, I begin by endorsing the plaudits that have been offered to Mrs Haug. She has indeed worked quite hard although, in the case of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, I am afraid she was working so hard that she was not able to pay anything more than a goodwill visit to our committee. Therefore we have prepared the opinion which is before Parliament. I will briefly touch on some of the points that arise from it. Firstly, I want to support the points that are made by Mrs Haug concerning the implications of spending in the Balkans. It is a matter that has been of significant concern to the Industry Committee. We are particularly concerned about the implications for a wide range of the programmes that fall within our remit. It certainly is the case that, with the move to activity-based budgeting, we are moving away from the concept that everything that was previously in the budget has to be preserved for the future. Nonetheless a great deal of the programmes that are within our remit would be significantly affected by the spending proposals for the Balkans, unless Mrs Haug is successful. So on behalf of the Industry Committee I should like to voice our support for her in that regard. In two particular areas we are affected by multiannual programmes. I want to reiterate our commitment in the research area. I recognise that this is not a matter that is affected by the budget on this occasion, but we should not ignore the changes we are seeing in the energy sphere with Save and Altener. The figures that we see are seeing for Save, where there is a significant reduction in the budget for energy efficiency schemes, are a result of the budgetary process last year. That is only just now coming through. The final point I want to make in the trade sphere relates to the need for us to ensure that the omnibus regulation for the transatlantic dialogue is adapted. I hope the Commissioner will take that on board. – Mr President, I should like to begin by making two declarations of interest. The first is that I represent Wales in the European Parliament. Members may know that the risk capital action plan was first adopted at the Cardiff Summit, the capital city of Wales and also the city in which I live. However, a rather more direct financial interest is that I am a director of the National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Company in the UK, one of the UK's top ten insurance companies. I should mention that because some of my remarks will touch upon issues that are relevant in the insurance sector. I congratulate Mr Skinner for the work he has done on this report. It is traditional to say that but, in this instance, I really do value the hard work and commitment that he has given. He is a somewhat solitary figure on that particular side of the House in terms of the need to ensure that we develop the interests of business. Nonetheless, his is a voice that we welcome. His report is one that we welcome. My colleagues and I in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs have made some variations to the report which make it even more acceptable. This report is set within the context – I believe – of some of the failures of the venture capital industry. There have been such failures. The venture capital industry has been too focused on areas where there is already significant financial activity. That is why it is necessary for there to be some guidance in relation to the state aid rules. But I should like to caution Parliament in the light of some of my own experience of the history of the failure of government-sponsored forays into the whole venture capital area. First of all, people imagine that if there is some government-sponsored capital scheme it is bound to mean a guarantee of financial support. Secondly, what are the judgments as to which investments should be backed and which should not? Who is making those judgments? Thirdly, the effect that there can sometimes be in distorting markets and actually driving good competitors out of business. These are some of the cautions there may be. The report we are considering here gets this balance right but we still need to get away from the idea that government, in some sense, can resolve all of these issues. It is important that we deal with the promotion of entrepreneurship. We give too much lip service to this without effectively putting it into operation. In my own country we have Objective I status but getting the people who are involved in putting that plan into operation to recognise the importance of entrepreneurship is very difficult. Very often we have local and regional administrations run by the public sector who just regard this as yet another income stream. So there must be guidance in those areas as well. Finally, I want to make a point about the sources for raising funds. They are pension funds, banks and insurance companies. That is something that is recognised by the Commission and Mr Skinner as well. In this House we have to get away from demonising these organisations. These organisations are the ones that we look to for the funding to create the dynamic economy that we want to develop in Europe. There will be two benefits: we will create new businesses and employment opportunities and we will, at the same time, be funding, very often, income for retirement for European citizens. As a result of that we will be creating a virtuous circle of investment. That is a message that is not heard often enough in this Chamber. . – Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking Mrs Haug for her hard work and her success in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises. That has been a high-order issue for the Committee on Industry, and we are very pleased with the success that she has achieved. However, it is not just a success for the Committee on Industry and for Parliament; it also reflects the priorities of governments in Europe. That is the point that causes me some consternation in relation to the position adopted in this process by the Council. My committee is very interested in the research area. We praised Commissioner Busquin, who has exceeded our expectations in that area. We have heard the Council say on many occasions that it wants to ensure that Europe becomes pre-eminent in research. Then we see the Council make a significant cut in payment appropriations, so that Mrs Haug then has to make some changes. We have heard from the Council today that it is prepared to improve the record by 3.5%. That is the context of the process we are engaged in. I congratulate our rapporteur. However, our committee is somewhat disappointed by the approach of the Council. – Mr President, I just wanted to clarify, for Mr Goebbels' benefit, that I am not raising an issue about individual Members pointing out problems in relation to just their machine or whatever. I am concerned about the possibility of a general failure of numerous machines and rules which would then call the decisions of the House into question. Let me also assure Mr Goebbels that I do not object to matters being decided by a majority of one. The British Labour Government was defeated by a majority of one in 1979 and I never objected to that. – Mr President, it is particularly pleasing for me to make my first speech in the European Parliament on what is regarded as the most important issue within that part of the United Kingdom that I represent in this Parliament, namely Wales. A major part of Wales, as you know, has been granted Objective 1 status under the Structural Funds programme. It is quite clear that many people within Wales are looking to the European Structural Funds programme to alleviate some of the great difficulties that we undoubtedly face. We have seen poverty growing in Wales; and growing still further since 1997. We have seen the gap between rich and poor widen. We are looking, therefore, within the Structural Funds programme not just to see industrial restructuring but also to see a wider improvement in the whole of the economic base within the Principality. What is, however, deeply damaging for us is the belief that in some way the granting of Structural Funds assistance is something that has been, in a sense, a success of the government. It is sadly only a recognition of the very great difficulties that Wales faces. That is why I want to highlight some of the issues that I believe the Commission must have at the forefront. We look to the Commission to deal with points in relation to additionality. We are dissatisfied with the fact that those figures seem to have been in some way hidden within UK figures. We look to the Commission also to ensure that there is matched funding for projects. We look to it to challenge the UK Government, to ensure that the private sector, which surely must be providing the major impetus for Structural Funds expenditure, is involved in the planning stage. Finally, we ask that the Commission ensures that Structural Fund monies are spent in a way which is transparent. Too much of what takes place within this Parliament is not transparent. This is one area in which I believe the Commission can be a very great friend to Wales. Mr President, 172 troops – 34 British and 138 American – gave their lives for the cause of Iraq's freedom during the war. Today certainly, my colleagues and I salute what they and all the coalition forces did to ensure that Iraq could be free. Throughout the debates that we have had on the Iraq crisis, I have made it clear that for us war was always a last resort. If only the nations of the world had united in a determined way, then Saddam, in my view, could have been dealt with without the need for war. Now that the conflict is over, the emphasis is rightly on the stabilisation of Iraq, on the building of civil society, on creating the conditions for a democratic state that can live in peace with its neighbours and also on restoring the Iraqi economy in the interests of the Iraqi people. Of course there are great hurdles to overcome. That is not in dispute. However we should be in no doubt that only the removal of Saddam Hussein has made any of these things possible. The second great task that can now be taken forward is progress towards a durable settlement between Israel and the Palestinians. The road map to peace sponsored by the Quartet offers a solid basis for a resolution of this most difficult of issues in the Middle East: the parties in the wider region, the blueprint for a lasting peace, a secure Israel whose right to exist is recognised by the Arab world, and a Palestinian state living side by side with Israel in harmony and peace. There is much work to be done on both of these projects, but the opportunity is there now for a real and lasting peace to be forged in this vitally important region of the world. As for the wider world, the crisis has created real questions about the United Nations and its ability to implement its own declared intentions. NATO has suffered internal divisions of a kind never before experienced. The European Union has demonstrated that it is incapable of speaking with a single voice, whilst some Member States have shown more interest in creating a counterweight to the United States, than in building a genuine transatlantic partnership based on common values. It is time for some straight talking. The actions of the gang of four at the Brussels summit last month clearly show the strategic error they are making in trying to divide the transatlantic alliance. Whatever soft words they say, this summit was a calculated attempt to foment division between Europe and the USA, and if we have learned anything from the events of recent months it is surely that Europe and America must stand together to deal with threats to our collective security. New structures and new military headquarters in competition with the United States would fracture an alliance that has served us well in Europe. I am glad that the majority of European nations understand this and have had the courage to say so. Finally, if Europe is serious about defence and security, it needs to provide the financial resources. New and divisive structures are not needed. What we need is increased capability. I hope that Europe has learned a lesson from this crisis. NATO and the transatlantic alliance must remain the bedrock of European defence. – Mr President, I congratulate you, President-in-Office, on the progress on enlargement that has been made during the Greek Presidency. The special Athens Council in April was a landmark in the history of Europe, following the collapse of the Berlin Wall, and we look forward to the ten applicant states taking their rightful place in the new Europe. However, if we look at the priorities set by the Greek Presidency, two of them in particular have proved to be something of a disappointment. First the Lisbon process. After three years, this agenda is stalled, indeed it is going backwards. It is disappointing that the presidency has been unable to persuade governments to get their act together on issues which are as fundamental as this to the prosperity of people across Europe. As a result, many EU countries will be facing a future of economic stagnation and deflation. Secondly, the presidency wanted to see the new Europe as an international motor for peace and cooperation. Of course, the Iraq crisis was a difficult one; however, in my view the way in which during the Greek Presidency the 'gang of four' convened in April in Brussels to consider alternative defence structures to NATO merely reinforced anti-American sentiment in Europe. Thessaloniki will mark the end of the European Convention when former president Giscard d'Estaing presents his conclusions, as we have heard during the course of this debate. At Laeken Heads of State and Government said that within the Union, the European institutions must be brought closer to its citizens, but if we look at the draft articles in the Convention document, we find this ambition has not been achieved. Indeed in many ways it heads in precisely the opposite direction. The Convention is proposing a European Union which, in my view, is more centralised, more bureaucratic, in many ways less democratic and certainly more federalist than is currently the case. I am well recognised in my country as a longstanding supporter of Britain's committed membership of the European Union, but the document that Heads of Government are likely to see in Thessaloniki is one that changes the nature of the relationship between Member States and the European Union. In summary: a Constitution, incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, legal status for the Union, a President, a Foreign Minister, the collapse of the second and third pillars, a common foreign security policy, the eventual framing of an EU defence policy, the requirement that both economic policies and taxation be harmonised and the establishment of a European public prosecutor. The British Government has been calling all this in the UK just a tidying-up exercise and therefore not worth putting to the people in a referendum. In contrast the Danish Prime Minister has made it clear that he will be submitting the Constitution to a referendum, because the EU Constitution is so new and large a document that it would be right to hold a referendum on it. I can tell this House that 80% of the British public agree. This is not just a case of the British Government dismissing the right of its own people to have a say on their future, it is rather that the Convention proposals fundamentally change the relationship between the Union and Member States and the way in which we are all governed. For those who cherish the concept of a United States of Europe, the blueprint set out in this Convention is based on this fundamental fact, and this has been honestly and sincerely articulated by President Prodi and many speakers in this debate today. When the Inter-Governmental Conference begins its work later this year, my party is determined to see that the accession states not only have a right to contribute to the discussion, but have a vote in the Council on the crucial decisions that it will take. The outcome of the IGC will impact on the people of Warsaw, Prague and Budapest, just as much as London, Paris and Berlin, and it is outrageous that they should in any way be excluded from having a proper and democratic role in the outcome. Finally I say this; we have long been the most ardent supporters of enlargement and the right of accession states to take their place at the European top table, but our Europe is one where diversity is celebrated, not one where countries are forced into an institutional straitjacket. We want a Europe that is democratic and prosperous and works with the United States to defend our freedoms and confront common threats. The Convention takes us down a different road to a Europe where the nation state is no longer the foundation upon which the Union rests. – Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Riis-Jørgensen for her contribution and for her cooperation in relation to these two reports. They have been taken in joint debate because common issues apply. I endorse much of the agenda that has been set by Mrs Riis-Jørgensen. I should like to begin somewhat unusually by congratulating the Commission on a document it published back in June 1999 – the Community rules on state aid, what I might call the "idiot's guide" to the operation of the state aid scheme. It is helpful in that it sets out the Treaty provisions, the definitions of state aid and also the exemptions from the ban on state aid. In the course of preparing my report, I have had to struggle with that particular conundrum. There are those in this House who will wish to emphasise the exemptions; however, I wish to make it clear that for the most part the operation of state aid works against free competition within a single market. The single market is essential in terms of promoting the interests of consumers. They must have a wide variety of high-quality, competitively priced goods and that, ultimately, is the reason for pushing forward with the single market and, along with it, free competition, because it is to the benefit of all our citizens. Turning now to the eighth survey: although there has been a reduction in the overall level of state aid during the period concerned, this can in fact be attributed to a minority of Member States and, taken overall, ten Member States have seen levels of state aid increase. I know that is a matter of concern to the Commissioner and it is certainly a concern I share. I therefore welcome the indications we have received from the Commissioner that he anticipates that by July of next year we will be seeing progress in relation to the delivery of a state aid scoreboard and register. That is important in terms of the need for transparency. I would ask him how he sees the debate on enlargement in view of the fact that, on the one hand, we must ensure that we have a common regime across all states within the European Union and, on the other hand, it must be the case that some of the candidate countries have particular difficulties in adjusting to new open market conditions. I would also make the point to Commissioner Monti that it is important that in the next survey we see a rather larger section on the financial services sector. I should like to congratulate him on a speech he made in Barcelona in September – and I am very grateful to his staff for sending a copy of the speech to me – devoted as it was to his view on the synergy between state aid control and the financial services sector. But in due course we must see rather more of that in the state aid report itself. I also would wish to see changes in the way that the state aid report is put together in order to ensure it is able to take account of future developments. For instance, during the period of time of this report, no state aid was given to the coal sector in the UK and yet we all know that significant aid is currently being proposed by the UK Government. I should like to say in that context that I am very strongly of the view, as is the steel industry in very many parts of the European Union, that the steel aid code, which it is not planned to extend beyond 2002, needs to remain in place in order that all businesses are aware, in the current difficult circumstances for the steel industry, that a strict regime will be applied within the European Union, which is not discriminatory as between one country and another. I take this opportunity to ask the Commissioner for some information regarding two cases within the United Kingdom where the Commission has currently instituted action – if indeed it is the case that action has been instituted. There are the cases of the universal bank proposed by the UK Government to assist post offices in the UK and also the venture capital schemes in the regions of the United Kingdom. I understand he has asked for information concerning this. It is quite clear that throughout the report itself much attention has been directed not just to the past but also to Commissioner Monti’s proposals for future reform of competition policy. That is an issue which will be coming before Parliament in due course. Commissioner Monti will be very well aware of the concerns that are shared by many people who support his proposals for reform but feel that there need to be answers in relation to issues like jurisdiction shopping, legal certainty, the role of national courts, dialogue between the national competition authorities and the Commission itself, as also issues of staffing within the Commission. Those are matters that we will consider in debates in due course and for which – I am delighted to inform the Commission – I have been appointed Parliament’s rapporteur. . Conservative MEPs and MEPs from the Moderate Party believe that the financial perspective should be decided upon by Member States in unanimity and that the European Parliament should not be involved in this process. However, once the financial perspective has been fixed, we believe that the European Parliament and the Council should have an equal say in deciding how the money should be spent. – Madam President, I should like to challenge some of the assertions that have been made by Mr Rapkay. Firstly, there is very much more that unites us on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs than you would think from some of the assertions he has just made. We can see that from the report that we are considering. There are 22 paragraphs in this report. Mr Rapkay had only six areas where his report was significantly amended. We have six amendments to consider tomorrow. Let us look at the things that unite us. I certainly do not believe that state aid is the work of the devil. In a sense that was excessive rhetoric on the part of Mr Rapkay. We actually both believe in a competitive Europe. We are in favour of making our economy competition-friendly. Mr Rapkay's excellent report – which I will support in its current form tomorrow – is a consistent report building on the one produced by the committee last year. Of course there will be some differences of emphasis between us. We do not all share the same political outlook. But there is a trend in relation to the views that have been forward by the Economic Committee which are at the core of Mr Rapkay's report and for which I congratulate him. Yes, I certainly believe in the rigorous application of state aid. I congratulate Commissioner Monti for the stance that he has taken in this area. It is something that broadly reflects the position of our Economic Committee. Our committee is committed to taking forward the Lisbon process. Building a competitive Europe must be a part of that, so it is important that we have proper state aid control. Part of that is through the transparency that comes from the State Aid Scoreboard, of which Mr Rapkay has been a keen exponent. He has raised the issue consistently. We are delighted that Commissioner Monti has made progress in this area. There is more work to be done in developing the scoreboard. I am not absolutely sure that the Competition DG competition is at the front of the queue in terms of the Internet-friendly nature of its particular website. I am absolutely confident that more progress will be made. I went on to the Internet the other day to find out about the Competition Day that is coming up. It was not a particularly friendly site to deal with. I should like to mention the Steel Aid Code. I have consistently said to Commissioner Monti that the industry is looking for guidance here. We want the current regime to stay in place in some format. I hope that Commissioner Monti will feel after mature reflection that, given the difficulties with the United States of America, that is something he could support. . – Mr President, perhaps I can begin by saying the introduction of the title of our debate no doubt had many  journalists salivating, but the issues that we are considering are fundamental issues that go to the heart of what the European Union is all about. That is the development of a true, single market; because if we were able to achieve a true, single market, not only might we find more unanimity within this Chamber, but we should be well on the way to serving our constituents by ensuring that we achieve real economic progress in Europe. Therefore, this particular piece of legislation falls within that context. There are a number of ways in which competition policy is important in driving this agenda forward. The Commissioner, and I congratulate him for it, has seized the initiative in terms of the application of state-aid policy; we will be debating that in the second session in Strasbourg in connection with another report which I am currently taking before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. The other major area that Commissioner Monti has been busy with is the modernisation of competition policy itself. We are awaiting the outcome of the Commissioner’s review of over 100 responses to his White Paper on the reform of restrictive trade practices and the abuse of market power. Earlier today I heard that we may receive the result before the end of this month; perhaps we will hear more from the Commissioner about that in due course. The reform that we are looking at, according to the Commission itself, forms part of the overall agenda of reform. Within that context, I want to say to the Commissioner that business is looking for a number of things. It is certainly looking for the things that the Commission was seeking consultees from about whether the current regulations have become too legalistic, too bureaucratic and could be simplified. I have no doubt that the Commissioner’s proposals will achieve that simplification. Business is looking for the development of confidence in the whole range of new mechanisms which the Commissioner is seeking to bring forward as part of its overall reform package. I would therefore ask the Commission how he sees this specific reform, which is not controversial, in the context of his wider reform of competition policy which, as he well knows, might be generously said to be slightly more controversial. May I turn to some of the detailed areas in the particular proposals that the Commission has asked Parliament to comment upon. Firstly, I welcome this process. The Commissioner is inviting Parliament to express its views in relation to the paper that was produced in April of this year. In essence there are a number of areas where, having agreed with the thrust of the reform being taken forward, I feel that the Commission might give the matter further thought. Firstly, I would like the Commissioner to explain why there is a contrast between the treatment of horizontal restraints and vertical restraints. I would like the Commissioner to indicate whether, in due course, it is his intention to see further exemption categories specified in the legislation. I have indicated that businesses are strongly of the view that the duration of exemption in the cases of research and development should be expanded up to a period of ten years. Since the Commission’s own papers make it clear that horizontal cooperation agreements are generally not made in order to work against the interests of consumers, I would be grateful to see what the Commissioner’s response is in that particular area. I would also be grateful to have clarification of the position regarding trade supplies, not least because that is an issue that troubles Mr Berenguer Fuster. I know he has tabled amendments in relation to that. I am particularly concerned to ensure that we take all steps to avoid a re-nationalisation of EU competition law and I would be grateful to hear what reassurances we can have from the Commissioner in that area. Finally, business would prefer a lengthier transition period; they would also prefer the Commission to look at more than just the market share in assessing market power. For these purposes what the Commission proposes may be appropriate, but deciding market power solely by assessing market share is too inexact a science. Mr President, I want to express my admiration for what I thought was a stylish and rather teasing address from Mr Roche on whether there has really been considerable movement on the IGC issues. We have been reading about the Spanish and Polish Governments possibly shifting their positions, with similar reports about the German Government. The UK press is now saying that Mr Blair and Mr Berlusconi are writing joint letters together – there's friendship for you! – and now we understand that Mr Blair is travelling to Dublin tomorrow for talks with the Taoiseach. As Mr Napoletano said earlier in the debate, it is all very frustrating and unclear for those of us who are outside. All this underlines the importance of restating the demand for democratic legitimacy, something which was conceded by Vice-President Kinnock in the course of his address. I see that as coming through the process of a referendum. Mr Barón Crespo told us that 51% of UK citizens want this Constitution. I might doubt that but, unlike his Labour allies, I am very happy to have the matter tested in a referendum. I can tell you, Mr President, that more than 80% of people in my country agree. Mr President, I want to associate my party and our 37 members here in the European Parliament with the words of the Council communiqué expressing sympathy and solidarity with the victims of the terrorist attacks in Madrid, with their families and with the Spanish people. On Lisbon, I welcome many of the points in the Council statement: the need for substantial structural reform, the completion of the internal market, better regulation and sharing of best practice. However, current European economies remain so restrictive and inflexible that progress will be hard to achieve. There remains, I must say, a deafening silence on our own inability to reduce the tide of regulation, which gravely damages our competitiveness and destroys jobs. Good intentions, sadly, are no substitute for practical measures. On the Constitution, Mr Watson and Mr Duff's party leader in the UK has joined my party in calling for a UK referendum on a Constitution. On Monday in the House of Commons he argued that a Constitution was needed in order to define and make clear the limits of EU power. The question, he said, is: does this Constitution have constitutional implications? The answer he gave was an unequivocal 'yes'. You have argued, Taoiseach, that Member State governments must show flexibility and compromise on all sides – I noted your words. However, in that very same debate Mr Blair said that the issues of tax, social security, the UK abatement, foreign policy, defence, and criminal justice are all parts of our nationhood, and we will be insisting upon them. Therefore there are two further questions. Firstly, on asylum and immigration in that debate, Mr Blair assured the people of Britain that it was absolute rubbish to suggest that the EU would have any role in determining any policy decisions or laws in this area. Secondly, on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, he assured the British people that the European Court of Justice would have no jurisdiction whatsoever to enforce this Charter or the rights that were expressed within it. I think it is a rather different legal situation and would be grateful for your view. It is hardly surprising, when our Prime Minister denies that a Constitution for the EU has any constitutional implications, that people find it rather difficult to trust him. That is why my party says that we should trust the people and have a referendum. – Madam President, I am delighted to at least have the opportunity of contributing to this debate on behalf of the PPE, and firstly to congratulate Mr Berenguer Fuster for the work that he has done in relation to this report. I recognise that his report is quite brief, but that belies the amount of work that has had to be undertaken because the issue that we are considering is a complex one as he made clear in the course of his remarks. We are dealing in essence with the compromise between access to confidential information, information which comes into the hands of a whole range of regulatory authorities, and the use that is subsequently made of that information. We know that the information is in general gathered as a result of the obligations that rest with companies from the whole of the inspection regime. We have a range of regulators now, across the whole of the European Union, but we very often have a whole range of regulators within Member States themselves, and the dilemma of how information is in fact used is one that is not just a dilemma for the Community and its exchange of information with regulators beyond the Community itself. We often have that dilemma within Member States. I certainly have had first-hand experience of government in the United Kingdom where I can remember very many instances where the government has been on the point of granting a contract to a particular company only to find out that another branch of government is actually engaged in starting legal proceedings for one reason or another against that very company. This is often described as the left arm of government not knowing what the right arm is doing, but what it is really about is the willingness on the part of the regulatory authorities within Member States, but also within the European Union and beyond, to exchange information whilst at the same time respecting confidentiality. That brings me to the second brief point that I wish to make this evening which is about the need for the consolidation of regulatory authorities themselves. That is a process that has been undertaken within the United Kingdom. Recently, Howard Davies, who heads the new Financial Services Authority in the UK, was speaking to our Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee and outlining what that experience has been. It has not been a wholly easy experience, but I think that people are broadly of the view that the consolidation of regulatory authorities within the United Kingdom has been a success. It is something that could be commended to other authorities within the European Union, not least because it would lead to a common approach to the use of the information that is made available by this process, to the advantage of investors throughout the whole of the European Union itself. Mr President, the Athens Accession Treaty signed on 16 April was a historic landmark in the history of Europe. Since the fall of the Berlin Wall my party has been consistent and determined in its support for the enlargement of the Union, and we unreservedly welcome the positive results of the referendums that have already taken place in many of the accession states. However, we are less supportive of the presidency in other respects. On Iraq, the damage to transatlantic relations arising from the 'gang of four' summit, attended by Germany, France, Belgium and Luxembourg, also severely undermined NATO. At a time when many of our citizens in Europe are facing economic stagnation and deflation, there has sadly been little progress in advancing the Lisbon agenda of economic structural reform. Instead, we have seen that we again prefer to devote most of our time to institutional reform, whilst persuading ourselves that this is the sort of progress that European citizens are crying out for. I doubt it. The presidency conclusions begin by stating that the Convention was successful in bringing our Union closer to its citizens, strengthening our Union's democratic character, enhancing our Union's ability to act as a coherent and unified force in the international system. I fear that such warm, optimistic rhetoric is little more than that. The results of the Convention's work have again shown the inability of a European political elite to reflect the real concerns of the people of Europe. We are asked to believe that what our citizens really want is an EU with a legal personality, a legally binding Charter of Fundamental Rights, the removal of the pillar structure, an extension of majority voting, an EU president and foreign minister, common asylum and immigration policies and a European public prosecutor – in short, that people want a fundamental change in the relationship between the Union and its people. The British Prime Minister's now infamous view that the Convention is merely a tidying-up exercise has attracted derision from Eurosceptic and Europhile alike. I repeat today that the people of the United Kingdom have a right to a referendum on this constitutional treaty, just as other Member States intend to do. If the governments of the Union really wish to bring their citizens closer to the Union, then it is in their interests and those of their people to ensure that referendums are held in order to legitimise what is being proposed in their name. My party believes in a different kind of Europe: a Europe where the nation state is the fundamental building block of cooperation and intergovernmentalism is preferable to one-way integration, which I fear is being reinforced by the Convention. It is a different kind of Europe to the integrationist agenda, but it is no less European for that. I wish the Convention had chosen this route. I hope that the governments of the Union look afresh at the results of the Convention when the Intergovernmental Conference begins its work. Finally, I noted that the presidency adds that the accession countries will participate in the Intergovernmental Conference on an equal footing with current Member States. I hope that means that they will be given the same voting rights as Member States. It would be outrageous for the IGC to conclude a new constitutional structure for Europe just weeks in advance of accession and try to present this as a done deal. No democrat should put up with that. – Mr President, I would like to point out that the British Conservative delegation in the European Parliament voted against the Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado report because of a number of aspects it contains with which we do not agree. I will not take up the time of the House by going through the details. We would have voted for it if it had in any way impinged upon the right of the Gibraltar inhabitants to participate in the next European Parliament elections. The minutes statement that is attached to this report from the UK Government makes it clear that it is the UK Government's sole responsibility to ensure that the legislation is put in place for Gibraltarians to vote in those elections. I would like to take this brief opportunity to urge the UK Government to live up to that minutes statement and put that legislation in place so that Gibraltarians are able to participate in the electoral process electing representatives who will have an influence over laws which apply in Gibraltar. Mr President, I felt obliged to vote for the motion of censure because of the Commission's incompetence and lack of financial control as manifested in the whole Eurostat affair. It is indeed bizarre that the only person detained in connection with this sorry episode is the journalist who exposed it. I also took the opportunity to register my disapproval of the way the Commission has deliberately ignored the will of this House with regard to aid for hospitals in Belarus, which are woefully ill-equipped to treat the cancers – particularly in children – which have occurred as a direct result of the Chernobyl disaster. Two years running we voted to allocate resources from underspent budget lines to buy this much-needed equipment. So far not one penny has arrived. My constituents in Scarborough and Whitby and I are appalled that money languishes in accounts in Brussels when children are dying of diseases that could be treated. – Mr President, earlier this year I visited Galicia to see the environmental catastrophe that was the wreck of the . The only word to describe it is devastation. In particular it was very distressing to see the seabirds; the endangered Galician guillemot is even more seriously threatened now because of this. It is true that mistakes were made in the early stages and a lot of these mistakes were due to confusion between the regional and national governments. I am concerned that this inquiry will not be constructive but will be used by the Left in Spain as a stick to beat the government. We already know the facts, we do not need a post-mortem. We need rapid action to ban rust-buckets like the  and we also need to defend sensitive coastlines, for example the Beverley and Holderness coastline in my region. That is the reason we voted against this report. – Mr President, beef labelling has two distinct functions. Firstly, traceability in the case of a food safety incident – the recent E. coli outbreak in Scotland for example – and, secondly, to give consumers information about the origin of beef at the point of sale. The two should not be confused. For traceability we need maximum information made available to the authorities as and when required but the consumer label should be simple, concise and unambiguous. The need for information sprang from the BSE crisis. Member States have differing levels of BSE incidence but there are also variations in the measures to eradicate the disease and protect human health. Although the United Kingdom has the highest incidence of BSE, it also has the most comprehensive control measures. Other countries, which admittedly have lower declared levels of BSE, operate a whole-herd slaughter policy which entails the risk of the under-reporting of cases. Therefore people want to know which country their beef comes from. Reference to regions should not be an alternative to country of origin but a voluntary addition. Even regions like Yorkshire, Britain’s premier region and coincidentally the region I represent, are not known by every citizen throughout the EU. From a marketing and promotional point of view smaller areas and localities could be used, as well as regional breeds such as Aberdeen Angus. The well established description of Scotch beef should continue to be used. Small traditional butcher shops that sell beef unpackaged should be allowed to display information as an alternative to labelling each item. Many consumers would be confused if given information about hanging or maturation, which could be mixed up with sell-by dates in their minds. I would draw attention particularly to Amendment No 41 which seeks to exclude farmers from Community aid schemes if the regulation is not strictly adhered to. I have already had cases drawn to my attention regarding other EU schemes where honest errors by farmers, who are not professional bureaucrats, have resulted in punitive sanctions which often threaten the future of a family farm. We should not go down this road. The listing of antibiotics and stimulants that might have been administered would, if adopted, create a two-tier beef market. Animal welfare would be compromised as farmers would be reluctant to treat animals therapeutically. Similarly, reference to fattening methods should not be introduced. I hope that in amending this regulation Parliament can for once simplify rather than embellish and make the labelling of beef consumer-, butcher- and farmer-friendly. – You said that the precautionary principle should not be used as a disguised trade barrier. Is the understanding of this point the same on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean? I think we are going to have problems particularly with hormone-treated beef and genetically modified crops. Will the Americans take the same view of this point as we do? Mr President, a number of amendments to the budget were adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. A main objective was to restore or increase the budgets of the agencies on which we rely to carry out statutory and other tasks set by Parliament, namely those of the European Medicines Evaluation Agency, the European Environment Agency and the fledgling European Food Safety Authority. New tasks are continually being delegated to these agencies and it is vital that they are adequately resourced. Secondly, once again we expose the hypocrisy of a European Union that pays lip-service to health promotion by combating smoking-related diseases but continues to pour EUR 1 billion per annum into subsidising the production of low-quality tobacco, much of which is exported to developing countries. How can this be justified? Lastly I turn to CAP reform. European Union and US farmers are subsidy junkies and although the agreement does not spell an end to this transatlantic addiction, it may be a step in the right direction. We applaud moves from direct aid to aid linked to environmental objectives, but we know very well that many environmental directives are not being complied with. For example, the Nitrates Directive, despite being 13 years old, is only being complied with in two Member States. Does Commissioner Fischler foresee individual farmers, regions or Member States having their cheques cut back because of this non-compliance? Are we only paying lip-service to a link between the CAP and a cleaner, better environment? – Mr President, I am very pleased that the political groups have reached a compromise position on this report, which actually consists of two reports rolled into one. I am sorry that at the beginning of the negotiations I had to be so inflexible and stubborn, but I am pleased to say that once the Greens, for once, started to talk sense, we could also show some flexibility. With the Council's acceptance of this compromise, the measures contained in this report can be brought into force without delay. We have come together on three important issues: firstly, on the issue of cement. Nobody argues with the fact that hexavalent chromium causes dermatitis but, of course, we must not forget that only 50% of dermatitis cases are linked to this particular cause. As the rapporteur has said, dosing cement with ferrous sulphate counteracts this problem. The initial suggestion from the Commission was that we should limit this dosing to cement used for manual use. But the whole of Parliament agreed this was very hard to define as even, for example, when one is pouring a large motorway bridge or laying a large floor, there is a certain amount of manual work involved in grouting or finishing. The compromise we came to was only to exempt uses in closed industrial applications, for example, the manufacture of concrete blocks, concrete lintels or other products of that type. The second issue regarding cement was the risks of long-term exposure. The rapporteur has talked about the carcinogenic and mutagenic problems of chromium-6 but, of course, nobody is realistically suggesting that the levels of chromium-6 in cement pose a risk. However, we need to look at the problem without raising undue concerns which would worry the workers in this industry and make the insurance industry very cagey indeed. It is important that we set limit values and that we do so in a sensible way, although we already have limit values set in the United Kingdom. On the issue of nonylphenol, this is an aquatic pollutant, and although many in the committee tried to talk about health risks and bring in other factors, we must concentrate on the case at hand, which is making sure that nonylphenol does not reach water courses and is banned in applications where there is no alternative. We need exceptions and the problem of using nonylphenol ethoxylate as a co-formulant in pesticides is one that we addressed. The compromise is to allow existing pesticides to continue until the end of their licensing period, but it will be banned in new pesticides. Incidentally, we still allow them to be used in spermicides in condom production where there is no alternative. I am pleased that we reached an agreement and avoided a second reading and possible conciliation. – Mr President, this report was also voted under Rule 110a of the Rules of Procedure which allows for no debate and no amendments to the report. The British delegation of the PPE-DE Group has previously sought to amend reports which it did not support. The new rule, however, leaves us no option but to vote against certain reports. Most of this report represents the very worse of politically correct claptrap. Women are increasingly achieving more top positions in society and this will continue to improve as, in my country at least, women are more successful than men in gaining university places. We do not support quotas or interference in the ways in which trades unions, for example, select their officers. The Committee on Women's Affairs and Equal Opportunities talks about gender mainstreaming whilst at the same time its very existence contradicts this principle. – I am afraid I cannot agree with Mr Corbett's point about the votes in this plenary. There are many committees in this Parliament, which do not have representation from every Member State. Therefore we will find those people will be disenfranchised and that is becoming a greater problem as the European Union enlarges. We must have the opportunity for members from every Member State to be able to vote on these reports and on these important amendments. – Mr President, could I first of all thank Mrs Paulsen for the constructive way in which she has conducted the dialogue between the groups to come up with some compromise amendments? I am pleased that my group has been able to sign all the compromise amendments, with the exception of Compromise Amendment No 25. We very much support the ban on the use of catering waste in animal feed, not least because the likely cause of the foot and mouth disease outbreak in the United Kingdom was the use of pigswill as feed. I am also pleased to see that catering waste from abroad, such as may come from aeroplanes landing in our country, has been upgraded to category 1. However, two problems emerge from this situation. The first is the use of used cooking oil in the United Kingdom as animal feed. Unfortunately, we will not be able to hide this oil behind the piles of fridges currently found in my own country and I am afraid that much of this oil will find its way into the drains of the country, causing environmental damage and also, I suggest, public health problems as it congeals and solidifies in the sewers of our major cities. We also have a problem in Germany, where there are centralised plants for treating catering waste, unlike the on-farm situation in the UK, which was not very satisfactory. Many of these installations are brand new and run according to the highest standards with typical German efficiency. We should recognise the situation in Germany and Austria and allow an extension on the use of some of these brand new plants. That is why I am pleased to support Amendment No 10, which was proposed in committee by Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf and calls for the Commission to come up with a legislative proposal by June 2002 requiring Member States to supply proof that these plants can operate safely. Compromise Amendment No 25 contradicts this because it calls for a four-year extension on the use of these plants. If, as I have been advised, the authors of the original amendment were to propose an oral amendment stating that this new legislative proposal could come forward in four years' time, then this would avoid such a contradiction. That would be a good way forward and my group would be prepared to support such a move. On the issue of sludge, could I ask the Commissioner to clarify the situation? We have many slaughterhouses and meat processing plants that discharge effluent into domestic sewage systems in our major towns. Although this process involves some initial filtration, there is no way that one could describe this discharge as sterile: it contains pathogens of all sorts. Determining that the sludge from the sewage treatment plants in these large cities had to be incinerated under this directive would place unacceptable costs on slaughterhouses. The European Union has already been responsible for the closure of many slaughterhouses and, in fact, in many cases, there would be no space for separate sewage treatment facilities. Therefore, could I ask the Commissioner to make it quite clear on the record that the primary filtration products of these plants would be covered, but that the sludge from sewage treatment would not have to be incinerated and could be spread on the land as before? – Mr President, this report was voted under Rule 110a of the Rules of Procedure, which allows for no debate in Parliament and no amendments to the report. The British delegation of the PPE-DE Group has previously sought to amend reports which it did not support. The new rule, however, leaves no option but to vote against certain reports. The British Conservatives deplore violence of any kind and welcome measures to combat this, including some of the initiatives under the Daphne programme. Violence, especially against women or children, is completely unjustifiable and cannot be accepted. However, the measures called for in Article 18 of the Avilés Perea report represent an infringement of the Member States' right to determine their own criminal justice systems and represent measures to introduce harmonisation of criminal law. The calls for a specific European legal base infringe the principle of subsidiarity. We strongly believe that national parliaments and not the European Parliament should lay down laws relating, for example, to eviction of violent partners. Whilst accepting that good work is being carried out by the Daphne programme, the British Conservatives are opposed to the principles of the report, for the reasons outlined. . – Madam President, first of all could I put on record my thanks to Mr Bowe who was the budget rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment for the first half of the mandate. The general approach to the discharge procedure is to look at the percentage of the budget line that is spent. If 95% or more is spent then a tick is put beside that item. If less than 80% is spent there is a black mark. But if we have the information at our disposal we should look more carefully at the achievement of goals with this money, rather than purely the fact that the money has been spent. For example, on the fifth environment action plan only 70% of the budget was spent. The reason for this is that there were not sufficient good projects; in fact some calls had no response at all. We should not give money to bad projects. However, there is one slight caveat to that: I hope our bidding systems are not becoming so bureaucratic that some potential bidders with good projects are put off from bidding at all. I will mention public health budget line B3-4301 on combating cancer. In 1999 there was a substantial under-spend on that and I am pleased to see that in 2000 it was almost fully committed including the overhang from 1999. It would be verging on the criminal not to deploy resources allocated for combating diseases such as cancer. It is true that the environment budget of EUR 200 million – that is GBP 125 million – was only half spent in the year 2000. The reason for this was the Life projects, which make up half this budget, and which could not be spent in 2000 because the legal basis was not determined in conciliation until July 2000. I am pleased to see that the five-year project has been telescoped into a four-year project instead. Despite the substantial under spending in the budget that is largely due to the Life III lines, and bearing in mind that the Court of Auditors have not voiced concerns, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy recommends that discharge be granted in respect of the 2000 budget for the budget lines within its competence. .  Mr President, we are all familiar with the principle of substitution, the substitution of a more environmentally friendly or more healthy product for another one which is environmentally damaging or damaging to health. In many ways the use of fluorinated gases has already exhibited the principle of substitution, given that many applications that were previously used with CFCs have been substituted with HFCs. As we know, CFCs are much more environmentally damaging than HFCs, being ozone-depleting gases which we have very successfully grappled with under the auspices of the Montreal Protocol. HFCs are greenhouse gases like CO2 and, as the Commissioner said, whatever action we take on control of fluorinated gases, it cannot be at the expense of the action we need to take to control CO2. HFCs are a drop in the ocean in relation to CO2. First of all I would like to make a point about the legal base. There has been much discussion about this, but I am firmly of the opinion that Article 95, the single market, is the correct legal base. If we were to use Article 175 it would make marketing of products containing these gases almost impossible across the whole of the European Union. Whilst I understand the situation, for example, in Austria, where they have gone further, in the interests of the single market we should maintain the legal base. There are a number of applications of HFCs, from air conditioning to air-sole trainers and to aerosol fake snow, for example, which we had a little bit of fun about in the press at Christmas. But this proposal is primarily about containment, not banning. In fact there are a number of applications where no alternative is possible, for example fire protection and the use of sulphur hexafluoride in switch gear. If we were to go along with one of the proposals that the Verts/ALE Group made, the lights would go out all over Europe! With regard to vehicle air conditioning – and it is one side-effect of global warming that more people have air conditioning in their cars – the proposal was to replace HFC134a, with a global warming potential of 1300, with the more environmentally benign HFC152a, with a global warming potential of 140. I can see people in the gallery already nodding off, and that is why Parliament decided that we should take a bold step to actually phase out the use of HFCs in air conditioning and substitute them with the new developing technology involving CO2. Under the Commission's proposal there was a very complex quota system which looked as if it should start in 2009. In practice, however, as 20% of the vehicle fleets of most manufacturers are not fitted with air conditioning, these manufacturers would have met the first step of the quota system without doing anything. So actually the Commission's proposal would have started in 2010. The quota system is complex and would only have worked very well with a company that had a range of products which fitted conveniently into these 20% steps. Most manufacturers do not have a product line-up that fits in quite that way. And of course there was a massive loophole in the whole system, a loophole big enough to drive a Rolls Royce through, in that manufacturers could as an alternative pay a 200 euro fine for not complying with the directive. I suspect the manufacturers of some large expensive cars would do that rather than spend money on re-engineering. We also have the fact that HFC152a is flammable, which may cause some problems with regard to safety. That was not the final solution, and we think that using CO2, maybe a little bit later, would be a much more effective compromise. That is why I am very pleased that the PSE Group has prevailed on me and made me see sense and that we have Compromise Amendment No 112, which says that, based on type-approval, we should phase out the use of HFCs and substitute with CO2 from 2012, with a two-year exemption, or two-year delay at least, for some of the smaller manufacturers – what we call the Porsche exemption –, moving towards CO2, which is a much better goal, not only environmentally, but politically too. We also need some changes to the first line of Annex 2, which I am sure the sessional services will take care of if the compromise amendment goes through, substituting '50' for the global warming potential and putting type-approval in. Not all air conditioning systems are mobile: some of them are in stationary applications such as buildings like this one. This monstrous waste of taxpayers' money is cooled using HFCs! In the case of buildings, it is important that we control leakage, and inspection and control of leakages are included in the Commission's proposal, which we support. But we should also reward good practice by reducing the number of inspections where leakage is not occurring, as well as stepping up the number of inspections where we have leaks. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Lange and Mrs Corbey for making me see sense, and Mr Davies for finally coming round to our way of thinking. It has been a very interesting journey and I just hope that the people in the gallery do not think we spend all our time talking about these boring technical subjects. – Mr President, the European Parliament has produced a comic strip book, entitled , to inform young people about the workings of the European Parliament. The heroine of this book is a raven-haired, stunningly good-looking Member of the European Parliament of indeterminate nationality who single-handedly takes on the evil chemical industry. Now, there has been much speculation in the European Parliament as to who might be the model for Irina Vega, with our rapporteur being the most widely mentioned. Now, of course,  is not set in the real world. I am afraid that having read Kathleen Van Brempt's report, I think she has lost touch with the realities of modern agriculture. No farmer uses pesticides for fun – after all, they are expensive. Setting a reduction target at 50% is too simplistic, as we should be targeting the most toxic products, not those with a higher dose rate, as the Commissioner rightly said at the beginning. Of course, the European Union has turned its back on the new GM technology which has dramatically reduced the reliance on pesticides by our friends and allies on the other side of the Atlantic. Levies on pesticides will fall heavily on the new expensive products, which by and large cause less ecological concern than some of the older, cheaper, off-patent products. We all want to reduce our reliance on chemicals in agriculture but I regret that this report does not give us the solutions we want. Incidentally, if Parliament is to do a sequel to , maybe next time it should also feature our Commissioner. – Mr President, just for the benefit of Members regarding the last statement made by Mr McMillan-Scott. If they do not come from the United Kingdom the words "BBC" do not stand for Blair's Broadcasting Corporation, but many of us seem to think it does. – Mr President, the British Conservatives today reluctantly voted against the Blokland report on the establishment of a Community framework for noise classification of civil subsonic aircraft for the purposes of calculating noise charges. This is because Amendment No 8 was adopted, reintroducing the concept that Parliament rejected last year – setting noise target values and charges for airports rather than just for aircraft. Whilst aircraft move around the European Union, airports clearly do not and therefore airport noise charges and related land planning issues are matters for Member States under the principle of subsidiarity. – I should like to give an explanation of vote on behalf of the British Conservative Group, the European Democrat wing of the EPP, and say why we oppose the regulation being extended to agricultural tractors. The primary reason for this directive is not to control atmospheric pollution itself as we inhale it but to actually reduce the effect that sulphur dioxide has on advanced catalytic systems. Tractors are not fitted with these systems so it would be pointless to extend this regulation to tractors. It would result in more carbon dioxide being produced in the refineries and also a 10% increase in the price of fuel for farmers. So although we welcome this report as tabled we could not support the amendments on tractors and, therefore, as those amendments went through we voted against the report as a whole. I hope that the rapporteur, Commission and Council will take note of the fact that they were at least 70 votes short of a qualified majority for second reading. – Mr President, legislation which seeks to protect the public from a terrible brain disease such as new variant CJD should be drafted to complement measures already in place in Member States, to recognise the stage of the epidemic that we are at and have due regard to the body of scientific knowledge we have built up. The United Kingdom already has comprehensive and effective measures in place to protect human health and eradicate BSE in our herd. This is working. Cases of BSE are declining rapidly. But most importantly, so far, we have not had a case in an animal born since the complete feed ban was introduced. That should be happening around about now, if it was going to. No older animals over 30 months of age enter the food chain. It is likely that cases may occur due to maternal transmission but these will be isolated and not feed-related, and there is no justification for a return to cohort culling. Incidentally – and Mrs Grossetête referred to this – there has been recent press speculation about a third possible infection route through grass contaminated by faecal material. This only applies – as I understand – to animals excreting pathogens ingested with contaminated feed, not, as some newspapers inferred, from animals incubating or suffering from this disease. I am concerned about the practicality and cost of having to post-mortem all animals for which the cause of death is unknown. Very large numbers of animals die of natural causes or common ailments. BSE is a degenerative disease which does not cause sudden death anyway. Amendment No 26 seeks universally to impose the whole-herd slaughter policy which some Member States with low levels of incidence have introduced in an attempt to reassure the public. This could well result in the under-reporting of cases, as we have seen in Switzerland recently. BSE is not an infectious disease that is transmitted horizontally. Whole-herd slaughter has no scientific justification. The majority of herds that have experienced BSE in the UK have had only one or two isolated cases. Most herds in Britain are not closed herds and therefore animals come in from all over the place. If one of those animals gets a disease, why kill the whole herd? Whole-herd slaughter is not an effective way of reducing cases of BSE. It would cost a small fortune for no tangible benefit. I hope Parliament, in amending this directive, will do so in the light of sound scientific advice, not as a knee-jerk reaction to tabloid newspaper scare stories. – Mr President, I should like to make two brief points which may well be relevant should this go to conciliation, as I suspect it will. The first is the impact of this directive on the existing specialist toxic waste incineration industry. These incinerators have to adhere to higher standards than the coincineration plants. My concern is that the high calorific value waste will be cherry-picked for coincineration and this in turn will push up the cost of the specialist toxic waste incinerators which will mean that they will have to actually buy in fuel in many instances to achieve the high temperatures which are required to destroy things like dioxin. We need the specialist toxic waste incinerators. There are only three at the moment in the United Kingdom. If we had fewer of these plants, it would mean that hazardous waste might well have to be transported for large distances, which is not acceptable for both political and practical environment reasons, and it would also push up the cost of incinerating this toxic waste. The second point I would make is to underline the point made by Dr Jackson. I come from a region in the United Kingdom with the highest density of pigs. Now traditionally fallen stock has been disposed of by burial on the farm, but with these very large units this is just not a practical way of disposal, so many of the units have installed their own incinerators – small incinerators using less than 50 kg per hour. If these incinerators are not used, people may well have to go back to burial. I think this mix-up has been due to a misunderstanding between the Department of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture in Britain, who thought there were only sixty incinerators of this type when in fact there are several thousand. This problem also applies to hunt kennels which feed fallen stock, and dispose of offal and – bizarrely – to pet crematoria, although I understand that human crematoria are not covered as dead people are not classified as waste. In conciliation could I ask you to make allowance for these farmers who have invested in cleaning up the environment by installing incinerators, and for whom the cost would be excessive should they not be able to continue. – Mr President, following the events of 11 September there was a real international will to streamline and improve systems of extradition in connection with terrorist crime. Whilst it is true that terrorism may have an environmental impact, for example the release of pathogens or the deliberate poisoning of water, this report goes much further than terrorism. I agree with Mr Berthu that we must resist attempts to extend the EU's sphere of influence into the judicial area, environmental or otherwise. I am particularly worried about the amendments which talk about extradition or about the surrender or confiscation of profits as first pillar powers. The advice of Parliament's legal services is that there is no legal base under Article 175 for this measure. Why do we pay these lawyers to give us advice and then ignore it? I am keen to see Member States cooperating to adopt measures under the third pillar to combat environmental crime, for example in common definitions of criminal offences; but the British Conservatives will vote for rejection of this report as amended because it has no legal base. It talks a lot about subsidiarity in the recitals, but the articles themselves fly in the face of the principle of subsidiarity. The European Union would be better advised to divert its energies to an area where it does have legal powers to bring errant Member States before the European Court of Justice for non-compliance with existing directives, as Mr von Boetticher suggested earlier. – Mr President, during the vote one of my Dutch colleagues remarked that part of the report did not make sense in Dutch. I had difficulty in finding any of it that made sense in English! This report has taken political correctness to a whole new level. It is counter-productive to approach such an important issue as religious fundamentalism with a tirade of political fundamentalism of the kind that this report is largely made up of. I am particularly critical of paragraph 29, even as amended, which considers the separation of church and state to be the most acceptable form of government. I do not have to remind you, Mr President, that in my country, if not in yours, the head of state is also the head of the established church. That is a system that works very well indeed. I hope Parliament is not calling on the Queen to abdicate, so that maybe we can elect President Kinnock in her place! – Mr President, I wanted to speak before the debate actually started, because we had been led to believe in our group meeting that one of the other political groups had tabled an amendment under Rule 146 calling for this debate to be adjourned until the next part-session. I understand that it has not been brought forward and therefore I would have liked to put it forward in my own name at that time. As we have now started the debate we cannot do that, but I would just like to express my concern that I was not called before the debate started. – Mr President, this amendment to the directive is part of the process of tidying up the loose ends not covered by the Auto/Oil Programme. I cannot wait for the other directives coming along on small pleasure craft and the small spark ignition engine which will complete the story.  Motorcycles constitute a very small percentage of traffic volume. Advances in engine technology for cars and trucks coupled with a 6% rise in motorcycle mileage in the 1990s have meant that the proportion of pollution from bikes is increasing. I therefore welcome this proposal but with certain reservations. My major concern is the short time between 2003 when the new standards will apply to new models and the date when that is extended to all new motorcycles. This will put tremendous pressure on the smaller European manufacturers, like Triumph and CCM in the United Kingdom. Although these modifications are technically feasible, small companies do not have the resources to do the work in only 12 months and the development costs would have to be recovered from a smaller volume of vehicles. This would put European manufacturers at a competitive disadvantage as compared with the big boys from the Far East. I am pleased, therefore, that the rapporteur has recognised this by extending this transition phase to two years. I should also like to congratulate the rapporteur by leading by example by converting his own classic Harley Davidson motorcycle with a retro-fitted catalytic converter. It is not a case of saying one thing and doing another from that side of the House. I have some reservations regarding on-board diagnostics and in-service testing. Regarding on-board diagnostics, a motorcycle is often the first vehicle that a young person buys with limited resources and therefore this will make the vehicle more expensive. Secondly, I am rather cynical about what the owner of the bike will do when that little green light comes on saying that the exhaust system is not performing to standard. I suspect he may be tempted just to take the bulb out. Maybe at this stage of the game we should keep these two balls in play and see how the game progresses towards second reading and possible conciliation. Lastly, on the subject of fiscal measures. Whilst I support market solutions like tax incentives, these should be applied by Member States according to national criteria if they so wish. This proposal is to be made under Article 95, that is to say qualified majority voting, and despite the 28 vetoes given up by Tony Blair at Nice, the UK has not yet given up its right to determine its own taxes, and therefore this should not be within the scope of this directive. Subsidiarity is something that should be protected. – Mr President, there are many factors which purchasers may wish to take into account when choosing a model of car. When I bought my first car my primary consideration was to be noticed in it by the opposite sex. Now other considerations such as safety and economy are more pertinent. We welcome this legislation because it is important that the information outlined is made available to those purchasers for whom environmental and economy considerations are paramount. People in the United Kingdom are particularly interested in fuel economy because of the punitive fuel tax levels set by our Labour Government, which particularly pose problems for people living in rural areas like my own where public transport is often non-existent. My first reaction when I saw this directive was surprise. Not only have we had such a scheme of publicising fuel economy data for some time in Britain, but most people assume that the existing scheme is the result of a European directive already. In fact only Sweden and the United Kingdom have such a scheme. It is good to see Europe following Britain’s lead. The key to the success of the United Kingdom’s scheme is simplicity. I hope that the directive, as outlined in the common position, does not confuse consumers by going further than our scheme. My first concern is that there is flexibility for Member States to extend the information available. Whilst I realise that there are subsidiarity implications for this flexibility it is also true that by having different information and different formats in different Member States this could distort the single market and confuse consumers who wish to buy in different states. Secondly, the directive proposes to compile a top ten list of vehicles according to class. How does one define these classes? If it is based on the footprint of the car then we could see small saloons, four-wheel drive vehicles and two-seater sports cars listed together, clearly a nonsense. It is also possible that a manufacturer could move a model up to a class containing larger vehicles simply by adding 15 cm of plastic to the front. Top ten rankings may also differ in neighbouring countries. In welcoming this scheme, I hope that when it is reviewed in 2003, if any of the problems I have mentioned have arisen, these can be addressed. Finally, I congratulate Mr Sterckx on the way he presented this to the committee and for his cooperation. – Mr President, on a point of order, although we are not joined by the Council representative tonight, could I ask whether the Commission or a representative of Parliament's secretariat are aware of press agency reports I have seen which state that the decision to extend the voluntary scheme for 12 months was actually made in the Council yesterday, circumventing the codecision procedure and making this debate and the vote tomorrow irrelevant? – Mr President, a rhetorical question often rhetorically asked is: which came first, the chicken or the egg? In the case of new clean air technology, it is usually the case that government must first lay the legislative egg from which is hatched the technology to give us cleaner cars or lorries. In the case of this report, however, the situation is reversed, because in the main the technology is available to clean up the small engines which, as Mr Lange says, can produce more pollution in one hour than a car travelling 150 km. In many cases cost is the only reason for which we do not have cleaner engines already. In fact, Honda can produce overhead valve four-stroke engines that easily meet these requirements. However, there are some important exceptions to this general rule. I am pleased that Mr Lange has withdrawn his suggestion that the small-producer exemption should be set at 10 000 units per year – which would not have covered any European manufacturers – and supported the Commission's position of 25 000, which covers 7 manufacturers. However, we have some particular problems with this piece of legislation, and in particular with chainsaws and the like. These are machines which have to be light because they are carried by people; they cannot be hot, to avoid burning the user; and they have to be multi-positional – in other words they have to work when upside down. For those particular uses, two-stroke technology is the only viable option. We remember seeing those Trabants and Wartburgs coming across East Berlin; these types of two-stroke engines are dirtier but, in the case of chainsaws, there is no alternative. The solution put forward by the Commission is to use a system of averaging and banking, whereby dirty engines can be set off against clean engines and clean technology can be saved up for the next year and used to produce some dirty engines the following year. I do not like this system. In many ways it is dishonest, because people will be buying engines which they think meet the regulations, when in fact they are dirtier. Only the big manufacturers who produce a wide range of engines can benefit from this. This system should not be supported. However, we need protection for these particular applications and that is why I have tabled my amendment – No 29 – giving a detailed list of exemptions: strimmers, chainsaws, brush cutters, machines for drilling holes in the ice and so on. I am very disappointed that Mr Lange has not seen fit to support that amendment, because without the protection of this detailed list of exceptions, Mr Lange's amendment – No 30 – does not go far enough, relying only on some technical committee, some Commission assessment of the alternatives. Mr Lange should think very carefully about my amendment, and then we would have a deal that both sides of this House could accept. – Mr President, following the demise of Edwina Currie, the British health minister, who in 1988 said that most of the UK's egg production was infected with salmonella, it is a brave British politician who makes a speech on this subject. Following that bombshell, egg consumption in the UK fell by 60% and the government embarked on what can only be described as knee-jerk reaction, when they slaughtered 2 million chickens. Although some progress has been made in combating salmonella in the UK, there is still much work to be done. There are still 15,000 or 16,000 cases per year of salmonella food poisoning in the UK, half the previous levels. Of course, this is not just a problem in Europe. In the United States in 1994, there was a case connected with contaminated ice cream where nearly a quarter of a million people became ill. Sweden, as Mrs Paulsen has said, has led the way but there they have looked at, for example, heat treatment of feed rather than just looking at the blunt tool of slaughter of flocks. Of course, we hear stories now of Swedes going to Spain on holiday and falling like flies from salmonella food poisoning because they are not used to the constant exposure. It is certainly true that Member States need to make progress to establish more effective national control programmes and at the same time, we need to ensure that imported products meet our own high standards. We must also concentrate on where the problem is, and that is poultry, and in particular eggs which are eaten raw. Pork is less of a problem and, anyway, my grandmother would say that anyone eating raw pork deserves to be ill. Infection in cattle and sheep is negligible so we can continue to eat our rare steak. On the issue of antibiotic resistance, there is resistance building up. However, we should not rush to ban prophylactic antibiotic use, as we could then see an explosion of disease prompting high levels of the resultant therapeutic use that could exacerbate the situation. Lastly, on the issue of plant-based infection, maybe that has something to do with the increase in organic food consumption where I understand you are 30 times more likely to get e-coli infection. – The last decades of the twentieth century have been punctuated by a series of food scares. In many cases genuine concerns are blown out of proportion as the media indulge in a feeding frenzy, seldom letting the facts get in the way of a good story. Maybe we do not have enough journalists with a scientific background able to quantify issues like risk or possibly, as I suspect, a sensational front page headline which will sell a newspaper is more important than giving consumers information on which to judge their buying decisions. Product labelling is one important way in which this misinformation can be countered. It is, of course, possible to go too far and give technical data that confuses rather than informs. When the details of this and other directives are considered I hope we can have at the back of our minds the mother trailing two or three irritable children around the supermarket. She does not have time to read a detailed data sheet. She needs to see at a glance the information on the origin, production method and other details in a simple, unambiguous way. At present food labelling is at best vague, at worst deliberately misleading. For example, one could be forgiven for thinking that bacon labelled "packed in the UK" was produced in Britain under our most stringent welfare standards; not so. And shepherd's pie labelled "product of the UK" may contain beef from Botswana, Zimbabwe or anywhere else in the world. This is not good enough. Labelling rules should address these problems. I now come to the intolerable situation we find ourselves in today regarding the extension of the voluntary beef labelling scheme. What would be the attitude of the EU if it were a company, not a country, that chose to ignore legislation which other similar businesses were complying with? The full force of the law would be unleashed of course. We have the situation that 12 of the 15 Member States have not introduced a voluntary system of beef labelling and are therefore not in a position to move to a compulsory scheme in January. The Commission blames the Member States for not providing information about the lack of action in time for the proper democratic procedures to ensue. They should, however, have been aware of how the situation was developing and I am sure a few telephone calls would soon have put the Commission in the picture. Today, despite the fact that both the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Environment of this Parliament were asked to consider this extension, the Council has decided to ignore this House and change the legal basis for this decision, despite the fact that the amendments proposed were both practical and reasonable and could have been adopted under codecision. This is an insult to the Members of the European Parliament. It is particularly important, finally, that consumers know where the beef they are consuming comes from. In the wake of the BSE crisis we must make it simple for people to identify the safest beef available, which is, of course, British. Could I also urge Commissioner Byrne to introduce a compensation scheme for British beef farmers who are being hit by the illegal action of the French Government? The cost of this scheme can be recouped from the French when, as surely as day follows night, they lose their court case. British farmers need help now, not the promise of compensation later when some of them will be bankrupt and beyond help. – Mr President, on a point of order I can inform the House that in no way did the visit by Members from the UK, Sweden and Germany wish to be described as a delegation. We were merely visiting the United States as a group organised from within our own national groups. We did not represent the EPP Group, we certainly did not wish to usurp the role of the official delegation. I contest the point made about the views expressed during that visit as being particularly extreme. We represented the views of our national parties over there as well as the views expressed within the European Parliament. . – Members of SOS Democracy (and the Democracy-Forum in the Convention) have voted differently on enlargement but share the following critical views. The applicant countries should have been offered more flexible conditions, including different types of association agreements with mutual influence and mutual obligations instead of the colonial style EEA-agreement. Membership should have been offered with variable geometry, lasting derogations, long-term derogations and derogations dependent on the future economic development towards cohesion, fully taking into account the different levels of economic development. The applicant countries should be allowed to decide on their own regarding the buying and selling of agricultural land and second houses, at least until their incomes are comparable to ours. Waiting for agricultural reform and a fair deal, the applicant countries should be able to have the amounts provided for in the agricultural budgets as lump sums, instead of being bound to use the money in the silly, wasteful and inefficient way we have done. Instead of paying full contributions from the first day of membership, they should at least have been offered the five years' rebate that was offered to the UK, Denmark and Ireland, or free membership until they reach a certain income. Many civil servants from the applicant countries will now be offered lucrative jobs in the EU institutions with salaries far above the salaries offered to their own prime ministers. The applicant countries shall have a possibility to tax their nationals, employed by the EU and in the EU countries to avoid unfair inequalities, where their citizens are asked to pay contributions from poor budgets to fellow citizens, e.g. paid 20 times the normal salary at home. The applicant countries should be offered more flexibility in the application of EU rules. They should adopt the rules gradually by following our rules, such as when they export their products to our markets, but not apply all the rules to their home market, e.g. we should accept the sale of sausages in local markets, when they comply with local laws. The fulfilment of common environmental standards should be financed by Community funds so that environmental protection is not spurned in the applicant countries or postponed for better times. The applicant countries should also be allowed to keep their standards, especially when they are higher than ours. The applicant countries should take full part in the Convention with full membership and have their fair share of the posts in the Praesidium and the Secretariat. Also, the treaty resulting from the Convention should be adopted by an IGC with the eastern countries as full members. All EU treaties and rules should have been translated into the applicant country languages and been made available for the citizens through libraries and the Internet in good time before the referendums. The Yes-side and the No-side should have equal public funding. The governments and the EU institutions should not be allowed to interfere with biased information before the referendums. These critical remarks have made some of us vote against enlargement or abstain while others have voted 'yes' to allow the voters in the applicant countries to take a free decision, even if the conditions are not fair. – Could I express surprise that the compromise package negotiated by the three largest groups has been rejected by the Council? We would have preferred to have voted on the compromise amendments. The compromise on the two contentious issues, namely time allowed for setting limits and the right to return contaminated feed to the country of origin with the consent of that country's government, was realistic and workable. I wish to put on the record the position of the ED wing of the EPP that the Council was crazy to reject the package that was on the table. If it thinks it can get a better deal in conciliation, then it has another think coming! Incidentally, the compromise was the best deal for the Italian pensioners as well. – Mr President, I am pleased that the Committee on Budgets has endorsed so many of the amendments by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, in particular budget line B7-524 – assistance in the nuclear sector. We call for an appropriate sum for cancer equipment in the Republic of Belarus, which is still significantly affected by the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident in adjacent Ukraine. Up to 23% of its territory was contaminated; about 2 million people – including 500 000 children – live in the radioactively contaminated areas. The sickness rate in the contaminated areas has grown dramatically. For instance, the number of children under the age of 18 suffering from thyroid cancer is 50 times higher now than before the accident. Among the adult population, the growth of the number of thyroid-gland cases has increased fivefold. The most effective method of controlling these tumours is high-dose-rate brachytherapy, which minimises exposure to radiation of healthy organs and tissues during radiation treatment of malignant growth. High-dose-rate brachytherapy requires high-tech equipment and, due to the high acquisition and maintenance costs of this equipment, Belarus needs assistance. We should not let our very real concerns over democracy and human rights in Belarus prevent us from helping its children. – Mr President, this legislation on the labelling of beef has two distinct aspects. Firstly it ensures traceability of beef products. Cases of food poisoning related to beef are rare, and more often than not can be attributed to storage and preparation in the home or catering outlet, rather than to the processors. Occasionally, however, there is a problem such as the E-coli outbreak in Scotland. In this instance labelling can enable the public to be alerted without inducing panic, and facilitate the tracing back of contaminated beef to the shop, slaughterhouse or farm where the problem started. Secondly, labelling will identify the country or countries of origin of beef. This is not to assist xenophobic consumers who wish to reject all things foreign – although there is nothing wrong with the desire to support one's own farmers who are facing unprecedented economic pressures. The BSE crisis shone a spotlight on the possible health risks associated with beef. Some countries, like France, have a whole-herd slaughter policy which may reassure consumers, despite its lack of scientific basis and a risk of underreporting. The United Kingdom, on the other hand, which has a higher level of BSE incidence at the moment, removes all animals over 30 months from the food chain, as well as adopting a whole raft of other measures. We could argue all day about which beef is the safest, but the fact is that once labelling is in place the consumer will be able to decide. There can be no justification for the continuation of the illegal French ban on British beef if it is clearly labelled. In fact those in France who have studied the subject in depth may well decide to buy British as the safest and tastiest option. I will now comment on the amendments. The inclusion of category is unnecessary, costly and potentially confusing to consumers. Most housewives do not know the difference between a heifer and a steer. A bony Holstein steer would be in the same category as a champion Charolais but that prime animal's twin sister would be in a different category solely because of its sex. Clearly this is a ridiculous situation. The listing of category imposes costs on farmers and butchers, and at the same time would give consumers irrelevant or misleading information. It could also devalue some categories such as young bulls, as supermarkets rationalise the categories they stock. If France wants to continue with its scheme alone, then I would not want to stand in its way. This is a subsidiarity issue. The amendment on Article 14 would prevent the confusing situation where minced beef – marketed for example, in Austria, Mr Fischler – which was derived from Polish animals imported live into Austria, could be labelled ‘prepared in Austria’. I am not sure that Austrian farmers would like that to happen. Without this amendment this potentially misleading suggestion could encourage more live imports, with obvious animal welfare implications. We are working on a very tight timescale on this legislation, which is due to come into effect on 1 September. It would, therefore, be irresponsible of Parliament to adopt amendments which could not be accepted by the Council. There is no time for conciliation. I do not subscribe to the argument that Parliament should abdicate its constitutional right to improve this proposal because others have failed to initiate the legislative process in time. We now have a new French presidency – I do not know if anyone is there representing them – but I commend to the Council the amendments adopted by the Committee on the Environment with a large majority. Could I ask through you, Mr President, that the Council or, failing that, the Commissioner, makes a statement to Parliament? Do you think that you can secure an agreement, based on the five amendments adopted in committee, which will both respect the views of Parliament and deliver this legislation on time as the first major achievement of the French presidency? . – Mr President, this report is concerned with N1 vehicles which is Commission jargon for vans. This is of interest to that most notorious of British drivers – white van man! White van man, as we know in the UK, is a person who despite being in a Ford Transit van thinks he is Michael Schumacher. I know that this is a uniquely British thing, as here on the continent – and particularly in Italy – every driver thinks he is Michael Schumacher. This report is largely technical and concerns how we test the CO2 produced from these vehicles. I have managed to secure exemptions for small manufacturers of specialist vehicles, in particular ambulances, and have also introduced the concept of families of vehicles in order to group together the thousands of vehicles produced in different derivatives. N1 vehicles are important to all of us because you are likely to make your last-but-one journey in an N1 vehicle i.e. an ambulance. But you will also be pleased to know I have secured an exemption for the vehicle you will make your last journey in, because hearses are also to be exempted from this directive. – Mr President, as Mr Lange has already said, we have made tremendous progress in reducing the emissions from road vehicles, by using better technology, using catalytic converters and lean-burn engines and by supplying better fuel – the ten parts per million diesel which Euro 4 would lay down. At the same time we have the problem of what to do with the residue from the oil refineries, because we are taking the sulphur out of the fuel used in road vehicles, fuel which is 26 000 parts per million sulphur. So of course we export to the third world. The  tanker was carrying high-sulphur heavy oil from Estonia to Singapore, but a lot of the rest is used in shipping, causing pollution at sea which we prevented on land. We have an international agreement under MARPOL Annex VI to reduce the sulphur content in sensitive sea areas to 1.5% in the Channel, the North Sea and the Baltic. Even this small step forward will cost one billion euros per year, a cost which will be ultimately borne by the consumers buying the goods which are delivered by ship. The easy bit is to achieve this, using low-sulphur crude or blending. Stage two as proposed by Mr de Roo will be more expensive and it needs to be carefully costed before we go forward with that. There is of course another approach, and that is not to just look at the fuel, as in cars, but to use abatement technology, so called 'sea-water scrubbers', and I am pleased that the compromise includes provision for trials of this new technology. As we speak two ferries owned by P[amp]O operating on the Dover/Calais route, an important connection between old and new Europe, are undergoing major refits in Germany. One of them, the  is being fitted with the converter, the Eco-Silencer, and its sister ship the  is not being fitted, although it has been adapted for fitting at a later date. I am confident these trials will show that the benefits of using this technology go over and above the directive in terms of delivering a 95% reduction in sulphur dioxide emissions, as against a 40% reduction which we can achieve through using the fuel. It is a big improvement over MARPOL Annex VI, with the additional benefit of reducing particulates by 80% and a substantial reduction in nitrogen oxide pollution. The environmental concerns that Mrs Thors expressed need to be addressed, particularly the effects of putting this dilute sulphuric acid into the sea in certain port areas and also how we dispose of the sludge on store in an environmentally sensitive way. I would like to thank Mr de Roo and of course Mrs Hautala, who started this report, and the other rapporteurs for the constructive way in which we have managed to negotiate an agreement within Parliament. – Mr President, firstly I would like to thank Mrs Paulsen for the inclusive approach she has given all the other groups during first and second reading and secondly congratulate her on the way she represented Parliament during conciliation, particularly when dealing with some of our friends in the German Green Group, a difficult task at the best of times as I am sure Chancellor Schroeder has found out and will continue to find out. The European Union produces millions of tonnes of animal by-products and these are separated into three categories according to the risk to humans or animals. Category one, which contains specified risk material, was implicated in the spread of BSE. I am pleased that we also included in category one waste from airlines which may have come from countries that do not have the same standards as we do, although I am sure some people would say that some of the airline food would not be considered fit for human consumption anyway. There is category three, which is fit for human consumption, including catering waste, and category two, which is all the rest. The big issue at conciliation was that of catering waste and there we had two national problems. In the UK catering waste is banned. It was implicated in the start of the foot-and-mouth epidemic in the north-east of England and also in the inquiry into the Classical Swine Fever outbreak in East Anglia, which suggested that the cause might have been a discarded ham sandwich thrown into a field of outdoor pigs. But historically in the UK, we carried out our processing of catering waste on farms – so-called pigswill. This was very hard to control and it is not surprising that there were breakdowns in the way that was done. In some ways I wish that we had gone down the same route as the Germans and the Austrians which was not to process this material on farm, but to put in state-of-the-art multi-million pound installations which were run with typical German efficiency. Some of those are brand new and it would be unfair to shut them down at very short notice, particularly when one considers the alternatives as to where this waste would have to go. Maybe it would go into landfill, as much of the catering waste in the UK does, and that would be subject to rodents or seagulls taking part away and distributing it around the countryside. A second possible way of getting rid of it would be using incineration, which is both costly and damaging to the environment. It is very good that we negotiated this transitional period to 1 November 2006. I said that in the UK we do not have pigswill. We do, however, recycle waste oil produced from such establishments as fish and chip shops, that monument to the culinary art, but also from other catering establishments and private homes that produce waste cooking oil. In the UK this was a thriving cottage industry. Every week a 25 litre drum was taken away and the chef was given GBP 5, part of the black economy. This was taken away to be processed into animal feed. However, when doubts were expressed about the continued use of this, the collectors started to charge a fee and at that point the chefs made alternative arrangements. That meant it went down the drain. That has resulted in blocked sewers and other environmental problems as congealed fats and oils interfere with the infrastructure below our streets taking away the waste water. It is important that the UK gets an extension to give it time to review the situation, to evaluate the risks of the continued use of cooking oil, although personally I think they are insignificant, and to put in place systems for alternative uses such as biodiesel. – Mr President, whilst recently at my sister-in-law's house, I noticed that she had a container of "eco-friendly" washing-up liquid. When I congratulated her on this, she looked rather guilty and admitted that the green bottle now contained normal detergent, as the alternative product was not only more expensive but needed four times as much and even then it did not get the dishes clean; by refilling the container, she could both do the washing up effectively and impress eco-warrior friends. The moral of this story is, of course, that to compete in the mainstream market, eco-products must give a performance close to their alternatives. Only then can these products move out of the niche market they already have and into the mainstream. The eco-label should not be associated with mediocrity. The German Blue Angel and the Nordic Swan have led the way in eco-labelling. To scrap these successful schemes now would be to throw away the baby with the bath water. In the long term, I can see the merits of the single European eco-label, but this must not be imposed on those with existing schemes. A single scheme has advantages for business: for example, only one registration fee and inspection, standardised packaging, and advantages for consumers who will not be confused by a plethora of labels. Eco-labelling is moving on from forest products and detergents to computers and household appliances, but why stop there? Services such as tourism and clean taxes could register. In addition, groups of similar small business could possibly cooperate and register together. In the United Kingdom, we have a flourishing ethical financial services sector, offering savings and pensions which invest from a green perspective. These should not only qualify for an eco-label, but be allowed to sell their products without hindrance throughout the EU in a single financial services market. – Mr President, we are surrounded by chemicals in our everyday lives. Even natural products like the leather of these desks or wood are treated with chemicals; and of course we put chemicals in our bodies, both as food additives and as residues from pesticides; and we use cosmetics, some of us more than others, which come into intimate contact with our bodies. PVC has received a lot of attention and despite the fact that it has been around for over 40 years with no apparent health risks, the spectre of the risk of PVC has been raised. I wonder if it is maybe being unnecessarily demonised, to provide an enemy that the Greens can use in their campaigns. Parliament has already discussed the problems of phthalates, the substance used to soften plastics, in the context of children's toys. The problem we faced there was determining how much of the chemical gets into people's bodies. No migration testing is available to test how much of these chemicals enters people's bodies. Of course that will also be relevant in the application of PVC to medical goods. Although I am sure I would not like a blood bag used for a transfusion I am getting, or a piece of pipe that has been put in my body, to contain poisons, similarly, I would not want a product which did not perform as well to be used in that application. Other PVCs are treated with stabilisers to prevent them being broken down by heat and light. In particular, window frames have been mentioned. Cadmium, which is being phased out, and lead have also been mentioned in this context. Lead is toxic when ingested as a compound, but no one would suggest that it is risky to be in a room which has PVC windows, this is an inert substance. It is when we get to the end of the life of the PVC that we have a problem, as Ms McKenna said. We must certainly try to recycle more PVC. PVC windows have a long life – in fact, none have been recycled yet because they have reached the end of their useful life, but only because buildings have been demolished or because fashion has changed. We are looking at a 60-year life cycle. If we ban the use of lead in new windows, we will not be able to recycle the old windows when they come into the waste stream. Technology is available to ensure that windows made of old lead-containing PVC are overlaid with new PVC so people do not come into contact with it. Before we ban something we should look at the whole picture. What are the real risks, in particular the risk of absorption when we use these products; and what are the risks of alternative products? My house has wooden windows and we have to paint those every three years, so there are risks even with wood, and of course some companies marketing alternative products will play up the risks. Lastly, we should be very careful how we use the precautionary principle because that can be dangerous: used correctly, it is a good thing but if it is used to justify actions for which there is no scientific basis, in politically motivated campaigns, it is a very dangerous principle. – Mr President, reduction of air pollution and, in particular, benzene and carbon monoxide is a legitimate objective of the European Union. Therefore, this directive must be generally welcomed. Air sampling must be organised to give an accurate assessment of annual personal exposure levels, and I am concerned that some amendments that call for roadside inlets would give a distorted picture of the problem. Individuals are not exposed to kerb side concentrations continuously. It is the building line which is important and that may be more than five metres from the kerb. The unqualified derogation for benzene levels, referred to by Mrs Breyer for socio-economic reasons, at first seems bizarre. One would have thought that communities living in our disadvantaged areas, with all their associated health problems, would be those most in need of cleaner air. However, if this regulation were to result in the closure of a major industry in that area, the results would be counter-productive and would exacerbate the social and economic problems. Although petrol engines are the primary source of benzene, metallurgical coke-works are also implicated. If the most stringent aspects proposed are implemented, this part of the steel-making industry could be forced abroad, probably to eastern Europe, which brings me to my last point. The Commission proposal does not specifically address the problems of air pollution in applicant countries; and I think it is irresponsible, given the eminent enlargement, for Parliament not to be given any information regarding pollution levels in countries like Poland and the Czech Republic; and the likely cost and time scale involved in bringing them up to exacting new standards. Could I suggest, Mrs Wallström, that in future, when environment legislation like this is considered, the full implications regarding applicant countries be taken into account and publicised. – Mr President, there have been two disasters in British agriculture in recent years. These are BSE and foot-and-mouth disease, which is still raging in my region. Both have had a devastating effect on individual farmers and the industry as a whole. Public confidence has been destroyed. Our markets have been destabilised and the taxpayer has had to fork out billions to compensate farmers for infected and suspected animals. Many have seen generations of work literally go up in smoke on the funeral pyres, which are still burning. Most disturbing of all, it is a fact that because of BSE people have died, not the large numbers forecast by some scientists, but even the death of one young person is one too many for a family. We still do not know the final death toll of variant CJD. These two epidemics have one thing in common: they can both be directly linked to feeding animal waste back to animals. There is a debate as to how the BSE epidemic started. The latest theory is that it came from deer; but it could have been a mutation or it could have been around for years. The fact is that it was multiplied by the recycling of waste into meat and bone meal. Our initial reaction in the United Kingdom was to introduce a ruminant ban on meat and bone meal. That did not work because of cross-contamination. Feed was contaminated in the mills, in the transport system or on farms containing different classes of livestock. So in the UK we opted for a complete ban. Mrs Paulsen wants to fine-tune the partial ban to include the non-cannibalistic reintroduction of meat and bone meal from category 3 material, that is, material which is suitable for human consumption. She wants to feed chickens to pigs and pigs to chickens. I know that chickens are omnivores but I am sure that they do not naturally live on pork. If the rules were obeyed we would have no problem. My worry is about cross-contamination. We have already had specified risk material found on beef carcases imported into the UK on 15 occasions since January: beef from the Netherlands, Spain, Ireland, Italy – and Germany, which accounted for seven of the cases. If we cannot get it right for the beef for human consumption, if we cannot get it right in Germany, which has one of the best records in the EU, how can we expect that the waste will be correctly segregated in Greece or Italy or Spain? We should therefore keep to the ban on meat and bone meal. Amendment No 100 facilitates this continued ban. The same applies to foot-and-mouth. We had an epidemic in the UK in 1967 that was linked to the feeding of swill. We introduced strict controls. Those strict controls have not been implemented correctly on every farm, otherwise we would not have the massive epidemic that we have at the moment. It is important that catering waste is included in these proposals. I should like to pay tribute to Mrs Paulsen on the inclusive way that she has approached the other groups on this issue and in particular the practical improvements that have been suggested. They include those on waste incineration, allowing small-farm incinerators to continue; on allowing burial on farm in remote areas; on the exemption of manure produced on farms; on the uses of meat and bone meal as fertilizers, given the safeguards that exist; also, on the alternatives to rendering, such as alkaline hydrolysis. We cannot lower our guard, because by recycling animal by-products as feed we risk also recycling the pathogens that cause BSE, foot-and-mouth and other diseases. The economic advantages of doing this pale into insignificance compared with the devastation that has been the direct result of this risky practice. Mr President, we voted against this report as British Conservatives because although we are in favour of much of what is in the report – we are particularly pleased to see that classic and vintage vehicles will be exempted – we are concerned about the principle of substitution. This means that a product could be banned if another product that is safer or more environmentally benign is proven to be so. The problem is that sometimes these judgments are marginal. Also, it is a big threat to research and development. Companies will not bring products to the market if they think that at the stroke of a pen their product will be removed from the market. Lastly, it is very dangerous for consumers, as it will create a monopoly situation in the product market with subsequent price increases. We voted against to register our displeasure about this particular aspect and this is something that we will also need to fight a big battle on when it comes to the forthcoming Chemicals Directive. . The British Conservatives deplore violence of any kind and welcome measures to combat this, including some of those initiatives within the Daphne Programme. Violence, especially against women or children, is completely unjustifiable and cannot be accepted. However, some of the measures in this report encroach on areas better dealt with at Member State level. There is no evidence that taxpayers' money spent on projects at EU level is more effective than when it is spent on national programmes, although the sharing of experience and best practice may make a positive contribution to the reduction of violence of this type. Whilst accepting the good work carried out by the Daphne Programme, the British Conservatives, for the reasons outlined above, have voted against further budgetary appropriations and abstained on the final vote. . – Mr President, I am pleased to see Commissioner Fischler here, but some of the comments I have to make will also refer to Commissioner Byrne's portfolio. I was astounded to read a letter in the  yesterday, from Hervé Gaymond, the French Agriculture Minister, and six other agriculture ministers. It was entitled ‘The CAP is something to be proud of’. I was one of 400 000 countryside marchers in London on Sunday who would not agree. Subsidies have not delivered prosperity and security for British farmers; in fact, often subsidies and quotas are being capitalised into the high cost base of our industry. The letter reminded me of a drug addict in denial, addicted to subsidies. Rather than trying to kick the habit, they want to offer pills to the Eastern European countries waiting outside the school gates to get them hooked too. The CAP needs reform before enlargement, in particular, we should stop the hypocrisy of subsidising tobacco to the tune of over EUR 1 billion per year. The Environment Committee has also asked for 50% of the budget for the European Food Safety Authority to be put into the reserve. I hope this will be recognised by the Council as a clear signal that they should end the uncertainty about its location, which is making it so difficult for this embryonic institution to recruit staff and develop as an effective agency. – Mr President, we have finite resources to expend on environmental improvement, even in the developed West. Money must be targeted where it will have the most beneficial environmental impact. Therefore I welcome this attempt to prioritise substances. Testing techniques are becoming more sensitive. Minuscule levels of contamination can be detected. It is therefore unrealistic to talk about elimination or cessation or even 'close to zero'. What does 'close to zero' mean, one, two, who knows? Threshold levels must be set with regard to human health, not using abstract concepts. Secondly, the United Kingdom has a specific problem regarding the categorisation of fluoranthene, which is one of the family of polyaromatic hydrocarbons in the top category. We have one hundred thousand kilometres of cast-iron water-pipes lined with coal-tar, which contains some fluoranthene. No-one is suggesting that the levels present are a risk to health, but these pipes will have to be re-lined unless fluoranthene can be moved into the 'under review' part of the list, along with the other PAHs like naphthalene and anthrocene all of which, incidentally, the COMMPS procedure has found to be less toxic than fluoranthene. It would be a waste of resources to have to replace or reline all these water-pipes on the basis of this priority list when the resources could be better deployed in areas of real concern. – Mr President, before we vote on this particular report, I think that it is important that Members are aware of the legal advice given by our own legal services, which was not available when we voted in committee. This makes it quite clear that certain aspects of this report fall outside the scope of the Community's responsibilities referred to in Article 175. The good news is that voting for Amendment 28 will solve all those problems. – Mr President, this report was voted under Rule 110a of the Rules of Procedure, which allows for no debate and no amendment to the report. The British delegation of the PPE-DE Group has previously sought to amend reports which it did not support. The new Rule, however, leaves no option but to vote against certain reports. Whilst we support much of what the Hulthén report contains, and of course its objectives, we could not vote in favour of a package that contains references to European eco-taxes. Tax is a matter for Member States. It is not within the competence of the European Union. – Mr President, I am sure that you would agree that one of the functions of any politician is to lead by example. This morning I had occasion to use the tram system in Strasbourg for the first time. I was very impressed by the system, which I suppose it is not surprising, since the trams were actually built in the United Kingdom. But it does seem somewhat ironic to me that we have been voting in this place all week to save the planet but we still ride around Strasbourg in our chauffeur-driven Mercedes. Could Parliament perhaps consider giving Members detailed instructions on how to use the tram system and the routes that are available, and maybe even give us a couple of complimentary tickets to get us started. It is an excellent system and, incidentally, we could save the taxpayers some money by using it. Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Paulsen for all the work she has done to come to this complex compromise. Whilst welcoming the animal welfare aspect of this proposal, I agree with Mrs Klaß that maybe we are rushing a little and we need time to look at every aspect of this rather complex deal. I am also worried that once again we may be coming up against the law of unintended consequences. You may recall that when the original slaughterhouse regulations came forward, the UK Government got hold of them and goldplated them. This resulted in very high costs for some small slaughterhouses which, faced with those costs, closed. That then resulted in animals having to travel very large distances to slaughterhouses. As regards charges, in the case of this particular proposal, whilst it is true that different charges being levied in different countries is a distortion of the free market, common charges would not reflect the differences in cost of inspections in, for example, Lithuania as opposed to Germany. We now seem to have a balance where the cost will reflect the actual cost of those inspections, but it is possible that there will be loopholes, particularly in the way that some countries define 'small operators'. Yes, I support exemptions for small operators, but I can see how some countries that want to subsidise production in certain remote areas would use that definition. Secondly, on the issue of 'naming and shaming', nobody could be against freedom of information – we are all in favour of transparency and openness – and not to be in favour of it would be to support secrecy. We need to be careful, for example, to look at the situation in the UK, where if you are prosecuted you appear in the paper, but if minor infringements are discovered, such as a cracked tile in a slaughterhouse or a piece of mouse dirt in a restaurant, this does not appear on the front page of the local newspaper. In conclusion, whilst I appreciate the good intentions, we need to look at this more carefully to make sure that we do not once again come up against the law of unintended consequences. – Mr President, the British Conservatives support the thrust of this directive. New engines with lean-burn or common-rail technology need low-sulphur fuels as a technology enabler to allow advanced catalytic converters to function. It is a mistake, however, to extend this to non-road mobile machinery, for example, tractors and construction equipment. These are not fitted with catalytic converters yet, and so do not need this type of fuel. In fact, more CO2 will be produced at the refinery by additional processing. Fuel costs will go up by at least 10% – another burden for hard-pressed farmers to carry at a time when they can least take it. We are very disappointed that Amendments 10 and 13 were passed by Parliament. – Madam President, I should just like to briefly explain why I supported Amendment No 35, which could be described as a "wrecking amendment". It was not the intention of this amendment to wreck the directive. But because the changes Parliament wants to make to this directive are so fundamental, we would like to send it back to the Commission to allow them to rewrite it to take into account the marketing ban and take a more realistic view of the alternative testing methods that may be available, not using animals. Therefore I would not like my vote and those of the others in my group who supported that amendment to be misconstrued. The United Kingdom has already banned animal testing. We would like to see that taken forward in a realistic and practical way. – Mr President, in view of the vote on the Papayannakis report I should like to ask the Commission to convene a conciliation committee next week so that we sort this out before the 1 September deadline. Please convey that to the Commissioner please, as she is not listening at the moment. *** Madam President, batteries form part of our everyday lives. In fact it is fair to say that the development of portable electric power, particularly rechargeable electric power, has revolutionised our lives. Each one of us is probably carrying two or three batteries – in our phones, in our watches, in our car key fobs and maybe there are even one or two heart pacemakers in this Chamber. Batteries have made a contribution to safety. Cordless power tools have made building sites much safer and often in the case of power failure we rely on batteries for back-up lighting or emergency power. Recently I was at a nuclear power station where they have a battery the size of a building which provides the back-up power in the event of a power cut. I would like to congratulate the Commission on its proposal which is balanced and in proportion to the problem. In particular, I congratulate the Commission on the way it addresses the problem of waste. Some countries like Belgium have successfully removed batteries from the waste stream. We should take care to look at the cost of this. In Belgium it costs at least twice as much to collect the batteries as the actual value of the batteries themselves. We need to have a market-led solution so that we do not find we are collecting things just for the sake of it. As with most waste issues in my country, the United Kingdom's record is pathetic. When adopted, I hope that the targets set by the Commission will be met and we do not repeat the situation we had with old fridges when the directive gathered dust on the shelf until it was too late to implement it in time. I also hope that the UK government will correctly fund the local authorities which are charged with the task of collecting these batteries. I support some of the amendments. In particular, my Group supports the move not to set recovery targets based on an arbitrary number of grams – 160 grams for every country. Such a one-size-fits-all policy would be bizarre in countries such as the Baltic States where the battery market is not even half of 160 grams. To set the recovery targets based on a percentage is a much more sensible approach. However, my Group will not support the amendments to Article 4 with regard to the bans on heavy metal. Firstly, the alternatives are not developed in every single sector. In the case of power tools in particular the alternative batteries have not performed as well and we would see tools having a much shorter life and being thrown away sooner than at present. Secondly, in the United Kingdom we have had a number of studies on pollution looking at landfill and incineration. Although we have cadmium in the environment, the source of cadmium from batteries is not significant. If we wanted to cut back we would need to look at fossil fuels, fertilisers and the metallurgical industries. Lastly, the timescale. Batteries which are sold now will not come into the waste stream for more than 16 years. Therefore the heavy metal ban does not solve the problem in the short term. Mr President, I should like to thank Caroline Lucas for her report and also pay tribute to Heidi Hautala, upon whose original report this is built and who is now back in national politics in Finland. It highlights an issue that the citizens around the European Union are not even aware of, despite the fact that what the Commissioner says is absolutely true. If present trends continue, over half the pollution produced in the EU will be out at sea. It is true that the use of sea transport and inland waterways is the most environmentally friendly way of moving goods  with the possible exception of a locomotive using electricity produced in a nuclear power station. It is important we see development of this particular type of transport. It is also true that we take the pressure off the roads. In my own country, lack of investment in roads means that one alternative could be the development of more coastal shipping, using ports, for example Scarborough and Whitby, in my region. However, there is a downside to the improvements that we have achieved on land and in fuel quality. If you fill up your car with the latest diesel at 10 parts per million, the downside of that is that the sulphur, which has been taken out of your diesel, remains in the bunker fuel which goes to the ships, and could be 26 000 parts per million. The Hautala report, at first reading, called for reductions to 1.5% in sensitive areas like the English Channel, the Baltic and the North Sea. It is very encouraging that the amendments that I put forward at first reading with regard to abatement technology were taken on board. P[amp]O Ferries, operating on the Dover-Calais route, have two identical ships operating, one with the abatement technology and one without. I hope the Commission will look at the initial results of those trials to see whether this technology is an alternative, more cost-effective way of achieving the aims that we want. I hope that these amendments will be taken more seriously by the Commission than some of the amendments that the Commissioner referred to, which call for even stricter levels that may not be cost-effective. We must bear in mind that if we reduce the sulphur levels of fuel for ships, we increase the emissions at the oil refinery where these sulphur levels are reduced. It is important that we act internationally, and not unilaterally, through the International Maritime Organisation and Marpol Annex VI. It is particularly disappointing that only five Member States have ratified Marpol Annex VI. Unless there have been developments which the Commissioner could refer to, I understand that the United Kingdom - which is always critical of other countries that do not ratify agreements such as Kyoto - has not ratified Marpol Annex VI. It is vitally important, when we look at emissions, to see where they take place. Emissions out in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean do not cause us problems on land. I am worried that some of the more ambitious suggestions in Mrs Lucas' report, for example an 80% cut, are out of proportion to the cost. But we now have a reasonably balanced report which we will be pleased to support in the vote in plenary tomorrow. Madam President, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy proposed a number of amendments to the budget. One main concern was with regard to the resources allocated to the various agencies and institutions that carry out statutory duties on our behalf or provide data and statistical information. We cannot demand that, for example, the European Environment Agency provide environmental indicators to enable us to link common agricultural policy reforms to the achievement of environmental goals if their budget is not adequate. Last year Parliament voted to allocate resources to help address the continuing health problems in the Republic of Belarus as a direct result of the Chernobyl incident of April 1986. Radiation affects 23% of the territory of Belarus. In the Gomel Oblast, which is contaminated, there are 2 million people, including 500 00 children. Rates of sickness have increased dramatically. For example, the number of children who suffer from thyroid cancer has increased fivefold. Most of the children were not even born at the time of the incident. In July I visited Belarus. I visited hospitals where they were trying to treat the casualties of the problem. I saw equipment that was 20 years out of date – radiotherapy equipment that was Soviet built and was broken down, with spares unavailable. Even if spares were available the government could not afford to repair them. They do not have access to the iridium sources needed for this equipment to work. So what have been the priorities of the European Union in the last 12 months in terms of spending? We have spent EUR 180 million on the ridiculous pilgrimage to Strasbourg; we have wasted EUR 60 million on the Committee of the Regions – a talking shop that nobody listens to; EUR 5 million have been nicked by corrupt officials in Eurostat. How much have we spent solving the health problems in Belarus? Not one penny. We are told that the Commission intends to commission a study. That is not good enough. We need to address the problems in a country that is going to be on our borders in July next year. – Mr President, the biggest event in the football calendar in Britain is the FA cup final. At half-time millions of kettles are turned on to make a cup of tea – for those who have not been drinking beer since the start of the match at least. The demand for electricity – a commodity that cannot be stored – peaks. To meet this demand, or at similar times such as particularly cold days in winter, some of our older coal-fired power stations are pressed into service. Amendments to the common position threaten the future of some of these stations and the jobs of the miners who supply the coal. It is technically possible to upgrade them, but in many cases it would be cheaper to build new gas plants and retro-fit these stations with exhaust scrubbers. The main plank of our air quality strategy in this area is the national emission ceilings and, as long as they are met, Member States should have a degree of flexibility. New gas-fired plants have already contributed to the UK meeting its targets. How a Member State meets its obligations is an issue of subsidiarity. Some of the proposed amendments will be counterproductive. For example, the inclusion of an end date of 2012 will result in old plants being run harder to use up the time remaining and will increase pollution during those four years. The common position is already a compromise and takes account of first reading amendments by adding in measures on existing plants which were not part of the Commission proposal. We should not destabilise the delicate compromise package by seeking to further amend this directive, which already delivers substantial and very real environmental improvements. – Mr, President, first of all I want to pay tribute to our three rapporteurs. Parliament is very fortunate in having distinguished Members who are experts in their field and that is reflected in the quality of the work they presented to us. I want to speak from the perspective of the rapporteur on internal market strategy for the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. I was very pleased that colleagues endorsed this report so soundly in the last plenary session. We all share the view that confident, well-informed consumers, empowered to make choices, are at the foundation of a successful internal market. We want those choices to reward companies that provide quality, value and outstanding customer service and we want to make sure that the framework of regulation does not discourage innovation; it must actually encourage innovative companies. We also want to encourage responsible and successful businesses to adopt regulation to help themselves, to look at codes of conduct, to drive out irresponsible businesses. That is the framework in which we must all judge your proposals. I hope you will agree with me that it is of no value whatever to consumers to penalise successful and responsible businesses with excessive bureaucratic costs when the rip-off merchants simply ignore the legislation and go scot-free. Enforcement of regulation must be something that you will look at. I am pleased that you explained to us the range of studies that you have commissioned, including impact assessment. I want your assurance today that the impact assessment is looking at the costs imposed on business and making sure the results are proportionate and delivering real consumer benefit. In conclusion, I would like to say on behalf of all my colleagues in the Internal Market Committee, that we are really interested in consumer policy. We would like to see more of you in the Internal Market Committee because we think that some of the proposals you have sent to us are not delivering benefits to consumers in the way that we would like to see. I say to you in generous terms, please get out more, come and spend more time with us and together let us build a real consumer-driven internal market. – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner very much indeed for that extremely comprehensive answer and also for mentioning his own personal experience of the problem. I am pleased at the range of measures that he has outlined. If I could perhaps ask a couple of supplementary points: in his list of countries involved in the various studies on the Stop Programme, he did not actually mention the United Kingdom. Perhaps he could confirm whether my own Member State is involved or whether it will be brought in in the future. If not, maybe this is something that I, along with others, can do something about. Secondly, in terms of the work outlined and personal experience, particularly in relation to the issue of providing information to the parents of children – to some extent setting aside the issues I raised in my question, as it is clear from the BBC report that parents of children are being completely misled by people wishing to exploit their offspring – are there perhaps grounds for involving the EU in some sort of campaign to overcome this problem of misinforming parents, to try and tackle the issue at source. Mr President, I am here today speaking on behalf of all my colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, in particular my colleague, Mr Doorn, who has been the shadow rapporteur for the three successive reports that our hardworking rapporteur, Mr Medina Ortega, has produced. In a way this is the end of the first phase of our cycle of work and, as the Commissioner said, we are now moving on to looking at further details of how to make the interinstitutional agreement work effectively. It is perhaps in that context we have the opportunity to make one or two remarks, rather than the specific points contained in this relatively short report. We have not really had enough debate in this Chamber about the whole issue of our role in better lawmaking or improving and simplifying the regulatory climate, as the Commission reminded us. I would like to reflect on what my colleague, Mr Medina Ortega, said on the way in which we adopt decisions and the way in which regulation is developed and promoted within the European institutions. I agree with him that our citizens are genuinely concerned by the process. That is why they want us to do the job better and that is why those who are directly implicated in the process – whether consumers, citizens, or businesses, large and small – want to feel that they have been consulted and they have had their say at the right stage in the process. One of the crucial elements of doing the job better is improved development of our legislative strategies and early consultation in the process. One of the most important features of the Commission's action plan is that it is essentially a two-step process. Before we move into the detail of the extended impact assessment there is also a stage for considering the whole strategy of the legislation, its objectives, a clear definition of those objectives, and the tools by which those objectives would be achieved. This might possibly be regulation, but there is no reason at that stage why some form of self- or co-regulation should not be considered as a proper option. I know that my colleague, Mr Medina Ortega, is concerned about the way that self- and co-regulation develops, but I would argue that, if we consider that as a genuine alternative at the beginning of the process and see how it is integrated and that safeguards are built in and check it against the alternative of heavyweight and intrusive legislation, this can only be to the benefit of simplifying and improving the regulatory climate. After all, we are looking for effective and efficient legislation. We are looking at outcomes. That is what we have just been discussing in connection with enforcement because the problem is that, however much we legislate at European level, if we cannot have consistent enforcement, the cost of the legislation falls on people who already have the systems in place and are doing the job. It does not squeeze out those who are breaking the law. This works to the disadvantage of consumers – an issue that I know is at the core of your remit, Mr Byrne. We should support this report, but this is only just the beginning of the process of working together with all the institutions to deliver what our citizens want, which is effective and efficient regulation or alternatives to regulation. – Mr President, I should like to welcome Mrs Diamantopoulou here this afternoon. I know she will be speaking on behalf of Mr Liikanen. We are obviously disappointed that he is unable to be here. We understand the pressures on the time of Commissioners. We know that across the Commission there is great interest in this subject and, in particular, in a number of the areas for which Mrs Diamantopoulou is responsible, this issue will also be of crucial importance. The thrust behind our question – which is tabled at a timely point in the run-up to the Barcelona Summit – is that the need across the European Union to deliver access to information society services and to encourage the climate in which new services will develop has to be at the foundation of the Lisbon goal to deliver the most competitive knowledge-driven economy in the world. I emphasise "knowledge-driven" because what we are talking about is the ability to achieve the widespread dissemination and availability of that knowledge. Part of the problem with this topic is the whole issue of jargon, and our question perhaps falls into that trap by talking about flat-rate Internet access. Perhaps colleagues will bear with me if I just set out why that is so critical. If the Internet is really to deliver its full potential as a global knowledge network, as an instantly accessible medium, then we have to encourage people to use it in such a way that they become detached from the feeling that, with a time-based connection, they have to hurry through what they are doing, that the facilities are not always there and available to them. That really is what this is all about. It is making that huge library of information and services available in such a way that people can have continuous access to it at a price they can afford. That is really at the heart of this question. We know that quite a lot has moved forward. I am pleased to have been a member of the teams in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which have worked very hard with the Commission to push through directives on matters such as the unbundling of the local loop and the whole of the electronics communications package. We understand our role and responsibility here. The ultimate delivery of these services will have to come from the marketplace. It has already happened successfully in mobile telephony; it is already happening now in the marketplace as new investment is going in. However, we have to encourage investment in the backbone capacity that will carry these services and encourage people to develop the new services that will take advantage of that increased capacity. What we are talking about is moving from the relatively small knowledge pipelines that are coming into our houses and our businesses to much larger pipelines of knowledge. New services will be delivered with them. For example, a full-length movie will be delivered in seconds rather than hours, as it is at the moment. In conclusion, we look forward to hearing how the Commission is going to encourage that development of fast Internet access, how it is going to stimulate that provision across the Member States, what further action may be necessary, and what further support we can give to this crucial aim for the future of the European economy. – Mr President, I should also like to thank Mr Monti for coming to Parliament today and making a very clear statement on a very complex issue. It would have been very helpful if we could have had the text in advance, but I understand and hope it will be available very quickly. I should like to raise two points with him. What concerns British consumers – and much of it is addressed in his proposal – is clearly the question of price. Does the Commissioner see a role for putting price bans and price guarantees in the regulation so it is reviewed after a certain period to ensure that prices are converging? That would give a clear signal about the direction he wants to go. The second issue concerns freedom of dealers and their ability to invest. He has moved substantially in the right direction but I am concerned, in the example he gave, about the ability of a dealer to Holland to go and invest and set up a dealership in the UK. How is that going to protect dealers who already have a substantial investment? Would it not be much better for them to be able to go and buy cars in Holland and sell them to consumers there, rather than have what could be a random solution which would actually dissipate the impact of the dealers' independence that he wants to give them? I would like to ask the Commissioner a supplementary question as an MEP who actually attended the summit in Geneva and was therefore able to see the extensive engagement on the floor of the conference by members of civil society, which I thought was very helpful. I would also welcome an invitation to Mr Staes' meeting. Although I went to the summit, I was entirely unaware of his interest, so maybe we could get together later. One of the points I made when we had a debate on this issue, Commissioner, was that I felt that parliamentarians need to be much better engaged in the process. We only had a small meeting with the interparliamentary union. Would he work with the European Parliament so that we can get a better engagement, both of European and national parliamentarians, as part of the Tunis agenda and in the run-up to Tunis? – Mr President, I am speaking here on behalf of my colleague, Mr Bradbourn, who was the rapporteur for our committee, though I was very much involved in drawing up the opinion. I should like to say first of all to Mrs Torres Marques that she has produced an extremely comprehensive report with a lot of good ideas in it. I would say to Mr Liikanen, whom I am pleased to see here in a different guise from when we normally engage in debate, that I read his proposal with great interest. I want to emphasise that the line taken by my committee in our opinion is that we are looking for areas where the Commission can add value. We are not looking for new Treaty competences. We are not looking for new layers of bureaucracy in an industry which, as Mrs Torres Marques has rightly pointed out, is characterised by the very large number of small- and medium- and owner-operated businesses. The last thing we want is lots of bureaucratic information collection and even ideas like new observatories. The Commission has a role in adding value, in promoting ideas about benchmarking and sharing information about standards, but industry players and local authorities must be engaged in that process. I emphasise that they have to add value to the process. Mr Liikanen's portfolio is a very broad one already. I do not want to see him diverting a lot of resources into something that is primarily a competence of Member States and should remain so. In that connection, I do not want to see us use the ideas about tourism – and certainly, as Mrs Torres Marques has said, it employs a lot of people – to call for centralising measures, for new tax centralising measures or for new measures that might engage regions directly instead of Member States. We should clearly be discussing tourism issues but we should be quite clear about where the responsibility lies. We should say to the Commission: add value, look for solutions but do not add to your Treaty competences. – Mr President, I am sorry Mrs Fontaine had to leave, so perhaps you would pass on my remarks to her. As the House will know, I spent a great deal of time studying the reform process on behalf of the House last year and continued to follow it through the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. I understand exactly the points that Mrs Fontaine made but, I ask you, on behalf of all Members of this House, to keep us better informed of the process. This was the point that I raised back in September when I asked the presidency to give us the same level of information about the progress of the reforms as we are receiving from the Commission. Mr Kinnock has given us a comprehensive timetable about the progress of the reform discussions. This House, these Members, have no information whatsoever from the Bureau about the reform process. I ask you to be much more transparent and to give us a progress report on these reforms. – Mr President, on behalf of my Group, I should like to give a very warm welcome to this report and to thank Mrs Flesch for her very comprehensive and detailed work, which shows her experience in the field. I should also like to pay particular tribute to Mrs McCarthy who I have worked with in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. Between our rapporteur and our draftsman, they produced a very sound report. What is important about this report is that they have resisted the temptation to complicate what was basically a simple text proposed by the Commission. Essentially, Commissioner Liikanen, the word from Parliament is to go and get on with it. We do not want to over-complicate it. We have made some worthwhile improvements, but the fundamentals of what you proposed have been left unaltered. That is important because, we must remember, the ".EU" domain name is actually a late entrant into a highly competitive and crowded market. It has to justify its existence. For it to be successful we want companies and organisations to use it. Therefore, the registration procedures have to be simple, easy and cost-effective. We must bear in mind that the policies and procedures adopted by the registry will need to reflect best practice in the field. Because we are coming into this late, there is no excuse for not getting it right. So some of the safeguards that both Mrs Flesch and Mrs McCarthy refer to, about protection of trademarks and avoidance of vexatious registration – cyber-squatting – are particularly important. I want to highlight two particular issues of concern that I raised during the debate and was particularly pleased were reflected in the amendments. Mrs McCarthy referred to her amendment seeking to enable organisations with a prior title to a name to have a priority period of registration. That is very important. We do not want to disadvantage companies which are already active in this field which feel that they must protect themselves and want to take on the ".EU". We do not want them to feel that they are going to be held back in any way. They must have a priority period of registration to avoid this problem of vexatious registration, of people who just want to make a "quick buck" moving into that field and taking hold of that registration. It will be very important for the new registry – and I direct this particularly to the Commission – that the launch date and the priority registration period are very well publicised throughout the European Union so that people understand those rights. Secondly, we have to ensure that the ".EU" name does not, in any way, displace existing Member State domain names. I proposed an amendment, which I am pleased was accepted by my colleagues, that makes sure that the ".EU" registration is not empowered to issue any sub-domain names using Member State identities. In conclusion, this is a worthwhile enhancement of the European Union's information society capabilities in a very fast-evolving world. Madam President, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Konrad, for generously giving me a minute to talk on behalf of the constituents Mr Cashman and I share in the United Kingdom, and who are affected by the uncertainty over Alstom. I will come straight to the point; it is perhaps a reflection of our different views that I want some answers from the Commission about the way forward. It is clear this business has to be restructured and that it must change in its present form because of the lack of demand for its products. However, I would like to ask the Commission, firstly, its views about the sale of the transmission and distribution division to Arriva. Could the Commissioner confirm that this will not be subject to any further delays for competition purposes or, if that disposal or sale is to be referred to him, that he will speed up the procedure as much as possible, so that the employees and that very important division with a long-term future are not affected by any more uncertainty? As far as the other parts of the undertaking are concerned, will he confirm that the Alstom management will be free to consider offers and to sell other parts of the business to whomsoever they choose and wherever they come from? We know that there are businesses in Germany and potentially in Japan and America which would be interested in giving a future to employees by reconsolidating the sector. Finally, will he look at the competition implications in the transport business, and at the fact that within the United Kingdom the majority of railway rolling stock is manufactured outside the country, whereas other countries seem quite capable of introducing into their contracts provisions to ensure that rolling stock is made in their own country? That is a crucial issue that will affect the future of an excellent railway assembly plant in Birmingham where there is no future work. At any rate, as part of a restructuring process, we would like to see those people employed in making trains for the United Kingdom market. – Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Rothley, very much for the painstaking work that he continues to do on behalf of citizens and motorists throughout Europe in filling gaps in their insurance cover. Insurance has to be as foolproof as we can possibly make it, because that is what consumers expect. Many of us have dealt with constituency cases, because of problems or loopholes in insurance cover. I welcome this proposal from Mr Rothley on behalf of our group, and particularly thank him because he has accepted a number of suggestions that I have made to him in this area and added them to his report. I just want to mention two areas specifically this evening. The first is an important provision that not only benefits citizens, but also encourages in a practical way the development of the single market. Currently, if European citizens wish to go and buy a new car in another country, they have to get special insurance cover for the period when they pick up the car from the dealership or the factory and bring it back to their own home country. Their current home insurer is not allowed to provide that cover. In Mr Rothley's proposals, they will be able to do that simply and easily. Cover can be extended for 30 days to encourage citizens to go and exercise their rights in a single market and shop across borders. That is something which the Commission, particularly the internal market Commissioner, Mr Bolkestein, will be pleased to support. The second issue, mentioned briefly by Mrs Gebhardt, concerns cover provided for citizens who take up temporary positions in other EU-Member States, such as students moving to a university wishing to take a car with them; workers on secondment or members of families moving to another country for a temporary period. They will be able to take their car and its existing insurance cover for a period of up to 12 months, without any problems. That is important. We know from complaints received, certainly in my case, from UK citizens that it has not been easy for insurance companies to provide such cover. Again, this is of practical benefit enabling citizens to exercise their rights in the internal market. In conclusion, I would like to say to Commissioner Bolkestein that I hope he will accept this proposal from Mr Rothley on behalf of Parliament and move as quickly as possible to bring these changes into effect in the form of further revisions to the Motor Insurance Directive. – Mr President, I take issue with most of my colleagues who have spoken in the debate so far, as regards their desire to rush into some form of undefined new directive or regulation on so-called concentration and media ownership. As Mr Byrne pointed out to us in an admirably clear intervention, there is no treaty base for it. How is it going to be defined? How far do you intervene politically in issues of media concentration in areas that, as the Commissioner pointed out very clearly, cut across a whole range of other weapons the Commission has at its disposal to regulate monopoly power, a word that has been freely bandied around this Chamber this evening? If there is monopoly power commercially, then the instruments are there to tackle it and they should be used. I wonder how many colleagues who have contributed to this debate this evening have actually bothered to read the new package that regulates electronic communications. Mr Watson, who opened the debate, probably has not, because if you look at that regulation – and I was one of the colleagues that worked on it very closely – you will see that it anticipates the fact that we will have convergence and that the big issues that are opened up in the world of convergence are about controlling access to channels. There are provisions in this regulation to open up access, to make access available on fair reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, again key words we should be thinking about in any context, particularly in media. It also makes provision for public service broadcasting, an issue that we ought to be discussing more in this context, to allow governments to open up channels where they feel that public channels should be conveyed to the market place. Those issues are already there. Do not ignore them. I agree with what Mrs Hieronymi said. Certainly we should invite the Commission to look at this problem, but the last thing we should do is to anticipate the results of that analysis. – This has been a difficult and complex task and the three rapporteurs have certainly done a very good job in the circumstances. We have had difficulty in reconciling the texts. We have not made the Commission’s task easier. Between us, we have overcomplicated these texts and it is going to have a job to sort these out before the second reading. It is a lesson for us in the future that, as politicians and parliamentarians, we should focus on simplification and minimum regulation. I was interested that my colleague, Mrs Gill – unfortunately she is no longer here – made the point of support for market development to minimise regulation. We have not done that with the amendments that we have made. The problem with the work that we have done so far is that we have got bogged down in today’s thinking. We are actually finding excuses for regulating. We have spent an enormous amount of time on significant market power and deciding how to regulate it, instead of actually thinking about the way forward. I am pleased a number of colleagues, including Mr Glante, made that point as well. That is something that we need to reflect on between now and the second reading. I am particularly concerned about the fact that we are not thinking about the way the market is going to reconstruct. We should look at the change in sentiment in the market that has taken place over the time that we have been reviewing these texts and think about the mobile market which is still enormously dynamic, has shown terrific rates of growth, is introducing new products all the time, and is within sight of getting mobile communications to two-thirds of the European population. We are spending far too much time here thinking about transitory issues of roaming. I know colleagues feel very strongly about it but the market will actually cure those issues. I remain entirely unconvinced that the sort of interventionist approach we have taken here is right. In conclusion, I remind colleagues that there is one more very important report to come, my report on universal service, and many of the things you have talked about and, indeed, some of the provisions on mobile are actually more appropriate for my report and not for Mr Brunetta’s. I am sure the Commission will remind us of that but I shall resist those sort of temptations when I come back to you in two months time. . – Madam President, it gives me great pleasure tonight to be able to present my report on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market to the House on universal services and users rights relating to electronic communications. This is a further element in what is a most crucial package of legislation that is now being considered by Parliament to create a single regulatory framework for electronic communications. It is so important for the future of the European economy as a whole that we get this package right. It has been a privilege for me to have been able to work for the first time in my parliamentary career here on a major codecision text like this. This is a complex text and the procedure for review has also been complex. I would like particularly to thank the rapporteurs of the three committees who provided me with opinions, Mr Papayannakis, Mr Aparicio Sánchez and particularly Mr Caudron, where we worked together under the Hughes procedure and where the amendments that were passed by the Committee on Industry were received by my committee. We did not vote on any of them, they were accepted by us in our report. I would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the various committees I worked with for providing me with so much support. Indeed, the final text before us has been the result of a lot of work by many people. I am not proposing to accept any further amendments to the text, even though a number have come in rather late in the day from the Socialist Group. I believe we have reached a good agreement on the text and I am not proposing to support any additional amendments in the vote tomorrow. I should like to say a few things about the text itself. It is a very comprehensive text because it contains four distinct measures. There are the provisions relating to universal service itself, how it should be delivered, how it should be funded in an open and transparent way that does not distort the market place and a whole series of measures on users' rights, including some important new measures reflecting the new technology which is coming our way. It has a number of crucial measures related to market intervention and the ability of Member States to intervene very directly in the market place, and to set retail pricing for example. Finally, it also has some measures related to digital television, particularly a package of obligations related to "must carry" provisions for public service broadcasts. I do not have time this evening to go through all of those in detail but I would like to observe that I have specifically asked the Commission in the text that we will receive at second reading to mark out more clearly those four aspects of the text. At the moment it is quite complex, particularly the market intervention measures which are regarded as transitory measures by the Commission, a view that I share. They are there for the time in which the market is still being directly regulated, but this whole package envisages a time when the entire market will operate under normal competition aspects. Those transitory measures should be clearly identified because hopefully we will not need them in a few years' time. My approach in considering this text has been to give strong support to the strategy behind the directive. The Commission has not sought to enhance significantly the scope of the universal service remit and that is absolutely right. In my work I have sought to clarify the text, to improve it in some aspects, but to be very selective about new provisions. In the area of users' rights it has been important to strike the right balance between a text that will be agreed centrally at European Union level and detailed work that should be done in the Member States. Believe me, colleagues, I have had no shortage of people wanting to complicate this text, wanting to add extra provisions. I believe I have the balance right, particularly in the light of the fact that these provisions will apply to the applicant countries, where the technological base from which they start will be much lower than that envisaged at the moment. I am confident that the proposals I put before you tonight are balanced and will stand the test of time. They anticipate technical development. They will be good for consumers because they sustain and develop competition. They provide essential rights for consumers but they will allow a sector that is changing very fast to thrive and develop in the future without unnecessary and complex interference. – Mr President, I would like to focus my remarks this evening on Mrs Cederschiöld’s report. That is why I am here, having shadowed it in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. I would like to commend Mrs Cederschiöld on the way that she has incorporated so many of the opinions of different committees into a very comprehensive report and also to congratulate the Commission on this initiative. I feel this is a very worthwhile and challenging document. One of the problems with the report is that it contains a huge amount of material and potential actions and priorities will therefore have to be set. So this evening I should just like to address what I believe is a crucial problem that needs to be looked at in the short term: the whole question of how we encourage the development of electronic commerce to use these tools, to address the sort of business issues that some colleagues are already trying to frustrate, in my view, by moving prematurely to the sort of rigid opt-in arrangement that they are talking about. The e-commerce market is at a very early stage and is still underdeveloped. We do not want to choke it off by some of the things that we are talking about. But we do need to address the security issues. A very important report produced by the British business association, the CBI, last week clearly showed that both businesses and consumers are discouraged from moving into the electronic commerce market place because of concerns about security. Businesses, particularly small and medium-sized businesses, are worried about the vulnerability of their enterprises to fraud and fraudulent transactions. I suggest to you that one of the things that we must work on is to ensure that small and medium sized enterprises get the benefits of this revolution. Consumers are worried about getting involved in transactions because they are worried about the security of their payments. Those are the critical issues we have to tackle. We have to combine that with a regime that allows SMEs to use e-commerce in a targeted and effective way. So I will combine my remarks on both reports by saying that I believe we are taking the right course with Mrs Cederschiöld and the right course with Mr Cappato. – Mr President, I would like to welcome both the President of the Council and the President of the Commission here this afternoon. I want to talk specifically about jobs, competitiveness and the internal market. I have a particular interest in that as the Parliament's rapporteur for the internal market strategy: if all goes well my report will be voted on in February and will be presented to you as a basis for action in the Economic Summit. Both of the Presidents have a crucial responsibility to the global economy over the next six months. Colleagues around the chamber have been quoted, and indeed Mr Simitis was quoted in the Financial Times yesterday, as saying that ‘we are in a global recession’. I hope he was wrongly quoted, because as far as I know, we are not. Growth is slowing down, but stimulating and restoring that growth will be crucial to the responsibilities of both Presidents over the next six months with that Economic Summit at the centrepiece. I am concerned that neither of your statements, Presidents, mentioned the fact that the foundation of economic growth in the European Union has to be the completion of the internal market, in spite of the fact that this is the tenth anniversary. We have had major reports from the Commission showing the benefits of the internal market and we also know that the principal engine for job creation in markets of the future is going to be jobs in the service economy. The biggest project that is coming forward to all of you is the completion of the internal market for services, and the barriers to companies setting up across the European Union are amply demonstrated by the work the Commission has done. I want to ask you, President of the Council, to put on your agenda a determined effort by all Member State governments to clear out the difficulties of establishing businesses across the European Union. You do not need to wait for the Commission to take that initiative to create jobs and move the European economy forward, we look to you to do it. – Mr President, on a point of order, I listened with great interest to the questions by Mrs Stauner and Mr Heaton-Harris who both asked the Commissioner to comment on the allegations made by Mrs Andreasen and on whether, in fact, she was not completely justified. I notice the Commissioner did not reply to those questions. Mr President, please invite the Commissioner to do so because, as two Members have asked the same question, they are entitled to a full response. – Mr President, I should like to take Commissioner Bolkestein back to the last part-session here when we discussed sales promotion. He may remember that I complimented him because he had written an article in a journal complimenting Parliament on rescuing the internal market. It is slightly disappointing therefore to find him back here at the following part-session adopting such a cautious approach on such a fundamental single market issue. In this case we are not talking about the single European market. We are talking about global markets and about the freedom of consumers to be able to benefit from lower prices for identical goods that are placed on the market, quite legitimately, outside the European Union, and which are then imported. I want to remind him – and he cautiously skirted around this in his answer – that we are discussing an archaic piece of legislation. The Trademarks Directive in its original form was certainly introduced to protect trademarks and to secure consumer confidence that they would know what they were buying. But subsequently, in cases before the Court of Justice, it is now being further elaborated into a means whereby trademark owners can actually protect their brand, or supposedly protect their brand and their authorised distribution systems, by essentially keeping prices higher artificially. He asked us quite rightly to say what has changed. I shall tell him what has changed. The first thing is that consumers are getting increasingly irritable about what they see as the failure to act on what ought to be a fundamental right. That consumer pressure was quite rightly cited by his colleague, Mr Monti, when we had a complete and total reform of the legislation relating to the selling and servicing of motor cars. What has that done? It has opened up the distribution system across the European Union. Essentially, cars will be available across borders much more freely than they were before and prices which differ from one market to another will clearly converge. So why should this be any different? I have to disagree with my colleague Mrs Fourtou. It is not a question of counterfeiting or other spurious issues. Surely the reason we have so many of these counterfeit brands is because the genuine brands are prevented from being sold at the price that consumers want to buy. It is a circular argument. I hope that in the July report he has commissioned he will have the facts available and that he will be able to meet the deadline of the end of December that we asked him to meet. This needs to happen so that we can come up with a sensible balanced view, not looking to the past, looking at all the evidence, to the benefit of consumers. We need to continue together with the Commissioner the task of creating a true single market for consumers. I hope he will give us an assurance this evening that he is prepared to move from his overly cautious approach and join with us in the crusade to give consumers across Europe a better deal. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the reply, but I am rather disappointed that he was not able to give me more specific details about the number of proposals that they had been consulted on. The competitiveness, or rather, the declining competitiveness of the European Union is the biggest challenge that we are facing. His report rather smacks of complacency. Could he assure us, first of all, that the Competitiveness Council is taking an active role in looking at Commission proposals that fundamentally undermine Europe's competitiveness, particularly in the fields of chemicals policy, for example? And could he assure us that they are taking the Commission to account for producing proposals that have not been properly subject to the sort of impact assessments that the Commission has pledged to carry out to ensure that the business and competitiveness burden on proposals is properly looked at? This Parliament is looking to the Council to take the issue of competitiveness seriously. His reply has not given me a great deal of confidence that it has the sort of priority that we expect. . – Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough piece of work, a reanalysis of a proposal that Mrs Hedkvist Petersen handled so capably some months ago and in which I was also involved. The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, with Mrs Hedkvist Petersen's report and also with Mr Vermeer, has given a lot of support to the approach the Commission has taken. We did not feel it was necessary to table any substantive amendments to the framework directive because we felt that it covered the strategy that Parliament had laid down. Mr Vermeer has made some worthwhile improvements, but without in any way altering the substance of it. That is important and I agree with his analysis that we should not support the other amendments. I am delighted that the Commission is accepting those so we can move ahead as quickly as possible. I would like to make one or two comments on our two proposed amendments, one of which the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism was kind enough to accept, and also some broader points about the whole proposal. First of all the recital that we proposed focuses very much on the importance of active safety measures, working with passive safety measures, in delivering the overall safety improvements that we want. There have been enormous improvements in the technology over the past few months since we first looked at this. I declare an interest in this in that I am an automotive engineer and I have driven some of the cars with that technology. It is important to emphasise the practical nature of this. If we have technologies that will reduce collision speeds by sensing impending impacts, or even alter the direction of the impact, it will make a very substantial improvement. There are some people in this House who seem to think that the requirements are somehow a pushover. I just want to conclude by relating a recent experience when I went to the Young Designers Exhibition at Coventry University to see what young designers were looking at in car designs for the future. It will interest colleagues from this committee to know that many of those young designers were designing pedestrian-friendly cars but, in order to meet the EEVC Stage II tests, the only way they could meet those requirements was by putting the engine at the back of the car so as to leave enough crush space at the front. Anybody who thinks that these Stage II tests are a pushover, or are easily attainable with current technology, needs to take a serious look at what is going on in the industry and not sit in this House drawing up unrealistic amendments. Mr President, on behalf of all my colleagues I would like very much to welcome Mr Kinnock here to discuss the reforms. I would like to say to him that it is not through lack of effort on our part that it has taken a long time to get this question on the agenda. It has been very disappointing that we have not made progress with the Bureau to elevate the importance of this discussion. Nevertheless we will make up for it tonight and it is a pleasure to have you here. Clearly the reforms – and I know you will be able to tell us much more about them in a moment – are at a critical stage. We know you have been consulting extensively. In a way that presents us with a dilemma in Parliament. You will know from the support for my report last year that colleagues have taken a very deep and intensive interest in the whole package of reforms and we have given you strong support for them. Indeed, we have been very conscious of the fact that these reforms need to be implemented as quickly as possible so that staff do not get disillusioned and they can see that change is ahead of them and new working methods coming before them. We have made some suggestions that are reflected in the question tonight. We do not want to disrupt that process. On the other hand when you send us the elements of the Staff Regulations, as legislators we need to make sure that those changes to the rules are going to work in favour of good administration and not against it. You made out the case persuasively, as it says in our report, that in many cases the current Staff Regulations are deficient in that respect. The question we have tabled tonight goes to what we regard – and I hope that you will share our opinion – as the very heart of the reforms you are putting together. The achievement should be an organisation in which advancement is on merit, an organisation in which all members of staff in the Commission know that they have clear goals, know what those goals are, know that if they meet or exceed those goals their performance is going to be fully recognised. They should know that they work in an organisation in which appraisals of their performance are not bureaucratic exercises that are carried out every two years and put in a filing cabinet and not referred to again, that the appraisal process is part of the overall quality of management and processes within the Commission, part of giving all members of staff the feeling that it is part of their personal development. It is setting them goals, it is identifying the need for training for development, for promotion and identifying the things that they need to do to contribute to the development of themselves and to the organisation overall. That question of appraisal links very strongly to an aspect of the reforms about which we know you are engaged in heavy discussions at the moment. I hope you will not mind if I mention that tonight even though it is not part of our question. That is the question of career structure and your proposals to move to a linear career structure. It is clear that appraisal and career structure are inextricably linked together. It is my argument – and indeed that was expressed in my report and supported by colleagues – that if the appraisal and development system works properly there are no obstacles to achieving the linear career structure – and that is the whole thrust of what you are trying to do. There should be no reason for setting artificial barriers to people's progress through an organisation. If there is a need for qualifications or training to move to the next job the development process will identify that. And so a properly designed and effective appraisal system, which we have asked you a number of questions about in the question we have tabled, is also linked very strongly to that move, and indeed it is the very foundation of a linear career structure as well. My colleague, Mrs Guy-Quint, is going to cover all the detailed budgetary questions with her considerable expertise in that subject, but I would just like to mention two final elements of our questions, to set them in context. The first is one that we have specifically asked you about as an aspect of a modern public organisation: a policy for whistle-blowing – and the English terminology is now being widely accepted as a very good way of identifying a policy where officials believe and are confident that if they find wrongdoing they can report it without fear of recrimination or their careers being affected. The second links in with a debate we will be having later this week on the code of administrative behaviour: how do you see that as an integral part of the overall reforms? In conclusion we very much look forward to hearing your responses this evening and also your reassurance that the reforms are proceeding to plan as you would wish. We hope you will also identify ways in which you would like more support from this House in what is for us an absolutely crucial development for the future of the Commission and indeed for the future of Europe itself. .  Mr President, I am sorry I was not here for the initial part of that very passionate diatribe against liberalisation. I am here wearing two hats. First of all I have had the pleasure to shadow Mr Miller on this report in my own committee, as well as producing the report from the Committee on Industry, during which time we have undertaken the job that we were asked to do, which was to comment on the Commission's strategy document. Mr Miller produced a very interesting report, with much of which I disagreed. I am pleased to say that the committee shared my view and therefore we have substantially improved it in committee. I very much hope and indeed encourage the House to approve our version of the report tomorrow because it addresses a number of the issues that the Commission asked us to address and it was not intended as the forerunner of the PSE Group's manifesto for the forthcoming elections. I want to pick up one or two points, but first I must respond briefly to what Mr Miller said. The internal market has been one of the biggest successes of the European Union. I had the privilege of speaking when Mr Bolkestein produced the ten-year report on the single market last year, and we have seen the figures on that which, I am pleased to say, were included in my report to this committee. They were challenged by some people who do not accept the fact that markets deliver jobs, deliver economic prosperity and therefore deliver the sort of social benefits that Mr Miller was advocating so eloquently earlier on. The core of European social policy is having a thriving and active economy. This is because we made the single market work, because we have stimulated competition and, yes, because we have liberated those privatised sleeping giants of state industries and subjected them to competition, which has expanded choice and reduced costs to consumers. Mr Miller and colleagues need only look at the report from the Commission, look at what has happened to energy costs and to telecommunications costs, to see what can be done. I do not want to get too hung up on water. I am interested to see that this is a tremendous preoccupation of colleagues on the other side of the House. It is referred to here but actually the Commission makes it absolutely clear that policy on ownership is not an issue. Yet there is no doubt at all that there is a lot of scope for improving the efficiency and delivery of water services. You only have to look at the immense discrepancy in the cost of water to communities across the European Union to see that something needs to be done about it. That is all we are asking for and that is what we, by way of my Amendment No 1, hope colleagues will support tomorrow. In my concluding remarks I would like to comment on one or two points. I would like to congratulate the Commission on producing for the first time a three-year perspective with a clear view forward and a series of important and coherent policies to make the single market work better. I would like to congratulate it on putting a higher priority on delivering what we have, on enforcing the measures in the single market, on improving mutual recognition, which I agree with the Commission is entirely at the foundation and the heart of the single market project. That is going to give us an important perspective. I hope, with colleagues in the next Parliament, we will be here to revisit it. In conclusion, this is an excellent report. I want to thank the Commissioner for taking on board so much of the previous internal market committee report, for which I had the privilege of being a rapporteur. I am pleased to say that colleagues in my committee have agreed with the amendments and we have adjusted the report to reflect a continuation of what I did before, not the retrogressive views of the rapporteur in this instance. Thank you for this report. We look forward to working with you to deliver the continued benefits for all citizens in the European Union. – Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Berger very much for her clear statement of support for this proposal this evening. Those of you who have looked at the report will know that she withdrew her original explanatory statement. I was delighted to hear this evening that she had confirmed her full support. This report, with the support of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and my colleague, Mr Beysen, and with Mrs Berger's assistance also, now strikes the right balance by giving the Commission a clear indication of the support of our committee and others for this important initiative. I am delighted that Mrs Berger is going with the flow of that for many of us felt that her initial report really did not do full justice to what we regard as an imaginative proposal, a wide-ranging proposal, and one that is of crucial economic importance to the future of the European Union. We must not ignore the continual structural change in the world economies, in particular in developed economies like the European Union. We are seeing services and manufacturing business starting to converge. We are seeing more integration of traditional service providers, with their manufacturing arms looking to focus on customers in a very different way. Therefore, opening up the single market for services is going to be of great importance. One thing I particularly welcome from the Commission's analysis – something it has indicated in the report that it will now do more work on – is that it highlights the importance of a highly competitive service infrastructure in the overall competitiveness of European industry. So many businesses depend on high-quality, effective, low-cost, efficient services to deliver their businesses. Indeed the whole of the electronic commerce area, which we talked about in financial services earlier on, is facilitating and opening up these sorts of markets. Therefore, this communication is extremely welcome. We look forward, in the Legal Affairs Committee as well as in the Industry Committee, to working with the Commission and to moving forward with the necessary legal framework and the other actions that will be necessary to achieve it. I want to reinforce what Mrs Grönfeldt Bergman said about the role of the small- and medium-sized enterprises in this sector. Again we are seeing the combination of increasing importance of services combined with electronic commerce and the electronic means of delivering those services. That is an area, particularly crucial in the business-to-business sector, where small- and medium-sized enterprises have a crucial role to play in the European economy. Again, these provisions will help. I refer back to the country-of-origin principle. I share Mrs Berger's view that by a happy coincidence we have a set of reports tonight with a common thread running through them. I do not regard the country-of-origin principle as a magic bullet to achieve market integration at a single stroke. Clearly there is a lot of work to be done. Yet, by operating the country-of-origin principle vigorously and consistently we will actually achieve competition and higher standards for consumers more quickly than by any other means. Consumers are going to be well-informed and intelligent enough to know where the best standards of consumer protection are. They are going to demand them from other countries. This is not a question of harmonising down. It is an effective means of making the market operate in the interests of consumers, which is exactly what Commissioner Monti told us in addressing the competition report earlier on. Mr President, I was wondering exactly what Mrs Thors meant when she said that the proposal was being ‘steered into a safe harbour’, especially as she was looking directly at me at the time. Mr Zappalà has been the main driver on this issue, but it has been a pleasure to work with many colleagues. I also want to pay tribute to Mrs Cederschiöld for her wise leadership that has enabled us to arrive at a very satisfactory outcome to this conciliation. I would now like to move forward. The Commissioner gave a very powerful presentation about how important these reform directives are to the completion of the internal market. They now have to work in practice. One of the areas we worked on in this conciliation was that of measures that will encourage Member States to get these directives to work properly. I make no apologies for repeating what I said in my speech at first reading: we know that there are far too many contracts in all areas of public procurement that are not being properly put onto the Official Journal system. Essentially, governments are allowing their public authorities to evade the provisions of the public procurement system. We know from good practice in a number of Member States, of which Sweden is probably regarded as the best example, that where governments take this seriously, the provisions start to work effectively. Examples include setting up independent bodies to advise all the public agencies in the country concerned on how to work with the public procurement directives. We need to make sure that this is happening. I would like to pick up on the point made by Mrs Schörling on behalf of her colleagues in the Verts/ALE Group, and by others, that the contractual terms clearly have to include factors other than economic criteria – as we have seen from the famous Helsinki bus case. In terms of social and economic criteria this must be done in an open and non-discriminatory way as part of the published tender. That was the point we secured in conciliation and I think we arrived at a sensible agreement. This will be part of the new reform procedures that have to go out there and have to work for the sake of delivering and eventually completing the internal market. . – Mr President, in the concluding part of this package of directives, the universal service and users' rights directive, for which I have been privileged to be rapporteur, are very much at the cutting edge of the whole package. These are things that will really mean something to all consumers and users of electronic communication services. The common position that we received from the Council was a major advance over the first reading text and I would like to thank the Council and Commission for accepting so many of Parliament's ideas and suggestions. The new text has been substantially restructured and clarified which is important for effective transposal in Member States. As part of that restructuring, the aspects of market intervention contained in this directive – and this is very strong market intervention at a retail price level – are clearly set out. It is worth reminding all of us in this House that these are very much seen as transitional measures towards a fully open market in which competition rules will reign supreme. That is the direction we want to move in. I would like to pick up on some further enhancements that we have made as a result of the second reading. I would like to thank the Council for working so closely with us and also to thank my colleagues on the Legal Affairs Committee who worked very closely with me in making suggestions. I hope that they will be pleased with the results that we have achieved. It is worth reminding ourselves that the whole essence of this universal service directive is to ensure that a core service is available to both able-bodied and disabled consumers across the single market, and also that the users' rights provisions must ensure that consumers have a right to clear contract terms, to comprehensive transparent pricing information and also a guarantee of other important services. The changes that we have particularly focused on at second reading concern some further important enhancements to the provision for disabled users. I am pleased to say that at the common position stage, we have a clear indication in a separate article about the importance of Member States providing for disabled users on a wide range of services, in particular ensuring that disabled users have the sort of choice and range of services that all other consumers expect. Those are broad-ranging provisions that will develop as services expand. The new area – that I am pleased we have introduced, and I would like to thank the Council for accepting this – is to encourage the development of clear quality standards related to disabled user provision. That is something that we have added in at this stage because it seemed to us that it was all very well having some common provisions but unless we have a way of monitoring those and making sure that those evolve with the rest of the range of services involved, then things might just stand still. We will not see disabled users being able to take advantage of new technology and new services in the way we would like them to. This is a very important provision which I am sure will have the support of all colleagues. The second area that we focused on in second reading was to ensure that small- and medium-sized enterprises also benefit from the sort of users' rights that are required for individual consumers. In a rapidly developing world, we already know that small- and medium-sized enterprises are a key target for enhanced electronic communications. We want SMEs to really buy into e-commerce, into the new possibilities afforded to them by enhanced electronic communications. They do not necessarily have the negotiating power of larger companies and therefore provision is made for them. In conclusion, I wish to talk about a third aspect which has involved us in a lot of tough negotiation with the Council, namely over "must carry" obligations which are included within this Directive. These allow Member States to impose obligations to carry public service channels and channels of specific interest on electronic communication systems. Many colleagues felt that there should be a specific extension of this to satellite and conditional access systems. The Council and Commission have told us that this is already covered fully in the access and interconnection directive, but colleagues have not agreed with that. When it comes to the compromise package that we will vote on I am prepared to recommend to colleagues that we do not support this area but on condition that the Commission assures us that it will continue to keep this under very close scrutiny when it comes to looking at the Television without Frontiers directive and also to encourage the fair access provisions. If we do that, I am sure that we can move forward to approve the whole package in what will be a major advance for the European economy and for Europe's competitiveness. – Mr President, I would like to refer to my question which is now number 52 on the question paper, which I tabled within due time specifically addressed to Mr. Liikanen, on the subject of regulatory impact assessment. This is a subject which I know he is very capable to deal with, since I have participated in a number of seminars organised by his services. When I arrived in Strasbourg this week, I discovered that this question was not down for a reply by Mr Liikanen, and Parliament's services told me that it had been reclassified by the Commission – I understand, by President Prodi's services – as a general question, and that therefore it would not be covered. I have two points to make to the President. Firstly, I have discussed this with Mr. Liikanen and, if we have time to reach it this afternoon, he is certainly prepared to address the subject, if not necessarily the full scope of the question. The broader issue is, could we ask the Parliament's services – and I am not blaming them in any way because this is a Commission issue – to ensure that if a Member's question is reclassified in this way, and is not down for an answer by the Commissioner to whom it is redirected, we are told about that, so that it can be reformulated if necessary and the Commissioner to whom it is addressed can answer it. It does seem to me, Mr President, from the point of view of this Parliament, that it is perfectly possible for the Commission services in effect to deflect a question away from a Commissioner unilaterally, without the Member concerned having any knowledge of it. Perhaps you could address that, and take it up with the services, so that in future we may be given more knowledge about these instances. Can I ask you, if we have time, to allow Mr Liikanen to answer my question? – Mr President, in all my time on the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, this is the first time that I can recall that one of our major directives has received such prominence in the Parliamentary agenda. I hope that trend will continue. In fact the report was called so early that I was not here on time, and I apologise to both the Commissioner and the rapporteur for not being here to hear their speeches. I have listened with interest to what Members have had to say and at this stage in the debate I would like to reflect on what this report is really all about. We have an objective to create the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-driven economy in the world. Patents are an indispensable part of that. I want to remind all of you here, and everyone listening to this debate, that there are hundreds of thousands, maybe even millions of people across the European Union working on inventions that have been protected by patents. That patentability has stimulated investment to develop those inventions into products that the world wants to buy. What we are talking about here is a regime that is legitimately going to encourage invention in all fields. Part of the problem we have had in dealing with this is that a lot of the issues that have been raised have come from one particular direction of creativity: writing elements of computer programs. Actually, patents are about protecting a genuine invention, a new way of doing something, something that is - as this directive says - susceptible of industrial application. I would like to remind colleagues that when you apply for and are granted a patent it does not have to include all the details. In today's world almost every technical and industrial innovation requires some form of computer-aided activity. Why should we deny protection to people who are working on inventions in that field? The Commission has made a persuasive case, supported by a lot of research, that we need a consistent framework so as to ensure that people know that they can get patents for these types of invention. They will also know that they cannot get patents for trivial business process inventions that should not under any circumstances be patented, and will be discouraged from applying for them. We know this is difficult to do, which is why we have argued about the wording. That is why Mrs McCarthy has done such a good job as rapporteur on this directive. She has consistently seen the importance of this in a knowledge-driven economy and has led us in looking at ways of improving and making this work better. She has not allowed herself to be diverted by all the noise around her. I hope that you will support this directive, and that you will support the thrust of the Legal Affairs Committee's amendments. There will be some other amendments but I hope you will resist some of the complicated and abstruse concepts that have been put forward by some people which will make an inventor's life far harder. It is invention and creativity that we are here to support and nothing else. I also thank the Commissioner and his services for what is an outstanding programme – the eSafety programme. I have been privileged to participate in a number of the high-level working meetings. I would like to ask two questions specifically, to add to what he has told us already. The first relates to his views about the likely development of the eCall technology, which will give automatic location of a vehicle after an accident. This seems to me to be one of the most important proposals on the table and the one that is the most feasible. It also builds on our work in mobile telephony. Secondly, I want to ask for the Commissioner's assurance that his services will consider sympathetically, in looking at the Phase 2 standards for pedestrian protection, the major contribution that accident avoidance technologies will make in that improvement in reducing pedestrian casualties. I have just seen results from German tests which indicate that the Phase 2 structural standards may not bring about the sort of improvements that we had been expecting. . – Mr President, I want to thank Mrs Hedkvist Petersen for putting together what is a balanced compromise that reflects interests across Parliament. Speaking as the rapporteur for my own committee – the Legal Affairs Committee – I can say that we were in favour of the Commission's proposal for a voluntary agreement and felt that the overall package achieved what Mrs Hedkvist Petersen wanted. It will save lives earlier than any other proposal. It also takes very seriously the need to improve design standards for cars. But – and this is a crucial issue she did not mention – it allows the industry, and everyone else involved, to tackle the issue on a broad front because we know that simply making the front end of cars more resilient in the event of a crash is a second option. We want to avoid collisions with vulnerable road users altogether through accident avoidance measures within the vehicle itself. Remember that anti-lock braking systems fitted as standard will be part of this package. We also have to look at road design, user education and many other things. This has to be a concerted effort. I want to talk about design standards because this is important. I am an automotive engineer by background; I have seen the test laboratories; I have talked to the engineers about the problems of achieving more pedestrian-friendly cars. This is not a simple issue. Some groups have been guilty of gross over-simplification about the problems involved. Mrs Hedkvist Petersen implied that the industry was not taking it very seriously, but I know from my visits that it is. Moving forward, she is right to say that we must look at a broad range of test measures. I call upon the industry this morning to join with the Commission to put together a team of all the best talents in engineering and design, together with all other interested persons, to come up with the best tests possible, given today's technology and not the 1998 technology on which the current EEVC tests are based. – I would like to follow up my colleague Mr Newton Dunn's inquiry by asking the Commissioner whether he has sought cooperation with the major Internet service providers in publicising these numbers. That would obviously be a major gateway of access for many Internet users. A linked point is the sort of cooperation he perceives is being offered by Internet service providers in being able to take down offensive sites that are reported through the hotline service. Also related is whether action can be taken on sites that are fed in from other Internet service providers from outside the European Union. – Mr President, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group I should like to very much welcome Mr Wieland and congratulate him on all the work he has done over a long period. It has been a test of endurance and, as he says, it is a complex and technical report. He has struggled with it as a lawyer. I have to say that as an engineer I also found it difficult to work with. On reflection, bearing in mind this is a first reading, I would say to the Commission tonight that it still has a lot more work to do on this with the Council. In the light of the recent communication from Mr Prodi on simpler and better regulation, this is a candidate for the Commission to have a further look at. After all, we are looking for a regulation that will make the internal market work and, as colleagues said, will also ensure a consistently high level of safety standards for users of machinery and people who work with them. Having said that this is a technical directive, it is important that I say to the Commission tonight that there are some important political signals contained in the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. In particular, there is an issue that Mr Miller and I have worked on – I know he will refer to it in a moment – which is the treatment of particular categories of lifts for disabled people, in particular those installed in private dwellings. We were disturbed when we saw the draft to find that this directive discriminated against this important category of machinery. This type of machinery operates very satisfactorily. It significantly improves the quality of life for disabled people, because it is installed in their own homes. I have seen these installations. They are engineered to very high standards of safety. We need to make sure that they are allowed to continue. It is not the business of this directive to take satisfactory equipment off the market without any basis for doing so. So we ask the Commission to make sure that this machinery is properly included. Some work still needs to be done; there are still some aspects to be considered. In conclusion, I want to say that we must put the internal market aspect to the fore, in particular the primacy of the CE markings. This is still not fully satisfactory. – Mr President, may I too offer my congratulations to you on your election as first Vice-President. I should like to provide a different perspective on the debate this afternoon. In this debate we have not heard from the people who are now supplying public authorities across the European Union as a result of the tremendous progress that has been made in opening up public contracting all over the European Union. So far we have heard nothing this afternoon about the people who are driving the economy forward because they are getting open access to tenders, cheaply and readily available by electronic means. That applies to businesses, organisations, service providers, manufacturers, contractors all over the European Union. A few weeks ago I went to see one of those companies in my constituency. It employs 80 people. Every morning it logs on to the . Five or six tenders are listed there, all for the United Kingdom. This company does not at the moment have export ambitions but the  gives it cheap, ready access to customers in public authorities to a standard format. It fulfils and puts in tenders for them every week. In this perspective I want to look at the balance between economic, environmental and social issues. That company in the Black Country in the United Kingdom employs 80 people, that is 80 much-needed jobs, and it complies with every single social requirement in United Kingdom law. It complies with all the environmental rules in United Kingdom law. It is perfectly entitled to apply for a contract. Why should that be otherwise? Why should it have to do anything else? This is primarily an economic instrument. That is what it was designed to be to begin with. We may want to add to its social burdens – and plenty of colleagues over there would like to do that. We will have many more debates with Mrs Thorning-Schmidt and other colleagues about adding to the requirements to improve the safety and health of their workers. That is fine. If companies comply with that, they should be entitled to apply for contracts. I want to pick up on Mr MacCormick's points, because methinks he protests too much. On the question of the Helsinki bus contract, surely it was up to the Helsinki authorities to decide, before they put the contract out to tender, what was the optimum and most environmentally friendly bus that they wanted? It is not part of public contract to require the bus manufacturers to do an environmental appraisal for Helsinki before they then submit the contract. If the Helsinki authorities had said that they wanted 100 buses powered by natural gas and that is the contract, then fine, if that is what they want to do. But it should be done on an open and consistent basis. Finally, I want to turn to this question of thresholds. This seems to be the most extraordinary debate. I particularly refer to one of the opinions from EMAC, in which our colleague, who unfortunately is not here, said he wanted to simplify matters by raising thresholds but at the same time he wanted to allocate 15% of contracts to SMEs. Does he think that by removing a substantial number of contracts from the public procurement regime, by raising thresholds, he is going to improve the situation for SMEs? What sort of world are we living in? This is an area where we want SMEs to compete. We want local authorities to put in contracts on a consistent open basis that will give our citizens value for money. We want to oblige them to do that. Just because they find it difficult, because they think it costs them money – probably because they do not want to comply with all the requirements – they want more discretion to give contracts not on an open basis. That is what raising this public threshold is all about. We should not do it. It will undermine the value of a system that is working well already. That is what we should be looking at: improvement, not destruction. – At the last part-session, I raised under points of order, this whole question and asked the presidency to give this House a comprehensive report about the state of reform discussions as soon as possible. So far, we have not had this report and I emphasise here the concerns of my colleague Mrs Morgan. In my report, that was passed by a very big majority in this House, we set the linear career structure on merit as the centre-piece of the reform. But it appears from comments being made by one of the Vice-Presidents of this Parliament in the newspapers and  to this House, that the whole issue is now not regarded as important by the Bureau. I hope I have the support of all colleagues in the House in saying that we still consider this the centre-piece of the reforms and we do not see any reason why Parliament should not follow a similar line to that being taken by the Commission in this crucial area. – Mr President, I think there are more fundamental questions to be asked following on from what our colleague said. If you look at the total amount of debating time that we had at September I and II and the fact that we are finishing now, the question is why did we need to have two sittings in September at all? It simply is not necessary with the new Rules. I would ask you Mr President to take back to the Bureau that we are already seeing the highly desirable impact of the Corbett report on the Rules changes. We need to evaluate how many weeks we need to be working here, because, President, we are desperately short of committee time in this Parliament. We have a ludicrously small amount of committee time between now and Christmas to deal ...  It is true Mr. Posselt, and I will show you the agenda for my committee. We have a ridiculously small amount of committee time, and we should not be wasting time sitting around here waiting for something to happen, when we could be doing serious political work in Brussels in committee. Contrary to what Mr. Schulz is saying a true democratic Parliament would have a serious look at its workload and – I thank you for the interruption Mr Posselt – I believe there are many people who agree with me. Most of them have gone already, because they do not want to waste their time here on Thursday afternoon. – Madam President, I rise to draw your attention to a report broadcast by the BBC last week, about child trafficking between European Union countries and West Africa. This was a most disturbing report and I will send it to your services. On behalf of colleagues in this House who I know are very concerned about these issues, I ask that you raise this subject with the Commission and the Member States and ask whether action can be taken across the European Union to stamp out this appalling abuse of young people from a very deprived part of the world. . – Mr President, it gives me great pleasure to be able to present my report, even if for the second night running I find myself speaking in the last debate of the day. On behalf of all my colleagues on the committee, I hope that we can request the services to give the internal market a rather more prominent place in future. As you said in your introduction, my report is about the Commission's strategy paper, Delivering the Promise. That will be very much the theme of my speech. But I want to say, for the record, that I have also been involved in considering a veritable cascade of other documents that the Commissioner sent us over the last few months. I have also considered the second Biennial Report on Mutual Recognition, the State of the Internal Market for Services and the Internal Market Scoreboard No 11, a very colourful document I am sure you have all read. Before I move to the substance of the report, I should like to say that it is a privilege for me to have succeeded, as the committee's rapporteur on internal market strategy, my very good friend, Mrs Palacio, who was such a tremendous chairman of our committee and did so much to champion the cause of the internal market. She has now gone on to higher things as the Foreign Minister of Spain. I have had the pleasure of working on this report by a happy coincidence during the time when the 10th anniversary of the internal market was marked. We were very pleased to welcome Commissioner Bolkestein and Mr Benson, the chairman of the Competitiveness Council, to Parliament back in November 2002. I would like to thank them both for enthusiastically promoting the cause of the internal market during that time. In his speech then Mr Bolkestein asked us to produce an ambitious and hard-hitting report. I think I have managed that, but I could not have done it without a lot of support from my colleagues. You will see tomorrow that I am confident this report will get the overwhelming support of the House. I particularly want to thank the shadow rapporteur, Mrs McCarthy, who made many valuable contributions, that we have included; my colleague and former President, Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado, who has done the same; and thanks to the rapporteur for opinion Mr David Martin from the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee. We have incorporated a number of his points. I hope he feels that we have done justice to his work as well. I am slightly disappointed that the Liberal benches tonight are empty. I hope that their absence means that they are content with the work we have done. However, since they are of your political family, Commissioner, I hope you will draw that to their attention tomorrow. I will highlight some of the points in this report. It is no coincidence that we have timed it now, in the run-up to the economic summit and following on the debate we had this morning. Our central recommendation - and Commissioner, we want you to take this forward from this House when you go to the summit so that the Council takes note of it - is that we want the completion of the internal market to be the top priority of the 2003 economic summit. We want the 'delivery gap' - a phrase that you appropriately used, Commissioner - to be closed. We want the new Competitiveness Council to address the issues seriously and make a difference. Naturally, we want the deficit revealed on your scoreboards in Member States' transposition to be closed. We also want to see quicker and more effective action taken where the Rules are being flouted. As part of the Better Regulation Initiative, we want to deal with the problems of over-complex, gold plating of internal market regulations. We also want internal market compatibility to be introduced as part of the assessment process. We urge you to move forward quickly with the Internal Market for Services strategy. It is clear that will be a difficult measure, but it is a vital one. It will include important elements of mutual recognition, alongside harmonisation. We want the Member States to take a much more mature attitude to using mutual recognition alongside other weapons as a measure to create the single market. In our committee, we are absolutely dismayed that the sales promotion regulation, an ideal single market mutual recognition measure is still blocked in Council. We hope you will take that message back as well. I want to conclude with two important points. First, we hope that you, Commissioner, will join us and the single market in organising another Single Market Forum before the end of 2003 where we can celebrate the entry of ten new countries to the internal market. That is something in which we want to involve consumers, businesses, Member governments and Commissioners in the quest to make the internal market work better. Finally, we hope that you can get, with the support of the Council, a firm declaration of support for the completion of the single market on its tenth anniversary. We have been ambitious and hard hitting. We invite the Council to take the same approach. Mr President, just to build on my colleague Mr Provan's point of order, I should like to draw the attention of all colleagues here to the fact that 215 amendments have been tabled on the Zappalà report, which we shall be debating shortly. To pick up on Mr Provan's point, under Rule 130a it is the responsibility of all of us here, between now and the vote, to simplify the voting procedure. I am sure the Mr Zappalà would agree with that. We should take note of that lesson and ensure that when this is voted in plenary in February we have a much-simplified voting list. – Mr President, tonight British Members from three different political parties and other colleagues are going to be in agreement, which is a rare occurrence. I am not a member of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, but I particularly want to commend Mr Cappato and colleagues here tonight for their courageous stand in amending the Commission's original proposal. I was sorry that we did not uphold all of Mr Cappato's report last time. This compromise has all the hallmarks of a compromise. In other words it is not terribly satisfactory but at least it is better than the original proposal from the Commission, and the amendment by the Socialist Group which I hope will not be supported tomorrow. We have to consider this essentially a transitional piece of work. I think everyone here tonight is working on legislation in the electronic age. I have worked on the e-commerce directive, the copyright directive and we are working on the electronic communications bills. What is quite clear is the immense pace and change of technology and the reconstruction of markets that is going on all the time. As a number of colleagues have said tonight, the world of electronic communications is offering immense benefits to the citizens, whether it is in their own personal access to charities or political parties or in the marketplace. What some colleagues want to do, is to shut that down. Clearly we cannot do that because it operates on a global level. That is where the spam is coming from. So we have promised something to our citizens we cannot deliver. Clearly we have to work towards a global solution that will be driven by technology. We want a global format that will allow people to tag their e-mail messages by sender and by subject. We can have the technology to give people complete control. If we adopt this proposal and pass this amendment, we will be walking away from the opportunity to create the right environment so that people can really benefit from the immense power of the new communications world. – Madam President, I am speaking this evening on behalf of my colleague Lord Inglewood who has been shadowing this for the British Conservative Group and who has unfortunately been delayed due to the inadequacies of plane transport from here to Brussels. He asked me particularly to make that point to you. I broadly welcome this as a pragmatic proposal. I do not want to reflect on what might have been. I want to address a few remarks to the Commissioner about the implementation of this proposal because it is a welcome advance that we will actually get something into the market place – and that is how we should regard it, – because companies will have the option of whether to adopt this form of company statute or not. It is entirely pragmatic and practical that we will initially have a proposal that will be subject to governments among the 15 Member States. I want to say to the Commissioner that considerable attention has to be given to ensuring that the rules for this new company statute are consistently implemented across the Member States. Currently, we have inconsistent application of company law within the existing Member States' statutes on things like publication of information, timely publication of accounts, proper completion of accounts – all those sorts of issues are currently implemented differently. This new statute has to be implemented consistently and we have to make sure that courts in Member States who will be responsible for this have the training and ability to do so. I also join in what colleagues have been saying about issues to do with taxation and company law. Mr Mayer, in an excellent report, wisely says at the conclusion that he advocates launching the European statute on a maiden voyage. Well, it will show where repairs are needed – that is certainly true. But we must not overload this with other expectations about aligning company law, particularly tax harmonisation. I join with colleagues who have said how dangerous this is as a concept. We must not overload this statute with things that it was not designed to carry, otherwise it will sink very quickly indeed. – Mr President, on a point of order, it was a big disappointment that President Prodi did not present his reform package on regulation to a Conference of Presidents open to all Members. Could you transmit this back to President Cox to say that many of us felt that as it was such an important announcement we should all have been involved in that announcement. I am sure the Commission would have benefited from that. . – I can only endorse what my colleague Mrs Buitenweg has said, on behalf of the Legal Affairs Committee. I have to say that it is rather disappointing that the two opinions from the committees have been largely ignored in the Committee of Citizens' Freedoms. It is important that we say here and now that the mere fact that we strongly approve of the principles of protecting data and that we want to move forward, and also the fact that this needs to be done quickly, does not absolve us from the job of scrutinising this proposal properly. Normally, as he knows, I am very supportive of what Mr Bolkestein does, but in this case I do not feel that the Commission has in any way justified to us the salary and status of the staff that it proposes to administer this work. I very much echo what Mrs Buitenweg has said. If this goes through as proposed, to carry out the task that we have set down here, we will be appointing someone who is substantially higher graded and better paid than someone running a major Community institution such as the Trade Mark Protection Office in Alicante – a major autonomous institution. As Mrs Buitenweg said, we do not yet know how many staff will be engaged in this process. I asked the Commission to give me more details about the establishment, the organisation, and the responsibilities and particularly the role of the assistant. Yet the Commission is proposing that we should appoint an assistant on the basis of someone who manages 1 000 staff in the European Court of Justice – now that does not make sense. Frankly, I have to say to Mr Bolkestein, if this goes through tomorrow – and I hope that we will actually have the opportunity to discuss in more detail and look at some amendments that you will accept – the fact we have come in at the end of the process has made it very difficult for those of us who want change to put forward acceptable amendments. If this goes through, you will have got off pretty lightly and I hope you will give us assurances, firstly that you will properly justify this grade and position, and secondly, that we will be scrutinising every move you make when you put it in place, to make sure that it is done properly. Mr President, I wish to begin by welcoming Mrs Schreyer, speaking on behalf of Mr Liikanen, and thank her very much for taking the opportunity to report back to us so soon on the Geneva Summit. I was privileged to be there as part of a small group of colleagues from Parliament. I want to congratulate both the Commission and the Italian presidency for the very active role they took. I am sorry the Italian presidency is not here today, but I had a chance to meet the Italian minister and his team, who played a crucial role in negotiating what was a very well-balanced declaration and action plan. I would like to pick up on some of the lessons that I learned. As far as the European Parliament was concerned, the STOA unit, Parliament's Scientific and Technological Options Assessment group – which had led the initiative to be represented there – had its own stand, in conjunction with the Commission. We were also represented at a very important earlier conference about the role of science in the information society, so there was no doubt at all about our engagement with the process. The most important thing we must reflect on is that we do not just have a political declaration, we also have an action plan and we have two years in which to make some real demonstrable progress before this summit reconvenes in Tunis. In the context of these complex multilateral discussions, that is not a very long time. We have a big challenge to show that we in the European Union and the Member States are taking seriously the need to apply and extend the benefits of information and communications technology to the developing world. As Mrs Schreyer said in the statement, the application of those tools to economic, social, health, educational and a whole range of other developments is extremely important. For me, one of the crucial lessons from Geneva – where so many developing countries showed us how they were applying information technology – is that we must develop expertise in those countries to enable them to develop projects on the ground that respond to their own particular needs, because every country starts from a different position in terms of infrastructure, economic development, learning capacity, etc. We are not looking for a one-size-fits-all solution, we are looking to disseminate our expertise. One of my particular pleas is that we focus our attention where we really can help, which is on extending and encouraging research and development capability in the developing world. We want a stronger network of computer scientists and specialists working in universities and technology institutes who are linked together by a global research network. In that way they can develop their own solutions, and also draw on a much wider learning-community to help them develop the tools that they want – the standard applications, the other ideas – and they can exchange their work with each other. The European Union has invested in the world's largest research network and we are already seeing it spread worldwide. We had the welcome news in Geneva that South Africa, for example, wants to join that network. So we can set an example. My final point concerns our engagement as parliamentarians. It was disappointing that the summit declaration did not make any reference to parliamentary engagement at all. I spoke at a meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Union with parliamentarians from many countries all over the world. There was disappointment that we are not more fully engaged but a determination that we should be better engaged in the next stage of the process. I would like to see us – perhaps with assistance from Member States and the Commission – develop a proper electronic parliament focusing on these issues, so that when we go to Tunis – and I hope that more colleagues will join us for that – we will be able to engage in the political debate. This is an area where Europe has so much to offer, but the whole engagement needs to be stepped up and integrated with an overall development policy. – Mr President, I wish to support Commissioner Lamy on the far-sighted and important programme he is pursuing. The whole question about the importance of services and opening up service markets is one we are about to address seriously within our own internal market. We do not yet have an internal market for services. I expect we will hear some of the concerns in the debates tonight when we look at our own market. However, it is absolutely right to address broader issues. After all, as Mr Lamy has said on a number of occasions, within the European Union we have the best-developed single market technologies of any trading bloc in the world. It is right that we should be leading in this field. One of the most important proposals we have worked on here is the liberalisation of electronic communications, a single framework for a converging sector. It is those electronic communications that are really opening up the way to a global trade in services that we have never seen before. It is right to anticipate that. Liberalisation is always going to be difficult. If you accept market disciplines and the opening-up of a market, you must expect reconstruction; you must expect firms to close and look for new possibilities. Surely we are not saying here that we should go back to the days of protectionism? Far from it! We want to look at how markets will evolve. That includes the developing world as well. A couple of months ago I was at an important meeting in Brussels, with representatives from the developing world talking about electronic communications and how they want to build their infrastructures. They realise that having the infrastructure in place is going to open up great opportunities for their own economies and for trade globally. That is what we want to encourage. Let us be positive about it. I urge you, Commissioner, to continue your work on this and not listen to the siren voices in this Chamber tonight that are urging you to stop or slow down. Let us move ahead! . – Madam President, before we vote on Article 26, colleagues have pointed out to me that the English wording of my Amendment No 47, which I hope the House will adopt, is not entirely clear in other languages. Therefore I should like to read out the English-language text, which refers to radio and television broadcasts. The text, for clarification, reads: "... in pursuit of a public service broadcasting remit". I emphasise the last word because that is intended to include both public service broadcasting and private sector broadcasters who work under a public service remit. I believe that is not clear in every language. I ask you to ensure that the final translation in other languages – assuming that my amendment is accepted – covers that point. – Mr President, as the joint initiator and author of this question, perhaps I might be allowed to say a brief word. I also met Mr Kinnock this morning to discuss yesterday's responses. His services told me that the report had actually been sent to Parliament yesterday for distribution to Members. So that is something that should be looked at, because Mr Kinnock made it clear yesterday that the Commission was keen to give Members a response straight away to the detail of my question. We ought to investigate this. If the Commission sent the report to Parliament, it is our responsibility that it has not been circulated. If the delay was on the part of the Commission, we should ask why there was a delay. –Madam President, once again it is a genuine pleasure to be working with my friend Mr Miller. I want to pay tribute to him for his persistence in working through this, and particularly for the masterly way in which he handled the conciliation process. This is the first time I have been involved in a trialogue, so I have been able to study the process at work. Indeed, as he says, we have reached a very satisfactory outcome. I fully supported the final compromise and, indeed, the benefits that it will deliver. It is important that we finally, after five long years, bring this to a close. In a moment I shall refer to some of the issues involved. However, it is important to add that, in delivering the sort of benefits that Mr Miller was talking about, we need to reflect the fact that a lot of other improvements to the infrastructure associated with public transport will also be needed. The buses are only part of it. That is something that we have not been able to tackle but that other committees will wish to look at. What about the principles? He quite rightly said – I tipped him off beforehand – that we will be abstaining on this. It will go through tomorrow. We certainly do not wish to obstruct it or vote against the conciliation procedure, but we feel, on this side of the House, that the principles that led us to vote against this last time – and my colleague, Mr Rübig, who will speak later, is a veteran of the previous process – are entirely consistent. So we will not be obstructing it. It will go on its way with our qualified support. Mr Miller has played the role of the man riding the last dinosaur, if I may put it that way. Commissioner Liikanen told us at second reading in the debate that he does not envisage bringing a regulation of this complexity before Parliament again. That is absolutely the right approach. I want to take the opportunity to say to the House tonight that I, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, have made a proposal to other committees and to the Commission on ways in which Parliament can exercise its political role in scrutinising and putting forward ideas for motor vehicle regulation. We have suggested that the Commission should bring to us on an annual basis a comprehensive report on its plans for future motor vehicle regulation, specifying where it is going to use the Economic Commission for Europe proposals and, indeed, covering some of the voluntary regulation process that we have talked about. That will allow this Parliament, through all its various committees, to take a serious look at the political content of regulation and not ever again become immersed for five years in this sort of complex, technical regulation – a process that we finally sign off this evening. I wish to thank the Commissioner for a very positive reply. However, I should like to put a couple of other issues to him. Firstly, would he agree that it would be desirable for the proposed directive on the internal market for services to cover gambling in this way? The issues raised by this judgment and by the complaints strike at the very heart of the issues and barriers that he is proposing to sweep away with his excellent proposal. The second issue – which he did not touch on – was the ability of governments to try and include public interest and consumer protection issues to prevent gambling operators from setting up in their jurisdiction while, at the same time, actively promoting their own state lotteries and gambling businesses. That seems to be entirely inconsistent and is also an issue that was covered by the Gambelli case. I would also be interested to have his view on that aspect. Mr President, as Parliament's rapporteur for a single market strategy, it is important to emphasise that the operation of an effective, open and competitive public procurement process is an absolutely indispensable foundation of a working internal market. I am very grateful to the many colleagues who supported my report. We in this Parliament called for the speedy completion of the internal market and particularly recalled that an effective internal market is a major weapon in the European Union's competitiveness. I want us to return to that in looking at the context of what we are examining here. We want this new proposal – if it goes through in a final form as agreed by ourselves and the Commission – to be the most effective instrument we can devise to, firstly, encourage public authorities to obey and use it. Nobody here has pointed out that the problem with the regime at the moment is that a significant number of contracts that ought to be included in this public procurement regime are not. Why are they not included? It is because the procedures are complicated, because they are being evaded. Also. the counterpart to that is that we want the maximum number of small and large firms to participate in the process. That is what an open and competitive market has to be all about. Therefore, the aims included in the revision of these directives – to make the rules clearer, simpler to operate and unambiguous, and to allow the incorporation of new technologies such as electronic auctions – have to be commended. We are basically satisfied with the direction that those proposals go in because they seem to me to be crucially important. We must move forward in other areas as well. There has been a lot of discussion tonight about issues, particularly involving sustainability and ecological procurement. However, there is nothing whatsoever in these proposals that in any way outlaws sustainable or environmentally friendly procurement. Provided that public authorities clearly specify the environmental criteria that the product or service must meet in an unambiguous and non-discriminatory way, then there is nothing to stop them from doing that. This is an instrument of internal market and competitiveness policy. It is not a fresh instrument of social or employment policy, nor is it a fresh instrument of environmental policy. We may want to ensure that those criteria are applied in a non-discriminatory way, but companies that comply with all the European rules on environment and on employment criteria must be able to tender in a non-discriminatory way. This is not an instrument for adding new provisions. Therefore, we must be very clear in rejecting any amendments that try to do that. I understand that colleagues on this side of the House are about to subject us to a whole raft of fresh amendments tonight, so we shall probably have and look forward to looking at a hundred amendments tomorrow for a vote on Wednesday. That seems to me to be an entirely unrealistic thing to do. However, unfortunately, we are forced to do that by the constraints of the timetable. Finally, I just wish to draw the House's attention to the merit of Amendment No 68 concerning monitoring. We want the member governments to monitor the application of public procurement rules better and to encourage local authorities to comply with them, because compliance with these new rules will be the test by which this proposal is finally judged. – It gives me great pleasure to present this report to the House on behalf of the Industry Committee. This is an own-initiative report by the Industry Committee and therefore it is a privilege to work on what are a relatively select number of these reports and to be the custodian on behalf of my committee. I would like to take the opportunity to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to this report and those who helped me in industry and in the Commission to make sure that we covered the ground thoroughly. I was pleased that the final report reflected all those contributions and was adopted unanimously by the committee. I hope that it will get the same level of support from the House today. This report sends a strong political signal to the Commission and Council that this Parliament wants this crucial area – the evolution of the Next Generation of Internet and electronic communication – to be reflected in the crucial decisions on research support that are about to made in the context of the Framework Six Programme. I know that a number of colleagues who will contribute here today are also actively involved in this programme. I would like to address the three key questions that I tried to answer in my report: Why is this so important? Why do we use the word initiative in presenting this to you? What do we want to look at and how are we going to achieve it? First I think the strategic importance of electronic communications and the Internet are increasingly well understood by everyone in this House. But what is the contribution for Commission and publicly-funded research? This report argues that there is a strong case for supporting pre-competitive work in the next stages of the evolution of this technology and that pre-competitive work will underlie the future competitiveness of all the industries and service providers who are engaged in this crucial business, and governments as well. With the adoption of the GSM standard in mobile telecommunications, we have seen how important pre-competitive work is in setting in place the standards, protocols, and architecture for the next and evolving stage of communications. It is clear why we should do it but what do we need to do in that context? We need to anticipate the technologies that will be needed in a world where the capacity of the whole distribution system for electronic communications is going to be far larger than it is today. That investment is going in now and will continue to go in, so we should plan for a world with a very large amount of bandwidth capacity: that is the jargon we would use for saying the carrying-capacity of the wires or the airwaves that are communicating users to users and users with service suppliers. The architecture that we should develop will be very different from the architecture we have today where carrying-capacity is constrained. One of the core areas proposed in this report is to ensure that we use the research network that the Commission is already funding – the Géant network – to use that effectively by supporting projects that will exploit that very high carrying-capacity research network in anticipation of the whole infrastructure evolution that in future will be driven by the market place. That is the core of the system architecture, but alongside that there are other public policy areas where we want to do research. Issues of security and data protection are clearly important. They are becoming more and more important as our personal data are so easily and quickly circulated. It is also becoming more important because, in the wireless connected world, we will increasingly have more devices feeding information about ourselves, houses and cars into the system. There will be a new type of personal data that is being used in a benign way to monitor the operation of our car and the security systems in our house, but if somebody could accumulate and collect that data it would be a far from benign use of it. Data protection therefore needs to be thought of differently, encapsulating data together so it cannot be amalgamated in an unauthorised way. We need to think about the new opportunities afforded by wireless technologies, how the amount of information carried in our personal devices or mobile phones can be used in commercial transactions, but also about carrying our health records around with us in case of emergency and about areas where highly confidential data will be distributed. We also need to think about the new products that will allow wireless technology to carry things like video broadcasts, access to streamed broadcasts that could be passing through and around us: how, for example, could we access our local television station wherever we are in the world, and how would we pay for that? That technology is something that will give us a real competitive advantage. I have just sketched out the 'what' areas of my three questions, so let me conclude by saying 'how' we would like to move this forward. This is a contribution to the debate on research policy in Framework Six Programme and our vote today will enable that to move at exactly the right time into the ongoing strategic discussion process. We need to ask the Commission, in taking this forward, to look at building a network of excellence around these technologies. Although this is one of the areas contained in the Commission's plans, it is clearly a priority for this particular field of technology. We are also looking for the sort of integrated projects involving the public and private sector that the Commission envisages in its proposal. In conclusion, I warmly commend this report to the House today and I would just emphasise again the importance that Parliament attaches to ensuring that the Commission takes this forward in its future strategies. – Madam President, I would particularly like to welcome Mr Kinnock’s statement and say how pleased I am to see that Mr Prodi is here, because these reforms will only be successful if they are led from the top. Therefore it is very important that he be here. I drew up on behalf of Parliament a report, which was approved almost unanimously last year, in which Parliament warned the Commission that the reforms must be implemented as quickly as possible to avoid staff demoralisation and public disenchantment. I would like Mr Kinnock to explain how he is going to move these forward as quickly as possible, because that warning is as valid now as it was when Parliament approved the report a few months ago. My second question is to ask Mr Kinnock whether he shares my great concern about the lack of interest being shown in his reforms by the Council. I have had a look at the agendas for ECOFIN and general affairs meetings over the last year, and there has been only one item about personnel, which was about freelance interpreters in March 2000. Would he share with me the view that, if the Council took more interest in his reforms, it would help their speedy and thorough implementation to achieve the end that we all want, which is the most professional and effective European civil service. – I would like Mr Kinnock to elaborate on his last answer and just to confirm, in the light of the very extensive organisational reforms, and all that is implied in some of the changes of responsibility, out-sourcing, and the new technology, whether he is really satisfied that the Berlaymont is going to be the appropriate home for the new re-focused Commission. Alongside that, I wonder if I might invite him, given that yesterday this Parliament finally received formally the package for the reform of the Staff Regulations, to say what his expectations are in terms of our scrutiny of this very important package given that it is of course tied in with a number of important considerations, such as the pay package, 'le méthode', and what he would like to see the Parliament do in terms of timing and other work on this important package. .  Mr President, on behalf of my colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, I would like to thank Mr Clegg for the work he has done and his cooperation in enabling us to bring our own ideas into the report, and also for pushing the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy to take the initiative. Many of us worked as rapporteurs or shadow rapporteurs on the electronic communications package of legislation over two years ago and it is important that we continue to show our political support and sustained engagement. After all, we all put a lot of work into it. We know it is in the implementation phase now, but it sends a clear signal that this Parliament is extremely interested in what we regard as one of the most important pieces of internal market legislation and one that enhances competitiveness. Competitiveness is absolutely crucial to the current agenda. I would like to highlight one or two points that the Committee on Legal Affairs considered in relation to our work on the universal services and users' rights directive. Firstly, we thoroughly endorse the Commissioner's opening statement about avoiding over-regulation. One specific measure in the universal services directive is aimed at ensuring that Member States do not intervene directly in the retail market to try and cap prices unless they have exhausted remedies at the wholesale level. They must be asked to keep that in mind and act on it. The second point is a practical one: we have put a lot of work into our directive on tariff transparency and publication, to encourage Member States particularly to address the issues of tariff transparency and comparison for private consumers and for small businesses. Unfortunately I have not seen a great deal of evidence that Member States have really taken that on board and I hope that will be picked up in the Commission. We would encourage you, Commissioner, and your team to pay close attention to this whole transposition, to make sure that we get the maximum benefit from this very important piece of legislation. – I would like to pick up on the Commissioner's last reply and I am delighted that he is talking about thorough impact assessment. I would like to put it to him that at the moment impact assessments that we receive attached to Commission proposals in many cases are not thoroughly done, they are not looking at the full implications, they are not necessarily independent. Would he agree with me that it is vital to have an interinstitutional arrangement for independent impact assessment so that when proposals come through this House and colleagues add burdens on business they are properly costed? Also, when the Council adds provisions to Commission proposals in common position, they should be properly costed too? Would he not share my view that this is the sort of bold proposal we want to see? I have to say that the proposals we have seen so far from the Commission on regulatory assessment are far too timid. Mr President, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group and my British colleagues, I very much welcome Mr Zappalà's tremendous work on a very complex text. I am pleased that the Commissioner has welcomed many of the amendments that were made. It is important to emphasise the crucial role that this particular piece of improved legislation will play in our overall strategy for the internal market. We witnessed the welcome launch this week, by the Commissioner himself, of proposal on the internal market for services. Clearly the cross-border delivery of professional services by people whose qualifications are mutually and unimpeachably recognised, in a manner that addresses the issues of quality and consumer protection raised by a number of my colleagues, is an absolutely indispensable part of that move forward to complete the internal market. We must be absolutely sure to see this revised proposal in that context. In that connection, more work needs to be done on Mr Zappalà's report. I and a number of my colleagues on this side of the House feel that keeping the five distinct levels of professional qualification and the definition of them is important. We have tabled a series of amendments clarifying the package of qualifications that will enable professionals to move into each of the levels that are to be mutually recognised. I hope that colleagues across the House will recognise those particular qualifications. The other important aspect of this proposal is that we need to encourage more professionals to set out their stall for mutual recognition and to accept a common platform proposal to work together to develop that. That is something that many professionals need to do. At this point I declare an interest as a professional engineer. We want to develop a common platform for Europe's engineers, but the one point on which I differ with the rapporteur is that his report seeks to impose a separate regime for engineers, devised from one particular point of view. That is premature. Europe's engineers want to work on a mutual recognition platform, but they do not want one imposed by this Parliament working in one particular direction. My colleagues and I will therefore be putting together a package of amendments that allows engineers to develop their own platform. I hope that is something which will command the support of a large majority of this House. – Mr President, as the shadow rapporteur on the Legal Affairs Committee working with my colleague Mrs Berger, I would like to thank our colleagues on the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee for accepting so many amendments from our committee. I want to focus on those, particularly by talking about some of the complexities of this regulation and making it work in practice. But, first of all, I want to join in the congratulations to Professor Monti on having the courage to move ahead with such a bold and a wide-ranging reform. I remember sharing a platform with him at a conference back in May 2000 when he set out his concerns very clearly. He has worked through that consistently. I am lending my support even though I am one of the relatively few people who have not been lobbied by the Commissioner. I know he has been very active in lobbying round Parliament for his proposal. I want to declare an interest because I have, in my former years, been a director of sales for a major car company. I have managed distribution all over the world. I am pleased that you see, Commissioner, that independent competing dealers will continue to be the foundation of providing good quality sales and service for consumers. In that connection I encourage colleagues to support the amendments that my colleague Mrs Villiers has proposed to reinforce that independence. It is crucial. I want to say to you, Commissioner, that these regulations are exceptionally complex. You have given dealers a huge range of new weapons. They need to be encouraged to use those quickly and you will need to produce clear and unambiguous guidelines, on both sales and service. We must not underestimate the service you have done for consumers by opening up competition in after-sales and spare parts. That will in fact mean more to most consumers on an annual basis. They only buy cars relatively infrequently. This across-the-board approach will be good for consumers and I encourage you to make sure that those independent dealers really have the business security they need to invest and take advantage of your proposals. – I would like to thank the President-in-Office for that comprehensive reply. However, I am concerned that, from the point of view of my own country, the United Kingdom, the current proposal tabled by the Commission would seriously undermine a proven system of consumer protection that has existed for hundreds of years. I would put it to the presidency that we already have an International Convention on Hallmarking of precious metals, which the European Union could accede to and which would provide a proven system of consumer protection without the necessity of moving in a direction that, as he knows, many countries oppose. Secondly, I would put to him that there is a major interest in the accession countries. I can send him a statement from the assay offices in Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, which are seriously concerned about this proposal and are alarmed that the Italian Presidency is pushing for a conclusion to this directive before they have a chance to accede to it. It is extremely unsatisfactory that the Italian Presidency is opening a text to which it knows that it will be difficult to find a solution and which will seriously affect consumer protection. – Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Belder for his outstanding work on this report. It is an extremely comprehensive document that involved a lot of research. The task of the shadow rapporteurs has been relatively easy because we have agreed with a lot of the content and we have been looking for ways to further improve the direction of his text. I want to pick up a few specific points in relation to issues that he has kindly incorporated in the final report. Firstly, it is correct to emphasise, as he has done, the remarkable opportunities offered to disabled people in society. The digital revolution will improve the quality of their lives and access to services. That is something we need to try to exploit together in the most effective way possible. Those of us who have sat with someone who is partially sighted and seen them use a website realise that there should be better design, and it would not cost anything. It is a question of education, training and best practice. That is something the Commission is working on, but we need to emphasise it. It is something where public authorities can demonstrate best practice and set a lead for others. As an integral part of that, it is crucial to ensure that we have the instruments in place to benchmark and give access ratings to websites, because public comparison and encouragement of best practice will stimulate everybody to move forward. That is something the Commission is also working on, but we are right to emphasise that in our report. That, of course, links in to the question of commercial services. The users' groups I have talked to – in the United Kingdom in particular – have emphasised the importance of encouraging commercial operators and commercial providers of services to make their websites user-friendly for disabled people. Those crucial commercial services – such as banks, home-shopping services, access to transport – being able to order transport and look at timetables – need to be made accessible to disabled users. They will really help them engage with this new revolution. Having those benchmarks and star ratings will encourage commercial firms to pick them up and to make their websites more accessible which will really deliver the sorts of benefits we are looking for. I am keen to encourage both of those aspects, but overall this report is extremely worthwhile. We will not support all the amendments on this side, but that is more an aspect of detail. The overall thrust of this report is very commendable and I encourage the House to give it its full support. – Mr President, the Greek President-in-Office gave us a seductive list of all the things he was working on. It would make a great change – and I say this to him with due humility - if Presidents of the Economic Council would come here with a shortlist of things they were actually going to deliver. One hundred priorities on a list means there are no priorities at all! I want to echo what Mrs Randzio-Plath just said. It would be refreshing – in fact essential – for the Economic Summit, when it meets on 21 March, to set down what its real priorities are. I would suggest - and I think all colleagues would agree with this – your priorities are to inject confidence and dynamism and a sense that the Prime Ministers of the European Union are determined to create a dynamic single market in which we will create jobs and accelerate economic growth. If we do not get investors behind that, President-in-Office, how are we to deliver all the other promises on your long list? That is what we must do. It would also be refreshing – and, as you said, innovative – to find ways to activate the European Charter for small enterprises. It would not take much innovation to talk about it for once and actually implement it. It has taken three years of inaction to demonstrate that making business start-ups easier and cheaper across the Union – something the Prime Minister is committed to doing – simply has not happened. Again, I echo what Members have said: it is about time the Member State governments started to deliver on their promises on the patent, completing the internal market, clearing their transposition deficit and moving forward on the internal market for services. President-in-Office, we are witnessing an absurd situation where a simple mutual recognition measure of sales promotion is blocked in your Council. Show us the message, take away the clutter, get down to business and priorities, come back here and then we will feel you have delivered something. Let us have an end to the laundry list economic summit! – Mr President, I would like to thank Commissioner Kinnock for his characteristically full discourse and discussion on this subject, and also for the very comprehensive material he makes available to us on the staff reform issues. We will have a chance to return to this subject, as he says, when we get the detailed proposal for the Staff Regulations. The issues that he raised were covered very briefly in the report that I prepared for Parliament back in 2000, where we indicated that we were looking for a best-practice approach. The summary he has given us certainly indicates the amount of work that has been done on that. Given that it is a highly sensitive issue and Member States will certainly be looking at it closely, the sort of balance he has achieved is going to be very much the right one. It is very important that we see this in the broad framework of recognising stable partnerships as he described it in the November 2000 discussion paper. That is really what we are discussing here. We are not talking about any particular type of partnership – that in itself would be discrimination – but recognising stable partnerships. One of the points I particularly want to raise with him is the question of children from partnerships. There have been well-publicised cases recently in the United Kingdom about the British forces. A soldier who very sadly was killed while on active service, had a stable partnership and a child from that partnership, but was not actually covered in the UK situation. That is an important point. The other point I want to raise is in connection with pension provisions and about the rights and abilities of staff to be able to decide to whom their pension should be paid and what flexibility they have in making that decision or in opting for whom their payment and benefit provision should be made in the event of their death. – Mr President, as someone who has consistently called in this House for an early report from the presidency on the progress of our own staff reforms, can I be the first to welcome the fact that we received a letter from the President yesterday on this subject. It was an undated letter but I assume it was issued yesterday. However, I should like to register again my concern that we still need more information. Mrs Fontaine says in her letter: "I believe the time has come to provide all Members with the fullest possible details". I am afraid this is not the "fullest possible details", since half of it is a letter to Mr Prodi. I should like you to ask the Bureau and the presidency to give us in this House, as soon as possible, a comparison of the proposed personnel reforms in this parliamentary institution with the reforms proposed in the Commission. And bearing in mind that on 28 October the Commission adopted their new personnel strategy, can we please have an early debate in this House with Mr Kinnock about his reforms and with the presidency about their reforms, so that Members can be properly informed. We must have a chance to debate this and to understand why the presidency of this House is proposing in one instance radically different changes to those proposed for the Commission. I, along with many other colleagues, am concerned about that different approach. Mr President, firstly, may I say to many colleagues here who are directly affected in the Limburg region, that I represent a region in the United Kingdom, the West Midlands, which has probably been more affected by structural change in the automotive industry than any other region in Europe. I want to say to colleagues from Limburg that we have had that experience and we now have a thriving automotive industry in the United Kingdom; we have more international car manufacturers assembling cars in the United Kingdom than any other country in the European Union. If colleagues from Limburg would like to come and talk to me about our experience in the West Midlands, we can show you the programmes we have put in place, not just to retrain and redeploy people, but also to help those smaller companies in the supply chain affected by changes in production. So please colleagues, do not be overly depressed about it, there are ways forward. It is important that we are having our debate today in the context of the future of the automotive industry because the issues surrounding the decision that Ford was forced to make at Genk go to the heart of our thinking on how we need to secure a long-term sustainable future for automotive manufacture in Europe, the technology and the jobs that go with it, and I and many colleagues here have a huge interest in that. We know that the car companies will continue to make and must make huge investments in the next generation of lighter and more fuel-efficient cars that we want, and our colleague from the Green Party made that point earlier; but those investments will come from profits – there is not going to be any state subsidy for those – and what we want are profitable car companies. I want to give you an important figure which relates to the Genk issue. 70% of the world's car industry's profits are generated in the United States market because that is where they sell larger cars. The reason for the lay-offs at Genk is because demand for one of Ford’s largest models has fallen off dramatically. Ford has announced that it is going to make the next generation Ford Mondeo at Genk and our job is to ensure that we have a demand for that car. My conclusion for you, Commissioner, is that we want joined-up policy. If your colleagues in DG Environment continue to press the industry to make smaller, lighter cars without any commercial regard for what is going on, then we will be back here again. If we have joined-up policy-making, however, we will have a long-term, sustainable future for automotive manufacture in Europe. Mr President, again on behalf of my British Conservative colleagues – my colleague Lord Inglewood, who worked on this, has spoken already – and my Group, I certainly welcome very much the excellent work of Mr Manders over a long period and also through conciliation. I am bound to remark, as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, that the decision that our committee should undertake this work, much contested by colleagues in other committees, has been more than amply borne out in the practical and pragmatic response that we have had, and I think we have a workable proposal. However, as a number of colleagues have said – and this is a time for looking forward rather than backwards, because we have the agreement on the table – there is a lot of work to do to establish the clear responsibilities with organisations and to ensure through the so-called competent authorities in Member States that companies' operating processes and anyone involved in potentially environmentally damaging activities are fully aware of their potential responsibilities under this directive. I want to encourage the Commissioner – who, I hope, will leave something in place as part of her legacy as five years as Commissioner – to start to encourage Member States to exchange practice, firstly, about how they are going to establish their competent authorities or, indeed, how they are going to allocate responsibilities to existing environmental agencies that many of them have already established; and to establish the sort of networks of sharing of best practice that we are seeing in a number of other pan-European regulatory environments, such as energy and communications. There seems to me no reason why that process should not start at once, and also why communications to affected organisations should not also start. This directive, as a number of colleagues have said, has a very slow-burning fuse to it. Member States have quite a generous three-year timescale. There are also long timescales before review. However, if, as we all believe, prevention is what we are after – rather than clearing up damage afterwards – we need to start action straight away and there is no excuse for delaying on that. So I welcome the agreement. However, this is only the start and I am sure – and hope – that the Commissioner will leave that structure in place for us to follow through. . – Mr President, I would like to give colleagues a short update on where we stand on this important proposal. First, may I say that your vote today will mark a further substantial step forward in the delivery of reform of the European Commission. As you will recall from our previous debates, this reform of the staff regulations brings in the major revisions and restructuring of the employment conditions and career development for staff throughout the European institutions. Colleagues, when we had a debate here in Brussels on 27 March 2003, you were kind enough to give us your support for the amendments we proposed. However, we asked you to hold off from voting on the legislative resolution to give us the opportunity, as rapporteurs, to negotiate with the Council and the Commission to sustain Parliament’s position. This is not an item of codecision, it is an item where we have an opinion. We have done that successfully and we now want you to vote on this substantially; we want to release the next stage of the discussion process – the convening of a consultation committee involving the Council, the Commission and representatives of staff and staff unions throughout the institutions. So please, support this today. The amendments we are tabling reflect the current negotiating position and ask the Council and the Commission to bring back to us further changes that they will make beyond the original proposal. We will be returning to you with two further reports in a few months' time to confirm the whole process. – I would also like to compliment Mr Liikanen on the work that he has done on business impact assessment. I would like to press him a bit further, first of all, on the timing about when he expects this consistent methodology to be working throughout the directorates of the entire Commission. Secondly; does he feel that there is a need for some independent assessment? Might there be a danger that the impact assessments being done by the directorates-general themselves would perhaps be a little too favourable towards the proposals? Thirdly, would he agree with me that the logic followed through by my colleague Mr Titley, is that we really ought to be thinking in terms of having an independent regulatory assessment unit operating institutionally, which would provide a true external verification on impact assessment for all the European institutions? Mr President, I had hoped to catch your eye a bit earlier because this concerns next week's agenda, but I hope you will agree to take the point now. It concerns the proposal to have a statement from the Commission on Thursday 6 November 2003, entitled 'Ford workers laid off in Genk'. Having worked in the automobile industry for nearly 30 years, I have tremendous sympathy with the workers in Genk and many other employees including those, in my own constituency, who are involved in restructuring of this kind. But this is a very specific statement. My understanding is that the Ford Genk plant will remain open: this is a question of adjusting production by taking off a shift because Ford wants to match production to demand. If we had a debate about every instance of that across the European Union, we would be here debating those issues every day of the week. So, can I ask you – and I hope I will have colleagues' support on this – to broaden this statement so that we can all be included, particularly those like myself who have constituents involved in motor vehicle manufacturing. Could we ask the Commission to make a statement about employment prospects in the EU automobile sector? That would allow colleagues with an interest in Genk to make their points. In that case the Commission does indeed have an interest, but I would merely suggest to you that the Commission has no business or interest in how one company wishes to adjust output to demand. We would, however, like to hear about the prospects for a crucial sector. So could I ask you, Mr President, on behalf of myself and others, to request the Conference of Presidents to invite the Commission to make a statement on that basis. It would be far more satisfactory for all of us to be engaged in that debate. – Mr President, this concerns a matter arising from the Minutes in connection with the distribution of the report promised by Mr Kinnock in response to my oral question on Monday, which was raised in the Chamber yesterday afternoon. I should like to confirm that this report is available. I received it by e-mail from Mr Kinnock’s office, but as far as I can tell it has not yet been officially distributed to Members. I know that Mr Kinnock was very keen that we should all have it as soon as possible so can I ask you once again to make sure that this is distributed. On the same topic could I ask you, Mr President, on behalf of all the Members of this Parliament, if we could have a similar report to the one prepared by the Commission on the progress of the human resource reforms as regards the work that is going on with the staff of Parliament. We are currently in a position where we know less about the progress of the personnel reforms in this House than we do in the Commission. Could I ask you to discuss with your colleagues and arrange for a statement and a report to be made to this House as soon as possible about the progress of these crucial reforms which were solidly supported by the House when it approved my report last year? – Mr President, on behalf of Lord Inglewood I should like to say that he is extremely sorry not to be here, but he is unavoidably detained in the UK for family and business reasons. This report, which I am pleased to present on his behalf and on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market is an important part of the Legal Affairs Committee's remit on behalf of Parliament to encourage simplification and good-quality drafting of Community legislative instruments. In this particular case, quite a lot of important work has been done by the Commission in incorporating and simplifying three texts related to life insurance. The source text dates as far back as 1979 and, apart from the codification process of incorporating amendments that have been made over that period into the legislative text, the reason for this more substantive report is that the Commission has found it necessary to propose a number of amendments to reflect changes that have taken place in the market since that time and to improve the overall quality and integrity of the text. I do not need to detain the House with a lot of the technical details relating to those texts. Those of you that are experts on the subject will clearly want to refer to the Commission's own text and the Commission has provided an extremely helpful and clear explanatory statement for those of us who are not, unlike Lord Inglewood, distinguished lawyers – which is why he has been able to make such a good job of scrutinising this text on behalf of Parliament. In view of the work that has been done, our job here is just to ensure that there are no political issues arising out of what is largely a set of technical amendments. Lord Inglewood has taken soundings of the industry. He has looked particularly at the texts of the six amendments, to make sure that they do not introduce any principles outside the directives' original political remit and he is satisfied in this case. Therefore, so far as his report is concerned, he is pleased to recommend adoption of the Commission proposal to the House without any further amendments. By way of general conclusion, we in the Legal Affairs Committee regard the quality of drafting and simplification of legislation as an important remit. It is worthwhile reminding colleagues throughout the House who are working on legal texts that this is a principle that we all need to bear in mind when we are amending legislative texts of any kind. When we see and look at work in other committees it is not entirely clear that colleagues bear simplification in mind. In many cases we see far too many complicated texts coming out of work done by this House. It is an important principle – maybe this is an uncontroversial issue but the principle of the quality and clarity of legislative instruments is important. I commend this report as a good example of that process. Mr President, as a number of colleagues have said as regards consumer credit, good regulation will stimulate the market, encourage consumer confidence and stimulate innovation and development across the single market. The Commission's original proposal failed to do almost all these things, and Mr Wuermeling's report, which we warmly welcome, is a significant step in the right direction and a substantial improvement. However, as a number of colleagues have said, consumer rights have to have proper enforcement mechanisms. The other two proposals being discussed tonight have that link in common. We warmly welcome Mrs Gebhardt's to achieve a compromise, which we will support because it is very important. We have also made substantial progress in developing a workable proposal on the issue of unfair commercial practices, where enforcement is the key. There is no point in having new rights for consumers unless they can be enforced. Companies need to know where they stand in relation to their national legislation and they also need to be encouraged to adopt best practice through codes of conduct. We have moved substantially in that direction. The important proposal of mutual recognition is also absolutely essential to making everything work successfully. In conclusion, this package is good for consumers and the internal market, and we will strongly support all three proposals. Madam President, I should like to welcome the Commission's proposal warmly, on behalf of my Group and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. We have been following the development of this very closely. As the Commissioner was kind enough to say, the Commission has taken notice of a number of reports we have made. I was the rapporteur for the last round, and we are currently working on a new single market report. So we will have a chance to go into detail, and I agree with the Commissioner that it would be highly desirable to start the debate in this Parliament. I hope that my committee will be able to do that so we can start consulting a wide range of interests in this extremely comprehensive proposal. It is also absolutely essential to start the progress of this through the Council. The political points I want to make to the Commissioner tonight, and on which I would like his comments, concern the Council more than anything else. I am pleased to see that we have one representative on the Council benches. It is disappointing that there are not more. As the Commissioner said in his statement, the crucial factor in getting this to work will be the willingness of the Council to accept the basic principles of the internal market: a 'country of origin' principle for supplying cross-border services, the mutual recognition of conditions of establishment and sensible behaviour as regards grasping some of these issues. I do not need to remind the Commissioner – although he may wish to refer to it – that the Council's record to date in dealing with these issues has, frankly, been deplorable. The sales promotion mutual recognition directive – which is an integral part of this – has been with the Council for 15 months. Under the Commissioner's proposal we face the position where we will be able freely to establish marketing agencies in other countries, but they will not have a common set of principles. I would like to hear the Commissioner's views about how he is going to work with us to get the Council to accept a serious timetable for dealing with these issues and how it is going to perform its part of the packages on the table. Colleagues, if we do not have the support of the Council we will get nowhere. This is the crunch time for the internal market. Unless the Council comes to terms with this proposal, then it is not serious about Lisbon and not serious about the internal market. Frankly, the Council's acceptance of this directive is the biggest challenge that the whole Lisbon proposal faces. The Council must get on with it. – Mr President, I am very pleased to be participating in this debate, not as a member of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport but as one of the rapporteurs on the electronic communications package and a member both of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. I should just like to say to colleagues from the Committee on Culture who are present that this is not an issue for that committee alone. It would be good if they encouraged more participation in their work within Parliament. This question was developed entirely within their committee. I am glad to have been able to work with many colleagues and to make a contribution. However, there is a much wider range of issues at stake here. Firstly, I sense a perception that this whole idea about a multimedia home platform (MHP) is somehow a silver bullet, a magic cure that will, in one sweep, create universal accessibility for digital television. Mrs Echerer gave us a hint of that just now. That is far from the reality. It is not like mobile telephony; it is not like introducing a GSM standard, because we already have digital television systems in the market, delivering services that consumers want to quite a high interactive standard. In my own country nine million people already have systems operating under other standards than MHP. Indeed, the final standard – the full interactive standard – for MHPs has not even been published, and yet colleagues here want to rush ahead and standardise it. That is not realistic. I also find a lack of realism about the whole idea that somehow we want to impose a particular business model on broadcasting. This resolution contains a rather unnecessary attack on vertical organisation and my group, and I hope Parliament, will reject that element. As the Commissioner said earlier, this is an issue on which I and other Members have worked in connection with the electronics communications package. We have put competitive instruments in place to stop vertical operators from abusing their dominant position in the marketplace. There are also must-carry obligations that we expect member governments to enforce. The first thing we should be saying to the Commission is that we want them to be enforced. They are critical. It is not up to us to enforce a particular business model. We are not there to do that. On the question of application interfaces and the technology, the key word is 'interoperability'. It is not a single standard, and just having a single standard does not mean you automatically get simple authoring or interoperability. We have three mediums in the United Kingdom already – cable, terrestrial digital – a powerful access for people to get onto the digital system – and satellite. Each of those has a different interface. The Commission needs to encourage what I call a toolkit for digital authors. That will allow digital authors to come on and have a common set of principles within which they can develop programmes for any platform. That is the sort of practical thing the Commission needs to work on. It certainly needs to monitor how MHP is developing and to see whether that needs further encouragement. However, we are already well down the road to the digital revolution already, and the sort of interference that is being implied by some colleagues here – I am pleased to say not in the resolution – will not help the way forward. We must be realistic about what is going on in the market-place and what consumers are buying now. – Mr President, I am delighted to welcome the statements of the Commissioner and the President of the Council both on behalf of my Group and as the Legal Affairs Committee's rapporteur on the internal market strategy. These statements are very important and very timely. From my own point of view as a British Conservative Member who joined this Parliament three years ago and who has been consistently engaged in internal market activities since then, it is the first time we have had a statement of this kind. It does mark something of a milestone for me, and I hope for the Parliament. We must ensure that we do not have such a long gap between these sort of engagements and discussions about future strategy. I also hope, on the tenth anniversary of the 1992 programme, that colleagues will not mind me mentioning that it was a British Commissioner, Lord Cockfield, who was responsible for pushing that programme through with the active encouragement of the British Conservative Government under Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. This tenth anniversary provides us with an important opportunity to launch a new initiative to push on further and faster with the drive towards completing the internal market, shifting it into higher gear. That can only be done by engaging all of the European institutions, business and consumer organisations in a much more powerful coalition. There is a sense in which we have taken the internal market too much for granted. As both the Commissioner and the Minister said this morning, that certainly is not the case. I want to say to Commissioner Bolkestein that, as the rapporteur for the committee, my draft report is certainly going to be hard hitting and ambitious. I hope my colleagues will support me, and I think they will because the Legal Affairs Committee has been a strong supporter of internal market policy. We have had lively debates, but the general direction will move towards the sort of programmes that the Commission wishes to encourage. We are certainly prepared to rise to the challenge of creating the internal market for services. That is going to be difficult and will need a lot of political support, which, Commissioner Bolkestein, we will give you. As for the Council, I would like to commend Mr Bendtsen very much on his leadership on this issue and on launching the Competitiveness Council. You do not need to wait for the Commission to take initiatives to move this forward. Looking at this report about the barriers to services in the internal market – which, colleagues, I urge you to read – it is clear that Member States could now get on with the task of freeing up business establishment, removing the bureaucracy about the launch of small businesses and encouraging service businesses to establish in other countries. Those of you in the Competitiveness Council could take that initiative next time you meet. You do not need to wait for the Commission. This is the sort of positive approach that we want to see the Member States making and clearing up the sort of deficits in transposition that Mr Bolkestein identified earlier. So, please, Council, take the initiative. In conclusion, a few months ago Mr Bolkestein published an article on the Parliament's work on sales promotion directives, which was headlined 'Parliament comes to the rescue of the internal market'. We are not here just to rescue it, we are here to drive it forward and that is what we intend to do over the next 12 months and beyond. – Mr President, I warmly welcome, on behalf of my colleagues in the United Kingdom Conservative Party, this very elegant and simple proposal for reform of the single market. It will perhaps surprise colleagues that the regulatory content of this regulation before us occupies eight clauses and three pages and yet we had 200 amendments. Part of the problem – I say this particularly to the Commissioner because I know he is sympathetic to this – is that despite the fact that the single market is at the centre of economic reform of the Lisbon goals, when a simple proposal for reform is put forward we are in the extraordinary position that a significant number of Member States oppose it and, indeed, Members seek to change and dilute it. We have reached an acceptable compromise, thanks to the heroic efforts of Mr Beysen. I am confident we will get a strong majority for this tomorrow and it is absolutely right that we should. How can we justify in the single market today a position where people shopping in Antwerp will get entirely different deals, offers and conditions to people who shop in Rotterdam, only a few miles away? That story is repeated across the European Union. The purpose of this regulation is to empower consumers to make choices in the single market, by giving them information and allowing them to exercise their choice. A lot of the proposals and a lot of the amendments by the Socialist Group, which I am sure we will reject tomorrow, reflect the old mentality of trying to tell consumers what is best for them. That world has gone! We are talking about an Internet world where people can shop all over the European Union and where businesses can put out offers to them. This is a crucial measure. In conclusion, I want to thank the Commissioner for the remarks he made in the commercial communication, where he said Parliament comes to rescue the internal market. This side of the House and this committee shall continue to do that. We shall also rescue Europe's consumers from the over-interference that some colleagues are proposing. – Mr President, if you had given me the floor first, as rapporteur, I would have been able to cover the point raised by Mrs McCarthy. Could I just formally ask you for a separate vote on Amendments Nos 2, 11, 23 and 24? I have been asked to do this as a formality, even though it is included in colleagues' voting lists. Could I also say to colleagues that this is part of the compromise package we discussed. I want to make it clear in your voting list, colleagues, that the first part of Amendment No 15 is part of the compromise text and I am recommending you vote against the second part. My Amendment No 36 is also part of the compromise text, and for clarity for colleagues on the Legal Affairs Committee, this is the amendment you voted on in committee with just the addition of the word 'television' after 'digital interactive'. That was a compromise. I agreed with the Council to clarify the wording – there have been no other changes. Can I also make it absolutely clear that Amendment No 11 is also a compromise text and that is shown at the bottom of your voting list. I turn now to the points quite rightly raised by my shadow rapporteur, Mrs McCarthy, on the question of 'must carry' obligations. This is an issue that many colleagues are concerned about and reflects Article 31 of the proposal. I am recommending that you vote against the committee amendment as part of the compromise but I would ask you, Mr President, to give the floor to Mr Liikanen. He has prepared a statement clarifying the access provisions for public service broadcasters in the whole electronic communication package. That access provision is the key concern of colleagues. So, can I ask you to give Mr Liikanen the floor? Madam President, am I right in thinking that there will be an opportunity for questioning the Commissioner under the catch-the-eye procedure at the end of his statement? You did not actually say so at the beginning, but I very much hope that I and other colleagues here will have the opportunity to do so. Mr President, I would like to join my colleagues in thanking Mr Rothley very much, not just for this report but for the sustained campaign that he has run over many years, as the Commissioner indicated, to improve the whole insurance climate for Europe's motorists. I think he deserves a lot of credit for that, and it reflects well on Parliament too. Since I joined the Parliament in 1999, I have had the pleasure of working with Mr Rothley on this subject in which I have taken a particular interest. I contributed to the 2001 report and am delighted to say that a number of the ideas that flowed from that are now incorporated in this very welcome Fifth proposal from the Commission. Mr Rothley and others have talked particularly about issues of improving the ability of motorists to claim damages for accidents outside their own country. I want to focus on a few other detailed points. Many of us have dealt with constituency cases concerning the difficulties of people temporarily moving to other countries – particularly students or people taking up work or even citizens wishing to make long-term stays. They have difficulty in getting their insurance extended for that temporary stay and having insurance extended for up to 12 months. I think this is a very important benefit. Secondly, we are concerned in our committee about the internal market and simplifying the regime which allows citizens to go and buy a car from another country and have their existing insurance extended for 30 days while they bring that car home and have it re-registered. This is just an important simplification. It underlines the fact that in the internal market, citizens expect to be able to have these rights delivered across borders without inconvenience – that is really what this proposal is all about. In a similar vein, making insurance purchase easier and more competitive, by enabling citizens to get their insurance claim records delivered to them wherever they have had insurance previously, so that they can use their past clean record to gain important price and coverage benefits for their insurance is an important benefit. In conclusion, Mr Karas has talked about some of the improvements we have made, and I agree with him about some of the areas into which I think we have intruded too far into Member States' prerogatives. One area which has been drawn to my attention in the last few days is the right for claims to lapse after four years. In my own country, the United Kingdom, that cuts across national provisions. There are strong arguments for having a look at this again and this is something I will talk to the rapporteur about. We need to discuss whether we should support that provision in the final report or ask the Commission and Council to look at this before it finally comes back. Overall this is an excellent piece of work. It has our full support, and I would like to thank both the Commission and the rapporteur for the work they have done in moving this important benefit forward for all of Europe's citizens. I should like to point out to the House that significantly more jobs are being lost in four plants in the United Kingdom as a result of this closure than anywhere else. I am glad, therefore, to have the opportunity to ask some questions and to send our sympathies to those people involved. My questions are actually directed to Mr Bolkestein, and I hope you will allow him to answer them, as the issue is about how well the European rolling stock market is really operating and whether public procurement rules really are operating successfully ...  ... I hope in that case that Dimas will be able to pass my questions on. They are important and highly relevant to this discussion. In France, for example, there is not, according to my information, one single piece of rolling stock running on railways that is not manufactured in France, and yet in the United Kingdom a large number of rolling stock units are imported from across Europe. I do not mind that because the single market for rolling stock should be allowed to work. However, it is seems to me that the public procurement market is not working satisfactorily in the area of rolling stock. We should ask the Commission to look at this. We should also ask you, Commissioner Dimas, to ask your Observatory for Industrial Change to look at the whole scenario for employment in the railway rolling stock industry, as it is already doing, for example, in the automotive industry. Mr President, I wish to support my colleagues who have taken a very broad-ranging view of this important proposal. This is not specifically about the digital world. It is about the future of the European economy and about the ability of any manufacturer who has intellectual property rights, whether protected by patent, copyright or registered design, or indeed by any other form of ownership, over a creative work or design that they have genuinely originated, to be able to protect and sell their products in a legitimate way, reap the profits and create jobs within the European Union. We are talking about the procedure and timescale because we all know that as from the enlargement of the European Union on 1 May there will be major concerns about the inability of intellectual property owners to enforce their rights across the enlarged European Union. Many of my colleagues have given graphic examples of the problems associated with the counterfeiting on a large scale of physical goods that are being shipped into the European Union and essentially sold illegally, thereby depriving people of their legitimate livelihoods. Let us put matters into perspective, since this is the nub of the issue and is why we have supported Mrs Fourtou in her work with the Council aimed at reaching a genuinely balanced compromise that will be in place on 1 May, thereby ensuring we do not have to wait another six to nine months to deal with this problem. We are in the real world now, and this is not some theoretical piece of legislation but something that will actually protect jobs in our constituencies. As we move towards a world in which more and more goods are coming into the European Union from countries, such as China, that are new members of the World Trade Organisation and where intellectual property enforcement is at best very weak, we have to be able to protect ourselves in a legitimate and balanced way. That is what is at stake, and those of you who are contemplating amending this proposal with the result that it is not in place on 1 May will have to answer to manufacturers in your constituency when a container load of counterfeit goods from China arrives through an accession country on their doorstep in June. You will have to answer for the impact this will have on local jobs and local manufacturers. . – Mr President, I find myself with the unexpected privilege this evening of speaking second in this debate. I speak on behalf of Mr Gargani, the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, in whose name our opinion stands. That is due to the chivalry of my colleague, Mr Koukiadis, who is here tonight and who is the original draftsman of the opinion. He tried in vain to persuade our committee to support the thrust of the Commission proposals. By a convincing majority the Committee on Legal Affairs voted in a series of sensible modifications that would have blunted some of the harm that this directive, if it is not changed, is going to do to the economy and employment throughout the European Union. I thank Mr Koukiadis for doing the decent thing and laying down his report. As the second speaker, I want to pay tribute to Mrs van den Burg. I have not had the pleasure of working with her before. She has worked in a very open-handed and friendly way. As she said, she has taken advice from a lot of people. Unfortunately, she has not listened to that advice. I am pleased that a number of other groups have supported the thrust of our amendments and I thank members of my own political family for going along with some of our ideas. The problem is that, as amended, the proposal from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs does not achieve the sort of flexibility that its advocates, the Commission and the rapporteur, were claiming. It has become more intrusive – there is more regulation. My concern about this report is that it fails to accept that high-quality temporary work, delivered by a caring and well-run agency, is not just a second best for employment. I wish to conclude by thanking the Committee on Employment for accepting one of my amendments which states: 'Member States shall transpose these provisions in a manner consistent with promoting job creation and making temporary agency work more attractive, recognising the different circumstances pertaining to their own territory'. If you had achieved that, I would have been delighted to support the directive. – It is a pleasure to be speaking under your gavel for the first time and to offer you my congratulations, and I hope I can have 10 seconds extra at the end for saying that. It is a pleasure once again at second reading, to be supporting this very important measure on behalf of my group and also to pay tribute to Colette Flesch for the energy and time that she has put in, particularly in handling very astutely the negotiations with the Council and the Commission over the last few weeks, so that we quite rightly have a compromise deal which I have signed up to on behalf of my group, and which we urge your colleagues to support tomorrow. One of the crucial reasons for that, as Mrs Flesch mentioned in her speech just now, is that we need to get this new .eu domain name operational as quickly as possible. We are working in a crowded market, colleagues. The .eu has to survive in a whole world of new domain names, and it will only be of real value to commercial organisations and NGOs and other institutions who want to use it, if the procedures that are put in place for registration are the best possible that can be achieved. People want to be able to have their registrations handled quickly and clearly and to have the sort of guarantees about their copyrights and trademarks that we expect, because after all, with the institutional backing it has from the European Community over all the European Union, people will expect it to be nothing less than the best. It is going to be under scrutiny, so best practice is all-important. But we must get this done and get it through as soon as we possibly can. We look forward to the declarations of the Council and the Commission. I will be withdrawing my amendment, which put down a specific timescale of 6 months for getting the registry authorised, or rather to get the tender documents out in 15 months overall. I have been criticised in the industry for being too generous, so I hope that will be the absolute maximum. We look forward to hearing your declaration, and I should like to say in conclusion that this is an important measure, which must be done well and be done quickly. , Mr President, it gives me great pleasure this evening, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, to give our opinion on what is an excellent report. We started work having the benefit of the full text of the rapporteur, Mr Huhne's report, and so our role was very much to improve on what we felt was already an excellent text. From the perspective of the legal Affairs Committee, which was responsible for the E-commerce directive, we feel that the rapporteur's thrust – as he emphasised just now and in relation to the country-of-origin principle – is in line with our own opinion. We would add our voice very strongly to that of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in encouraging the Commission to move down this line. I want to pick up a couple of points on our amendments. We are very grateful to the rapporteur for accepting all of the amendments of the Legal Affairs Committee and to the committee for voting them into the final report. We lay particular emphasis on the question of a payment and payment systems. It is quite clear from recent studies across the European Union that one of the things that is deterring consumers from shopping in the electronic age is worry about the security of their payments. This will be absolutely crucial if financial services are to move forward. So we have suggested a number of methods for improving the security of electronic payments. We have encouraged the Commission, particularly, to take a look at emerging forms of electronic payment. While at the moment a very high level of consumer transactions are made by credit cards, we think that new formats will emerge and that the Commission needs to take that into account. In conclusion, legislation has to enable contracts to be concluded by means of electronic signatures in financial services transactions. We pointed that out as a specific area to be addressed. This is a very good report. I encourage the House to give it its full support when we vote on it tomorrow. – Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of my colleague Klaus-Heiner Lehne, who is the shadow rapporteur for our group. It was important for him to attend the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market that is taking place now. It is unfortunate that those clashes cannot be taken into account in scheduling these debates, because this is a major piece of legislation from our committee. I wish to thank Mrs Berger for a very comprehensive and thorough piece of work and for being very persistent in presenting her arguments to us. It must be said that our group – and I hope many colleagues will agree with us – has tabled a number of crucial amendments to this directive. We believe they reflect the overall balance of opinion in this House about the importance of maintaining an entirely consistent approach to our work in this absolutely crucial area, and a consistent approach to the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market in the areas of electronic commerce and in creating the internal market as a whole. I suggest that we in this House have been entirely consistent. It is the Commission and the Council that have moved away from the direction that my colleague Mrs Oomen-Ruijten established at first reading. In the e-commerce directive we established the principle of country of origin as being crucial to e-commerce transactions. In our work on distance marketing of financial services, where we robustly supported the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, we followed that line as well. The whole project of creating a single market – an internal market for financial services – is one of the most important projects we are working on at the moment in terms of meeting the Lisbon objectives and creating the sort of dynamic economy that we must have across the European Union. The distance marketing of financial services directive does not just apply to e-commerce but is crucial in terms of moving to a single cross-border market. But what do we find? We find in the proposal from the Council that the 15 Member States will be able to vary requirements on two crucial elements: prior information given to consumers and aspects of the right to withdrawal from contracts. What sort of single market will we create? What sort of signal will we be sending to the Council and to the market outside if we accept a proposal from the Council that allows 15 different sets of conditions to go forward? I suggest to you – and I hope this House will take forward our recommendations – that when we vote tomorrow we should not accept this compromise. It is not satisfactory. Conciliation is the only way to resolve it, but we must be consistent with the principles of this House. I ask you, on behalf of the group, to support those amendments. – I would like to thank my colleague, Mrs Ludford, for tabling this question. I would like to ask the Commissioner to expand on a genuine cross-border problem in the theft of mobile phones: their extensive use in a form of carousel fraud on the VAT authorities in different Member States. This is being used by sophisticated organised criminals and is therefore something that, I hope, he will be taking a serious interest in. The issue of using the IMEI numbers is clearly a first step, in that bulk transactions of mobile phones should only be authorised if the IMEI numbers are checked to make sure those phones have not already been subject to a previous fraudulent transaction. Second, I suggest that measures should be taken that would allow VAT on mobile phones to be paid directly to the tax authorities so that criminals cannot get their hands on the proceeds. Finally, I am happy to send the Commissioner documentation from a major mobile phone trader in my region. This undertaking is being discriminated against by the German VAT authorities. This is actively discouraging legitimate business and will simply be handing this business to fraudulent traders. I hope that he will be able, with the assistance of DG Tax, to take some serious action to stop the German authorities penalising legitimate trade in this area. Mr President, it is a pleasure to be speaking here tonight with many colleagues who have worked on this report. I am here on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which strongly supported Mr Paasilinna in its opinion, and I would like to thank him as rapporteur and my colleague Mrs McCarthy, who was the draftsman for the opinion that I also worked on. From the perspective of those of us who work in the field of the internal market, it is important to emphasise that this is one of the reasons cited in particular for setting up the Information Security Agency. It is becoming increasingly apparent that questions about the security of computer networks and confidence in them are very much in the minds of the people we want to encourage to take up electronic commerce and enjoy all the benefits of the broadband infrastructure, whether accessing commercial or public services. Therefore this new centre of excellence to significantly step up cooperation between Member States in this area is of vital importance. It is essential for the competitiveness of the European economy and for the development of the information society – something that I know you, Commissioner, are very keen on – that we should start to pool our resources and address these crucial issues. It is a tribute to my colleagues who have worked with the Italian presidency and with the Commission that we have managed to get an agreement. Speed is of the essence. However, we must not allow speed to compromise the search for excellence. I know you, Commissioner, will be looking for the best possible people and the best possible operating structures to put in place so that this agency really can contribute its expertise as soon as possible. Because it is a best-practice agency – and this is something we particularly emphasised in our report – it has to adopt the best possible practice in its own security and the way it operates its own systems, to set an example to everybody else. I am sure that all of us look forward very much to working with the new agency and seeing it contribute to the undoubted success of information society measures that we have supported so consistently in this House. – I should like to thank the Commissioner for that interesting reply. However, I would like to put to her that in the real world, a Confederation of British Industry survey of over 200 companies in the United Kingdom, which has more temporary agency workers than any other country, indicates that her directive will result in 60% of these companies employing fewer temporary workers. I also want to put to her the results of that survey which show that 40% of people entering temporary work come from the pool of long-term unemployed and 40% get permanent jobs within a year. I would like her to tell me how her position on this directive and those findings square with the report from the Commission and the report that has just come out and which states that 'without additional efforts, the Union looks set to miss its employment rate target for 2005'. I must point out to her that the UK already meets the 70% employment rate target. How can her stance on this directive, and its practical application among businesses that employ temporary workers, in any way be squared with the target to reduce unemployment across the European Union? It simply does not make sense. As the Commissioner for Employment she must take notice of what people are telling her. – Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, in my short remarks I want to address one of the priorities that President Prodi outlined this morning. This concerns the right regulatory environment; colleagues will have copies of the text. Now it is not surprising that, in the ten pages here, the section on the right regulatory environment is by far the shortest. The Commission has not even been able to find one page of good things to say about it! And why, colleagues, is that? Because despite all the fine words about having a deregulatory model, about creating jobs, about freeing up business, about – I quote – making the European Union the cheapest and the easiest place to do business, in the year since Lisbon we have seen a catalogue of failure on almost every front. Take my own country, which claims to be in the lead of the new economy. Every business organisation and every survey confirms that more and more regulation and red tape has been piled on British business over the last twelve months. When I go and see companies in my constituency they say to me: "Mr Harbour, we have reached the stage now where politicians are spending more time sending us new regulations about protecting and looking after our existing employees than actually encouraging us to create new jobs". I took notes throughout the speech by the President of the Council this morning and the question of deregulation was not mentioned once! But what did she mention? On top of everything that was agreed at Lisbon we are going to have a new ecological dimension to this programme and, far from the virtuous circle that Mr Goebbels was talking about this morning, we have a vicious circle. Once we actually created new jobs; we are now looking for new burdens to place on business in the new ecological dimension! I would just like to mention one point to President Prodi concerning an important conference on the economy two weeks ago, to which he kindly invited me along with other Members. (He might have invited me in December, by the way, when he invited everybody else but I did get my invitation about two weeks beforehand). I was able to go to a short part of it and, across the European economy, businesses from every country were saying if we are going to achieve the e-economy, do not over-regulate it. – Mr President, I shall also focus my remarks on the Green Paper communication. I would like particularly to invite Mr Byrne to confirm to the House that the provisions of last week's Communication by President Prodi on simplifying and improving the regulatory environment will be applied in full to the extension of his proposal. I would also particularly like him to confirm that he will be undertaking a full regulatory impact assessment of this wide-ranging proposal and that he has not excluded the possibility of meeting the undoubted requirements he has set out for improving the quality of consumer protection by means other than a directive. In conclusion could I also invite him to confirm to the House tonight what he said to the Legal Affairs Committee the other week, namely that the sales promotion regulation continues to have his full support and is entirely compatible with the suggested proposals. – Mr President, I really can only echo what my friend and colleague, Mr Miller, has said. He and I alternate from one side to the other as rapporteur and shadow rapporteur of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market on these technical files. I can also reveal to him that not only have I been nominated for this task in the Legal Affairs Committee, but I currently have on my file six other technical regulations – wearing my other hat – for the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. Perhaps it is because I was an engineer in my previous life. But seriously, we must consider first of all the whole way in which this work is to be carried out. This is an important directive. We should not underestimate the importance of it. I thank Mr Miller for the work he has done on basically sorting out the finer details of it although, as he said, it is not really a job we should be doing. Commissioner Liikanen's services need to make sure that they are sorting out the fine detail. The fine elements of this – the technical detail that the car or component manufacturers are advising us about – really ought to be handled by him before it comes to us. Indeed, now that the Commission has acceded to the protocols of the Economic Commission for Europe in Geneva, which has been where the bulk of motor vehicle legislation in Europe is handled, we are faced with another set of issues – most of which are being handled in the Industry Committee at the moment – where Parliament does not have the right of amendment as we have with this sort of directive. That is probably right but there are still the political elements that we need to consider. In fact, Mr Miller should be receiving an invitation from me, so I am pleased to say that I had already anticipated what he was going to invite me to do tonight. He will be receiving an invitation from me to a meeting next week where I have been asked by the Industry Committee to convene a group of interested parliamentarians. I know that Commissioner Liikanen's motor vehicle colleagues will be well represented and are keen to come and exchange views with us, as are the motor industry trade associations and the European and Japanese component manufacturers, to have a look at how we handle this growing and important issue and how we relate to it politically. Essentially, we are looking for some shape of strategy and for key issues requiring a political input, so that we can then leave the technical side to the Commission. There may be then, in the case of EC regulations, simply a right of veto at the end or, if we feel that the work has not been done properly, we will simply not accept it until it comes back in its finally completed form. Then we should not have to be dealing with this sort of technical work. Hopefully, by the time we come around to another cycle of these procedures, Mr Miller and I will not be here late on a Tuesday evening, talking about the technical details of heaters, tyres or whatever it is, but we will have had a chance to make an overall political input into the scope of motor vehicle regulation. I know that Commissioner Liikanen is interested in seeing this process streamlined, not only in the fine technical detail, but also by looking at the ways in which the industry itself can be encouraged to develop its own technical regulations within an overall public policy framework and indeed, on crucial issues like safety, to be able to move beyond those and to use its own technical resources to help make better, safer and more environmentally-friendly vehicles for us to use. – Mr President, I would like to contribute to the debate this evening on behalf of my colleague, Lord Inglewood, who is a victim of the famous deer incident which has extensively been referred to already. I would like to focus on the principles behind the proposal, rather than the detail, which has been covered very comprehensively by colleagues. This is a long-standing issue and it arouses understandable emotions. It is perfectly reasonable that Member States should wish to control tobacco advertising and sponsorship and the Commissioner was quite right in his opening statement where he particularly focused on directing advertising to young people, to try and control new smokers coming into the smoking market. But I would argue still that the zeal to do this must not override the principles of the European treaties. We all know that the first time this was tried the Commission was too greedy. It exceeded those treaty powers and it lost the entire directive. In the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market – and I remind colleagues that this committee was right the first time round – this proposal runs the same risks. That is why we invite you to support our amendments. If you do not support them, you carry the risk of the whole directive falling. The second point I wish to make concerns the whole question of subsidiarity. The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market's proposal ensures that Member States take that responsibility. It derogates those powers to Member States. Mr Fiori said earlier on that it is not what we want to do, it is what is appropriate in the circumstances. There is a lot of talk about subsidiarity at present. Many colleagues are engaged in debates on subsidiarity in the ambit of the convention. This is a real test of that. You may want to do something, but it is not necessarily in the competence of the European Union to do it. That is what we are saying in this case. That we should not discourage Member States from doing it. This is the real test of how serious you are about the principles of subsidiarity. That is why you should support the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market's line when we vote on Wednesday. Mr President, I must draw the attention of this House to the fact that this is a major codecision text in second reading, for which we require a qualified majority to pass amendments. Given the relatively low attendance in this House on Thursdays - I make no comment about why that is - it is quite unacceptable for a major codecision text of this kind to be taken on a Thursday. I would strongly advise against taking this text. I speak as the deputy coordinator of my Group on the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which is leading on this text. – I should like to thank the Commissioner for a wide-ranging reply and I note that two of the central achievements are those which Parliament has pushed through very strongly. However, my concern is not the work that he has done – for which I commend him very much – but rather, for example, the delays and problems that Member States are experiencing in transposing the electronic commerce directive, passed by this House with great speed. Similarly, I see that as regards copyright in the Information Society – another fundamental plank in the legislation that he does not mention – discussion is continuing on ideas for new levies on computer disks and other issues that will fundamentally hold back the development of the e-society. Does he share my considerable concern that Member States do not appear to be taking anything like seriously enough the fundamental principles that he has enunciated and would he give us some indication that he will give positive vent to them at the forthcoming meetings? Will the Commission publish evaluation reports on both of these issues so that we in this House can put some political pressure on Member States to get on with it? – Mr President, I wanted to catch your eye before Mr Folias started, because I believe that all of us here would like to write into the record before the debate that we are recommencing this debate ten hours – I repeat, ten hours – after it was first started. I, and I am sure my colleagues, in particular the rapporteur, consider this is a quite unacceptable way of planning our business as a serious parliament on this most important subject. I shall look forward to contributing later, but I wanted that on the record now, because it is very important that you as President understand how seriously we regard the way this has been handled. – Mr President, it is very interesting that our Portuguese colleagues have brought this to our attention and we have had many contributions from them. I want to approach this from a very different perspective. I must emphasise that I do not defend managements that behave irresponsibly or take state aids and then do not deliver the jobs. If one looks at the state aid conditions – and I have seen some of the applications for my own region – there are plenty of procedures in place for clawing them back. The Portuguese authorities had plenty of ways of doing that. I say to almost all colleagues that have spoken in this debate that they are walking away from the problem. That is why I want to contribute. I could tell this House every month about cases involving more job losses than we are talking about today: companies that need to restructure, companies that are working in a global market. We have not heard the word 'market' from anyone. I remind you that we work in a market place. Companies have to produce goods that customers can afford to buy, at a profit, otherwise they cannot continue to employ people. We are now living in a global market where companies have to be competitive. It is entirely wrong to claim – as a number of colleagues on the left side of this House have – that every single closure is because a company 'wants to add to its bottom line'. The closures I have seen are because the company wants to survive in business, to continue employing people in high-quality jobs. I have been into businesses where I have been told, 'This is the component we are making today and this is the one we can now find in China or Indonesia. They are the same quality, but I can buy this fully finished product for the price I paid for the raw material in the United Kingdom.' That is the reality. What are we going to do about it? Industries that are facing that sort of competition have to look at the ways they can restructure, invest, change the process, introduce research and development. Mr Santos was the first person to mention that. We have funds from the sixth framework programme. We have research funds to put into industries for the complete redesign and reconfiguration of processes. Industries and vulnerable sectors have to start working much better together. I should like you to pass on to Commissioner Monti, who I believe should be here, the message that we need to encourage industries to work together on reconfiguring their processes in order to make better quality products more competitively and at a better price. I was amazed to see the reference to producing at a lower cost in my resolution had been taken out. Producing goods at a lower cost is crucial I come from a region where we have a traditional industry, the ceramics industry, that is facing this kind of pressure. That industry is starting to reconfigure and to work together with support from the British Government, using European funds, to tackle these issues. I went to see a company the other day that makes ceramics in competition with lower cost Portuguese producers. That company has invested EUR 55 million to reconfigure its process. It has had to lose jobs as a result, but it has worked with its trade union to do that. That is the sort of fundamental change we want. That is what the Commission has to encourage. We do not want to have any more tedious debates in this House about state intervention, about criticising managements. If we walk away from the issue and do not make European industry competitive we will continue to have this sort of problem. I have a great interest in this question, both as the Member representing the region of Stoke-on-Trent in the United Kingdom and also as the deputy chairman of the European Parliament ceramics industry forum, which has had a dialogue with both Commissioner Lamy and Commissioner Bolkestein. I should like to ask Mr Lamy if he would comment on the issue of marks of origin, and confirm that the proposals being considered by Commissioner Byrne to require ceramic articles coming into contact with food to bear traceability marks showing the factory that they are made in – to trace any problems with toxic materials that may be in the articles concerned – would not in any way contravene existing WTO obligations. As he may be aware, Commissioner Byrne's services are actively considering this proposal at the moment and are having discussions with the European industry about that type of marking. There have been disturbing cases where articles from China have been found to contain levels of toxic materials that are significantly above the limits laid down in the European Union to safeguard human health. The industry would be very grateful for his confirmation that the proposals would not contravene any existing trade legislation. – Mr President, despite the late hour it has been a refreshing debate. It is important and good that we have gathered together so many excellent rapporteurs. I thank them all for tackling different aspects of the subject. I reflect on the Commissioner's news that he has now given us another four reports to work on. We need to think about the most efficient way of making an input into the process. I congratulate Mr Van Velzen and Mr Paasilinna, who are both here tonight, on the initiative of the hearing we had the other week in which the Commissioner participated. We have a shared interest in moving the knowledge economy forward. What we are talking about today is the tools, the means and the framework in which we do that. I have detected a bit of gloom among a number of colleagues. However, it is worth reflecting on the fact that within weeks we will have the first commercial third generation services in a major country. They will be provided by a new investor in the market, not in any way connected with any of the incumbent companies. A new investor has made a commercial investment in the marketplace. Let us remind ourselves that the knowledge economy will be driven by private investment. That is where the bulk of the money is going to come from. The innovation and the technology are going to come from there as well. None of us know how and in what ways that technology is going to develop. But I think we can make one certain prediction: in a few years' time – about the most accurate forecast – we can expect that more people across Europe and the world will be connected to the Internet through a wireless device than through any other mechanism. That is the importance of third generation. Let us not underestimate it. The move to the third generation is going to open up new markets for small and large businesses. It will also take cost out of businesses and will help businesses do things differently. In Japan I have been to the research laboratories of DoCoMo, the Japanese telecoms company, where they have people inventing third generation commercial applications. Let us remember, above all, that what we must do as politicians is to let the market work. We have the right legal framework, but we have to make sure that the regulators do not intervene too soon or too harshly, and that they allow the creativity of the market to work. That is what has been successful in mobiles so far. That is what will be successful in third generation. That is what will power the knowledge economy. That is the most crucial message that we must all remember. –  – Mr President, I would like to congratulate and indeed thank Massimo Carraro very much for an excellent report. It gets to the heart of the matter. It is very well analysed and I would also like to thank him on behalf of colleagues on my committee for being very open to us. We worked very closely together and I hope he feels that our committee added value to his own efforts. I wanted to focus on a number of key issues from the point of view of the Legal Affairs Committee. This whole issue of governance of what is becoming a crucial international resource is something that is of particular importance. We are at a very important transitional stage where the European Union needs to play a crucial balancing role in moving the system of Internet governance from one that has been traditionally dominated by interests in the United States to becoming a truly global organisation. The United States Government has played an important and benign role because the initial Internet developers and technologists came from a United States background. This report quite rightly draws attention to the very crucial role that the European Union has to play in achieving this transition. The other important issue is the role of public authorities. Clearly there is an important role for public authorities but it must not become overbearing. International governance of the Internet owes its success so far to the fact that it is not based on complex international treaties. It has been the responsibility of a series of groups of experts. It is very much governed by the individuals and users who are operating the system. We should leave it that way but of course monitor it and make sure it works for the benefit of all the citizens that use it. Alongside that, the other crucial issue for the Legal Affairs Committee is the question of domain name registrations. This whole area is evolving very rapidly and with the development of the Internet, simple commodities like names, text, strings and characters have become very valuable. There needs to be a body of governance which is based on competition law, to make sure that allocation is carried out in a free way and ensure that world international copyright laws protect the legitimate rights of citizens who own those names to overcome the problem which has been picturesquely described as cyber-squatting. In conclusion, I would say that this is a very important report in an area which will become increasingly important to all of us. Those of us that use the Internet everyday take the basic plumbing behind it for granted. But we should not do that. We have to take a real interest in a commodity – a utility – that is going to be increasingly vital to all of us. . – Mr President, I am very pleased to be opening the debate. I am drawn to speak before my co-rapporteur merely by reason of being first in the alphabet and not of seniority in this Parliament. First of all, I very much enjoyed working on the report with Manuel Medina. I first became engaged in the whole project of the human resources reform in the Commission at the end of 1999 when I was first appointed provisional rapporteur – and subsequently confirmed as rapporteur – for Parliament on the overall strategy. For me, tonight will hopefully be the major culmination of the process. I do not believe we will have further debates like this – I see the Commissioner is enthusiastically agreeing with me. That does not mean to say, however, that this Parliament will not be continuing to take a keen interest in the whole process of the reforms because the regulations themselves have to provide the right framework in which the reforms are carried out. I also wish to thank colleagues here tonight from the various committees involved. We may not have accepted all their proposals but I want to assure them that we have considered everything very thoroughly indeed and we want to thank them for their contribution and for working with us. The report we have put before you tonight, colleagues, contains 55 proposed amendments to the regulation package. That may sound like a lot, but when you look at the size and complexity of this package you will see that we have actually concentrated on improving and clarifying the basic provisions of the regulations. There is one important new principle which I will come to later, but the real point I want to make to colleagues tonight is that our role has been to check methodically that the regulations deliver the reforms that you supported strongly when I presented my report to this House in 2001. That has been the central part of our task. It has not been our task to attempt a re-negotiation of fundamental parts of the package. The Commissioner has spent enough time and has had enough trouble dealing with that process. Our job has been to look at the politics and the strategy. You will see that we are basically satisfied that this framework of Staff Regulations will deliver the core parts of the reform: the move to a personnel system where members of staff in all the European institutions will be properly compensated, will be able to exploit their talents and encouraged to progress their careers in a system that rewards their efforts. That has meant a new grading structure and a new appraisal system. They are absolutely crucial and we have not sought in any way to alter that part of the process. In these reforms across the institutions we also introduce a new category of contract staff. Again, that is an area we have not sought to change. In the areas we have looked at, we have done so very much in consultation with other institutions, because it is important to understand that these regulations apply all across the European institutions. Part of our job as the rapporteur team has been to consult staff and executives in other institutions to make sure their needs are fully catered for. We are proposing more flexibility where institutions want to use it in the grading structure, particularly to retain staff with linguistic duties and specific positions where institutions feel that contract staff may not be appropriate. Tonight I should like to point out specifically the important task of Parliamentary ushers. What about the new principles? My colleague, Mr Medina Ortega, will say more about this, but the major new point of principle is to propose to you that the existing pension system in today's world ought to be simplified by removing the current weighting system that is based on a pensioner's final place of residence. In contemporary society and with more mobility we really ought to be contemplating a simpler, less bureaucratic system. We are not at all convinced that the present system can be fully justified in today's world. I know there are a lot of discussions going on about the pension system at the moment and the Commissioner may, indeed, refer to that later. I want to conclude by referring to the politics of the current situation going forward. We are very conscious, in this House, that the Commissioner is engaged in a major negotiation with Council. We are only here as an advisory Chamber, but colleagues expect us to press the Parliament's point of view as far as we possibly can. We are following the negotiations in Council very closely and we know that pension issues are very important there. We will be recommending to colleagues in the House tomorrow that they approve all the amendments, but that we should withhold our vote on the final legislative resolution until such time as we are satisfied that the Commissioner has achieved all he is setting out to achieve. Also, with the oral question that we have tabled for the House tonight, we are asking the Commissioner to come back to this House with the results of the final proposal so that we can ensure he delivers what we are all looking for: the optimum framework to carry the European institutions forward in this current century with an optimum personnel policy for the independent and quality staff we are looking for across the institutions. – Madam President, I would like to thank Bill Miller for a very comprehensive and thorough piece of work. It is a pleasure to see our roles reversed, since he shadowed me on the report on the overall strategy for the human resource reforms that this House approved at the end of last year. Together we have gathered the experience on what are absolutely crucial issues, both for the future of the Commission and, indeed, for the future of the European Union as a whole. It is good, from the point of view of the Legal Affairs Committee, that we are now getting on with the task of making the crucial reforms to the Staff Regulations that will be needed to implement these reforms. We hope to carry them out thoroughly and quickly, as Commissioner Kinnock forwards them to us. I very much echo what Bill Miller said about the importance of this measure as a one-off package. It does need to be seen in that context. It is encouraging that the Commission realises that this crucial step towards an entirely new human resource policy, means creating a whole new culture where people are promoted on merit, where we have a linear grading structure, where there is not an artificial ceiling for promotion, where there is much more delegated accountability. This is part of that transitional phase and it is encouraging that the Commission wants to tackle this seriously. The question we have asked in our committee, and the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets have also looked at this, is whether this is the right package. It is clearly a very generous package, but at the same time it has to be a powerful package because otherwise it will not work. The worst thing we could possibly do is make an offer which nobody takes up. That would frustrate what the Commission is trying to do. In that context I can tell Mr Miller that I am not supporting the two late amendments. They will not be on the EPP voting list. We have a consensus on that. So we believe this is the right package, but I commend the way that Bill Miller has sought to tighten up some aspects, particularly those relating to Commission officials who may take the retirement package and then go on to take up other jobs. Clearly it is not reasonable that they should effectively be rewarded twice at the European taxpayers' expense. I hope the Commission will accept those sensible provisions that Bill Miller has put into the report. Finally, I wish again to support the amendments that extend the application of this scheme to both the European Parliament and the political groups. That is a recognition of our dual role. We must not just hold the Commission to account for the progress of these reforms, but also look at our own management policies within this institution. It is quite clear that we have to address exactly the same issues. This is a once-off package that is not setting a precedent for the future reform of pensions policy. You will recall that in my report I attached great importance to the need to reform the standing pensions policy to introduce a permanent early retirement scheme. But this package is disconnected from that, and quite rightly so. This is a very important step in the reform of the Commission and I am pleased to give it, on behalf of my group, our full support. Mr President, this afternoon I am speaking not only on my own behalf, as I have worked closely with the rapporteur, Mrs Echerer, but also more particularly on behalf of our shadow rapporteur, Mrs Fourtou, who is sorry that she is unable to be here to share in these comments. On her behalf, I want to begin by thanking Mrs Echerer on a number of scores. Firstly, I want to thank her for quite rightly bringing this matter to the attention of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and then taking the initiative to draw up the report. This is very much to her credit, and in this matter she has been very keen to share her insight and concerns with us and to invite us to contribute to it. That spirit in which she approached the report is clearly shown in the quality of her work and, to echo what the Commissioner said, it is a very well-balanced document. It presents all sides very fairly, but it does not shrink from making a number of important and sharply-focused recommendations. From what the Commissioner said, I dare to hope that in his communication he will take on board a number of the points Mrs Echerer has made. So this is a very timely report. It also shows the benefits of having someone with strong expertise and background in a particular profession  in this case, in the acting profession, on the stage  someone who is a creative artist, who knows the subject, and of being able to combine that with the engagement of other colleagues. This question of balance and balance of interest is clearly at the heart of this report. The balance between the creators of works  the producers  and the people who exploit them and use them  I prefer to say the customers, because that is what they are  in the whole arrangement is absolutely crucial. That balance now is in many ways an uncertain one, because we are in such a volatile area of transition at the moment, not only with the explosion of digital content and digital distribution, and new forms of access to customers, but also with new creative works that are available for exploitation in the digital media world. For example, I have been doing work recently which has brought me into contact with people who are producing computer games and interactive computer games and the scale of that multibillion dollar, global business is producing enormous new opportunities for creators in every field, whether in illustration, music composition or script production. We need to encourage that, but we must make sure that we stimulate the development of those fields and that people are properly rewarded. Indeed, as we move into the third generation of mobile technology, one of the major concerns about the providers of electronic communications services  and they have said that to us in our capacity as Members of Parliament working in this field  is that they want us to help get the framework for content delivery right and to make sure that we get the creative works out into the marketplace because they want those creative works there to stimulate their electronic communication services. This is not just an abstract piece of work. This is a further fundamental piece of thinking around the internal market. It relates directly back to our work on the Lisbon Process and to creating the most dynamic and knowledge-driven economy in the world, using the knowledge we have to link creative works as well. One of the issues over which we had quite a lot of debate with Mrs Echerer  indeed Mr Karas referred to it, and much of what came from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and indeed from the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport was also included in our final vote  is the question of the operation of the marketplace in connection with collective rights management. I was pleased that Mrs Echerer accepted our view that, in the internal market for services,  and this week Commissioner Bolkestein has been here presenting a wide-ranging new proposal for that  in that new proposal for the internal market for services, those elements of collecting societies' activities where they are directly providing services to their members need to be treated like any other service provision and looked at in the context of the cross-border market for services. That is absolutely right because, as Mr Karas said, increasingly the distribution of rights is no longer going to be centred around national monopolies. The customers  and I come back to that word  increasingly want that 'one-stop shop'. They want to be able to go and access rights for created products that will allow them to distribute digitally not just across the European Union, but indeed in other major markets as well. That challenge to internationalise the process, to look outside the traditional borders of it, is something that the collective societies  as we know  are facing up to, but we need to provide them with the right framework and encouragement to do that. In conclusion, the key to that will be transparency of their activities so that all their customers can see exactly what package of services they are getting. To conclude, I echo what my colleague Mr Karas said, that I also heard with regret this week the news that Mrs Echerer will not be standing again for this Parliament. So this may be the last chance I have in plenary to say publicly from our side of the House that I very much enjoyed working with her. This report shows the sort of open and progressive contribution that she has made in her willingness to work with us. As she moves her activities to another stage, or should I say back to the stage where she started her career, I am sure that all of us will join in wishing her well, thanking her very much for her work, and we can demonstrate our support for that by our unanimous support for the report when we vote later on. – I would like to ask the Commissioner whether she shares with me a concern that, in Sweden, because television advertising aimed at children is not allowed, there is a noticeable lack of programmes being produced specifically for children in Sweden. Can she assure me that, in the study which she talked about – and I am delighted that she said it was going to be an open-minded study – this aspect will be fully considered and that, as there will be an explosion of television channels and television choice in future, she will look thoroughly at the possible impact of advertising on the generation of funds to produce high-quality programmes for children? – Mr President, on a point of order. I am sure I speak on behalf of all my colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, some of whom are still here. Can I protest to you on behalf of all my colleagues working on this dossier about the quite unacceptable way in which this debate has been scheduled? We started this debate at 11.30 a.m.. The session services knew it would not be finished and there are other debates scheduled later which you know from your computer system could have been slotted in there. We now have to adjourn the continuation of this debate until 9.30 p.m. Mrs Montfort and my colleague from the EDD have spoken under quite unacceptable circumstances. This is not the right way to run a chamber that is supposed to be having a serious debate on these subjects. It is not necessary to do this; there is no reason to split debates. You have the information and I suggest that it is not right to allow proper contributions while people are coming into the chamber. I hope all colleagues will support me in saying we should seriously get a grip on how business in this chamber is run. – Madam President, on behalf of the Budgetary Control Committee, I would also like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, who, I know, have done an immense amount of work on their reports. Also the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Terry Wynn, for the way he expedited the votes in some highly-charged discussions recently. It is good to get all the work through so rapidly, and I thank him for the way he did that. My committee was mainly concerned with four areas. The first was OLAF, Europe's anti-fraud office. I believe that we have sorted out the problem all the parties in this House had in finding a suitable wording for an amendment about OLAF's funding for the coming year. But we still have concerns about the dialogue between the Commission and OLAF in the budget process. Realistically, I am particularly worried that it poses questions about OLAF's independence; it is part of the Commission in this process and we can amend its budget in that way. The second area was export refunds, something on which Mr Mulder, the previous speaker, is an expert, as is Mr Casaca from the Socialist benches, and a subject I know very little about. I understand that they are relatively happy with the outcome of the amendments they tabled in this field. Thirdly, we were interested in the protection of the euro against counterfeiting, concerned about the valuation of the euro because so much could have been counterfeited. Perhaps we should have been more worried about the bizarre comments by the President of the Commission and tabled an amendment about that. Fourthly and more importantly, we were very concerned about the reform agenda within the Commission and that is why I draw the attention of Members across all the parties to the amendments to the Färm Report, especially in relation to Commission reform. The Commission's former chief accountant has drawn our attention to a number of concerns about the computer systems and how to ensure that our taxpayers' money, our national governments' money, is being spent correctly if the computer systems used do not support each other or provide proper figures. No doubt we shall come back to this in future debates, but those were the main concerns raised by the Budgetary Control Committee. – –On behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, I would also like to offer my congratulations to Mr Costa Neves for guiding us so far and for the very good job that he has done. I have been asked by my committee to raise a number of points, the main one being the amendment that we are retabling on the Court of Auditors. As the House will know, the Court of Auditors asked for a number of new staff. The Council recommended that only five new staff be granted and various positions have been taken on the additional staff requested and the money for them. The Committee on Budgetary Control decided quite wisely, in my view, that we should take an apolitical stance on this. We should ask the Court of Auditors to assess the performance of financial control systems in the applicant countries; improve the Court of Auditors' cooperation with the national audit institutions – which is a requirement of the Treaty of Nice – and establish more detailed specific DAS assessments – again, a requirement of the Treaty of Nice. We would therefore be fairly apolitical and once those issues had been clarified, we would ask for the money to be released for the other posts. However, in the Committee on Budgets a completely different amendment was tabled. It is much more political, and we are very worried about the independence of the Court of Auditors in relation to the requirements set down by the Committee on Budgets, so I do hope that will be considered. I have also been asked to say a word about implementation. We have looked at the implementation figures and we will continue to look at them in the future and use them for future amendments to the budget. You have our full backing on everything you have done in getting better information on implementation for us so far. We have also looked at tabling amendments. We have an amendment coming through asking for money to be tied up and asking the Commission to tell us whether an evaluation unit has been set up in DG V. Finally, we are very concerned about the future of the A-30 lines, or rather how they are going to be spent. Those are the points that the Committee on Budgetary Control would like to raise. – Mr President, it is always a great pleasure to follow one of the Commission's chief apologists. I wonder how the people in the public gallery feel about the 5% – 8% of European taxpayers' money from the GBP 98 billion 2001 budget that the Commission controlled going missing through fraud, mismanagement or waste; about the EUR 15 billion surplus, money that could not be spent because of inefficient programming; about the specific problems that we found when we debated these points – specifically Eurocost comes to mind; about the leaked e-mails and memos within the Commission that show how bad the accounts actually were in 2001. About the promises we received of how things were going to get better for 2005 – but of course some Members forget that we are actually dealing with the accounts for 2001 and exactly how they were reflected. About a 1960s-vintage public-sector accounting system that was in urgent need of reform, and yet the only action the Commission would take was to suspend one of the people who was brought in to carry out that reform. The only sensible recourse for us to take is to postpone discharge, and we need to have much deeper inquiries into the accounting systems reforms that have been put forward so far. Mrs Morgan said that she and her group are facing problems head-on. What they are actually doing is lifting up the carpet for the Commission to sweep its problems under. The Socialist Group should be ashamed of the position it has taken over the last few months, because it has known full well that it was going all along to grant discharge no matter how bad the accounts for 2001 proved to be. It will come to pay the price in the 2004 European elections. – Mr President, I welcome the various reports, the Blak, Stauner, Folias, Seppänen, van der Laan and Rühle reports, because I know so much work went into them. I want to restrict my comments to Freddy Blak's excellent report on the Commission discharge for 1999. 1999 – what a year that was. Not only was it the first year that I was elected – and hold back your cheers now – but in budgetary control terms it was fascinating. It was the year of three types of Commission: two months of the old Commission that had a number of problems that we all know about; six months of no Commission whatsoever because they were not taking any management decisions; and then the rest of the year was with the new Commission who had no time to implement any of the reforms. 1999 – another year with an error rate of about 5% or roughly EUR 4.5 billion. 1999 – the sixth year running that the Court of Auditors refused to write off the accounts. 1999 – the year in which Freddy Blak found huge errors, fraud and problems in the accounts, scandals all of them including, for example, the wonderful Washington delegation that warranted a whole two paragraphs in the report. I believe the Commissioner will be able to confirm that the building was bought for USD 0.5 million, refurbished to the tune of USD 2.2 million – that is four times what it was bought for – whilst renting somewhere else for about USD 18 000 per month which was cheaper than where the Commission's residence was beforehand because I believe it was in the Four Seasons Hotel. There were other problems with IRELA, flax and Fléchard, too, and all we have to do in this House is look at our previous reports. We have consistently said that if the error rate does not improve in the 1999 year, then we could not and should not pass these accounts. The error rate quite simply did not improve. I checked with the Court of Auditors and they confirmed that the error rate was the same or marginally worse. What conclusions should we draw from this? It is fairly obvious: the error rate did not improve; EUR 4.5 billion lost, unaccounted for, mismanaged; we do not give discharge. I hear that the Socialists and other Groups are actually thinking of granting discharge and I cannot think why. How on earth are we going to explain that back home? Please do not be scared that by not granting discharge you will cause this Commission to fall. You simply will not. There is nothing in the Treaties that says that must happen. 1999 is not the year for which this Commission is responsible. What you will be doing, however, is sending a message to this Commission and the public who elected us here – you remember them, some of them actually bother to visit us occasionally – that we are steadfastly against waste, fraud and mismanagement; that we are drawing a line in the sand, that what went before 1999 was completely unacceptable and what happens now and in the future must be better. Commissioner, I would appreciate your answer on the Washington delegation because it is very odd that we do not get to see a number of these facts until we actually ask for them. I also ask you to promise us that the error rate will improve. – Mr President, I welcome all the reports on the discharge procedures, especially Mrs Stauner's report. Before I make my initial comments, I just wish to welcome what Mrs McAvan said about access to information from the Commission. I have found it remarkably difficult to get important documents and information from it on a number of occasions, especially for various budget lines relating to culture. It would be very useful if the Commission were to release more information to us and give us the reports we ask for. I welcome Mrs Stauner's report for a number of reasons. One because, as we are dealing with 1998, we should be looking at the past and trying to find answers to the questions we have raised about Fléchard, ECHO and the MED problems. These are all relevant nowadays because we must learn the lessons from them. Any new proof that arises from these cases must be investigated. These investigations must be very rigorous and must be reported back to us. OLAF must use its teeth. The three cases I have mentioned are also quite important because they reflect remarkably on four current Commissioners. All four of them must look carefully at their past, come clean and show this new Commission where reform is needed. I hope that Commissioner Kinnock listens to this debate and will reflect upon. There are lessons to be learned and many questions to be answered and he is the man in charge of getting these questions answered for us now. I also wish to make a couple of points on the Kuhne report on Parliament's own budget discharge. We regularly cast stones at the Commission, but when it comes to looking at our own finances sometimes we are a bit slow on the uptake. Although we have recommended discharge for our own budget this time, there are a number of points in the discharge report we should look at, especially the inventory services and the new system. I welcome the fact that the Kuhne report has called for a report on the new inventory system for Parliament. I hope the Commission takes the time to look at this debate seriously. This Parliament is very serious in the way it discharges various budgets. I agree with Mrs Morgan that maybe we need to reflect on how we discharge budgets in the future. However, for now, the Commission has a number of questions to answer and I hope it will start right now. – I have a couple of supplementary questions. In principle is the Commission absolutely committed to reoccupying the Berlaymont building? If not, when do you believe the final decision will be taken within the college of the Commission? Is there any sort of timetable within the Commission for looking at these procedures? How will the final cost of EUR 605 million be borne within the European budget? – Mr President, last month in the UK, in a region that neighbours mine, the Michelin Group announced significant redundancies at its Stoke-on-Trent plant due to company restructuring and increasing global competitiveness in the world market for tyres. I, like all Members present, am saddened by this loss of jobs. Equally, I am saddened by the announcement made by Goodyear that has prompted this resolution. But I doubt very much indeed whether a European works council would have been able to change this company’s decision. This House is very good at producing resolutions and legislation and we sometimes, in this institution, forget that Europe cannot survive alone. We need multinational companies to base their businesses within our continent. In my few months here, I have found it astonishing that whilst we all talk about the need to encourage businesses to grow within the EU, nearly every resolution we pass actually encourages businesses to leave. In our last plenary part-session in Brussels we voted on the end-of-life vehicles directive and managed to make the legislation retrospective, adding huge costs for the European motor manufacturers that they could not have predicted. Two days later, Toyota, which employs several thousand people in my region, stated that this directive would not only increase the cost of cars but could well also mean redundancies in their Derbyshire plant. In a world where surely less regulation is the key, we in this House seem to believe that we can add more regulation and costs on business and that they will stay within the European Union, untempted by other locations elsewhere where there are fewer burdens. We MEPs speak often about SMEs and have now come up with a unique way of creating them. Take a large successful business, add European regulations, and within months you have created a small one. Perhaps before we criticise anybody outside this place we should take a good look at ourselves and what we do here. – Mr President, I would like to draw Parliament's attention to a case of blatant discrimination that is about to take place in the county of Northamptonshire, which I and my colleague, Mr Helmer, represent. The Labour-controlled county council has decided in its wisdom to cut the number of free school bus passes it gives out. However, instead of doing this fairly and across the board, it has vindictively decided to target denominational and single-sex schools. This Labour council conducted a listening consultation exercise with parents across the county and, out of over 1 120 replies, only 17 concurred with their plans. At this point, 119 parents complained that they felt this policy amounted to either religious or sexual discrimination. Many of these parents have now decided to petition this Parliament. Mr President, through you, I ask that the Committee on Petitions investigate these complaints as soon as possible, as I am sure that no one in this House would like to see such discrimination tolerated. – Mr President, I was not referring to that particular vote but to votes in general. It is obvious that some presidents do not look at the hands, so to speak, but go straight to the electronic voting system. I was wondering whether this is the correct procedure. I know it takes longer, but should we not always have a show of hands first? – Madam President, following Mr Wynn's observation about the number of amendments my committee might or might not have tabled, it is fair to point out that this is part of the democratic process and if we are not here to question and raise points, then what are we here for? – Mr President, on a point of order, or a point of concern almost, a number of Members on this side of the House have noticed that you may have lost your jacket and on a snowy day can we offer you one of ours just in case you get cold. – Madam President, I rise concerning Rules 7(1), 7(2) and 8(4) of our Rules of Procedure to ask whether you or your services have received a communication from the British Government informing you that the Conservative Party has asked to change one of three names on its list, which would remove the name of someone elected in the East Midlands region in the European elections last June. The change would be to remove the name of Mr William Newton Dunn and replace it with Mr Javed Arain, the fourth-ranked Conservative, who is here with us today in the public gallery. You will no doubt know that the system of proportional representation was used for the first time in the UK in the last European elections and the people who voted in these elections voted for a party whose views they agreed with, not for an individual. Perhaps if no communication has been forthcoming you could contact the British Government to ask for their official, legal position. Finally, under Rule 7(3), I ask that the committee responsible, mentioned in this rule, look into the credentials of Mr Newton Dunn to see whether he has, in fact, proceeded in accordance with the Act of 20 September 1976, as detailed in our Rules of Procedure. Mr President, I cannot tell you how excited I am to be here this evening to talk on behalf of the PPE-DE Group on this subject. I can see that it is a subject that brings great excitement to the rest of the parliamentarians and indeed the massive audience that we have here tonight. One actually wonders whether these late-night sessions put our European taxpayers’ money to good use. I shall bend over backwards to do my bit and I will start by giving thanks to the rapporteur for all the work he has put into this. I welcome the fact that the new Financial Regulation gives us the power to scrutinise these agencies’ accounts and I also welcome the cooperative way in which they all worked with the European Parliament in this process. Because of this autonomy from the normal management framework of the Commission, the choice of director, I believe, is a crucially important one. The appointment must be by open process and must involve the European Parliament. Indeed, Parliament should have the right to give its assent to such appointments and that is why the PPE-DE Group will vote to reject the Liberal amendment. Although it contains some interesting ideas about the structure of hearings in the Parliament, it only proposes to give the European Parliament consultative status. The PPE part of the PPE-DE Group is in favour of discharge for the agencies for numerous reasons, many of which I do not understand, considering in general terms that the state of the Commission’s accounts is just a pile of pants  I am using colloquialisms to give the interpreters a test at this time in the evening. Although the bulk of the PPE Group is for discharge, there are, however, some concerns that we would like to lay on the table for the future. We want to ensure that there will always be the highest management standards, in particular by these agencies cooperating fully with OLAF, by sharing best practice amongst themselves  because many of the management challenges are very similar  and by ensuring that their boards are an effective instrument to hold management to account and are not just a bureaucratic and cosmetic gesture. Some boards are already too big, especially that of the Agency for Safety and Health at Work, and enlargement risks making this worse. If boards become too big to assume their responsibilities in practice, agencies become vulnerable to become private fiefdoms  an example of which we have seen in Eurostat. We would like to see people cooperating closely to avoid duplication  for example, the Agency for Safety and Health at Work and the Foundation for the Improvement of Working and Living Conditions. I think the Commission should look at this. The highest standards of financial management should be ensured in particular by strengthening internal audit capacities. We would like to see the European Court of Auditors conducting more checks. I thank the rapporteur for all his work. The British Conservative delegation  the hopefully ever-growing DE  will not be voting to grant discharge, but the PPE will be doing so, and we thank you for all your work. . – British Conservatives are abstaining on this resolution. We have consistently championed the cause of greater transparency, openness and accountability but this is a separate matter from calling for the precedence of the Community method in every area of European Union decision-making. Mr President, this motion is to censure the whole Commission. Alas, we do not currently have the power in this House to censure individuals - we have only this nuclear option. Perhaps in Eurostat's case this is the best thing. The problem here is that the Commissioners are happy to make great political statements on policy but absolutely refuse to take political responsibility for problems that occur in their DGs. Effective political control, proper communication, procedures and financial checks and balances were either not in place in Eurostat, failed to work, or were simply ignored. In fact all the warning signs were completely ignored. In this case, EUR 5 million went missing because of fraud and bad management controls. Yet the only person to be arrested was a journalist - Hans-Martin Tillack - who chose to report this in  and whose office was raided again today. It is not amazing that OLAF can act with such speed involving police in trying to get the name of a journalist and checking his bank accounts in days. However, if you compare this to the Eurostat case, where after more than a year of investigations we have basically nothing, it begs the question of the priorities of various individuals within the DG responsible. During the discharge process for 2001, Eurostat was one of our rapporteur's key themes. We now know that not all the information we needed at the time was made available to this House. Many MEPs are now on record as saying that if they had been given all the facts at the time, they would have voted against discharge for those accounts last year. If the Commission and the leaders of all the political groups in this Parliament had put half as much energy into solving the systemic problems shown up by the Eurostat case as they have in trying to block this motion from having an airing on the floor of the House, then all these problems could have been solved years ago. This Commission deserves to be censured, and future Commissioners need to know that they will take political responsibility for the actions of their DGs. – Mr President, I too would like to congratulate Mrs Morgan for writing this report especially considering the remarkably tight deadlines that she set herself by falling pregnant. I am sure that this House wishes her every success in that particular project, although I am slightly worried that the baby's first words might include the words "discharge" and "procedure". I would also like to commend to the House the way in which from its conception this report was drawn up using other reports already passed by our committee. Some here will know of my interest in the budget in general, and as budget rapporteur for the Budgetary Control Committee, I wrote a report in which a number of conclusions that are included here were conceived, mainly in paragraph 16 of this report. From that embryonic stage, they have now come through their period of gestation and are born within this report. They concern a number of courses of action that the Budgetary Control Committee can take when it finds problems in different areas, including recommending to the Committee on Budgets to freeze or reduce the amount of appropriations intended for the headings concerned in the following year's budget; to authorise no transfers of appropriations to take place involving increasing the headings concerned for a certain period until further internal investigations are concluded; up to asking the President of the Commission to ask for the resignation of any individual Commissioners concerned with the serious problems found, a kind of EU Caesarean. Finally, I would commend the rapporteur's proposals about speeding up the contradictory procedure and the various statements on the special reports, although I do have to say to the rapporteur that I intend to disagree with the five-month timetable proposed in the report for dealing with these. Perhaps a nine-month timetable would be in order. I am sure that the rapporteur would be pleased to hear that there are few differences between the main groups to breach in these circumstances. Forceps are not required to tweeze out any agreements, and we will be voting for her report. – Mr President, on a point of order, I appreciate your comments but this is one of the fundamental problems we have with the Commission at present. Mrs Sandbæk has written to you, Commissioner, asking to see a copy of the signature of your former, former chief accountant on the 2001 accounts. I asked who that person was. I was told in the past that they were signed whilst that person was in post. That person left the Commission's employment on 31 December 2001. They were either the quickest prepared set of accounts in history or something magical happened. I am not convinced by what you have said today and I very much doubt whether the people in the public gallery are convinced. I would just appreciate some frank exchanges and honesty between you and those of us who are interested, because Mrs Andreasen told you what was happening. She wrote to you and met you, and you chose to ignore here. What happened is a disgrace to you and your institution. Realistically, you have to bite the bullet and get on with reforming the accounting system properly, and you could do with Mrs Andreasen's help. – Mr President, on a point of order. I was just wondering whether anybody is going to inform the particles of smoke where the smoking zone and the no-smoking zones are. – I rise on a point of order. You will no doubt be aware of the serious problems concerning the provision of secondary education in my region of Northamptonshire. With me today in the public gallery is a mother of two from Earls Barton near Wellingborough whose eldest son is due to enter secondary education in September. He has recently petitioned this Parliament because his Local Education Authority has failed to allocate him a place in any of the schools of his choice in his local area, even after what can only be described as a flawed appeals process. This is the same Local Education Authority that, until last week, was failing to provide any education or school places to 20 children in the same area. Will the President please write to the British Government to clarify how this sits with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, especially Article 14(3), the right to education, which I believe specifically covers Lucy Payne's case and the concerns of many other parents across Northamptonshire. Mr President I should like to thank President Prodi for coming here today. This is the fourth time running I have been here to listen to his presentation. Indeed, it is the fourth year running that his Commission has failed to get a positive statement of assurance from the European Court of Auditors for its accounts, and the ninth time running that the Commission, as an entity, has failed to do so. I am aware that no one in Mr Prodi's Commission accepts political responsibility for anything, but am sure there are members of the Commission who have political antennae and can sense the mood of Parliament when it comes to the problems found at Eurostat and in the accounting system. I personally consider that Mr Prodi has weakened his position and the Commission's position by stepping into Italian domestic politics, which is something I am sure he should not be doing. I think he makes the Commission slightly more impotent by admitting that Commissioners currently have no political responsibility. With Eurostat he has shut the stable door too late, a long time after the horses have bolted, and is looking to blame the messengers rather than resolving the problem. However, I would like to talk very briefly about the whistleblowers' charter, which is something I know Mr Prodi mentioned in the Committee on Budgetary Control's meeting earlier today, because his Commission's biggest failing has been the way it has treated some of the whistleblowers. The Commission has been a kangaroo court. It has suspended those who raise questions and problems and has actually rewarded those who have been involved in covering these things up. I also want to be positive, because I know that ten new Commissioners will be coming into your midst as of May 2004. As well as wanting to see an independent OLAF, I would like the Commission to consider the possibility of one of those Commissioners assuming responsibility for budgetary control and the internal audit service of the Commission, because the sooner it is separated from the budgetary function itself, the sooner we may start to make headway as regards these problems. – Looking back on the events of the last year, does the Commissioner now accept that the Commission has a lot to learn in its handling of internal disputes between high-ranking members of staff? Having accepted the urgent need to reform the Commission's accounting system along the lines suggested by its former Chief Accountant, Marta Andreasen – who was in post just four months and working in what was supposedly a hostile environment – and with your understanding, as Commissioner for Reform, that reforms often take longer than expected to deliver, conceive, plan and actually put into action, surely now you can accept that it is time to stop victimising Marta Andreasen and stop these ridiculous disciplinary proceedings against her. Perhaps then common sense can prevail once again within the European Commission. . – The Committee on Budgetary Control considered tabling a number of amendments to this year’s budget, looking at the implementation figures of the current and previous years budgets alongside the corresponding analysis contained within the revenue and expenditure account and balance sheet. We also looked at the Court of Auditors’ special reports. Whilst these are drawn up pursuant to Article 248(4) of the Treaty for the purpose of discharge, we actually think there is some value in our committee and the Committee on Budgets looking into them and looking at how the money is being spent in the current year in areas where the Court of Auditors found problems in the past. Looking at the evaluation reports, the Commission has produced a lot of documentation concerning the preliminary draft budget, for example for 2001, which included a working document presenting summaries of results of a number of mostly external evaluations. Those were carried out at the request of the Commission itself and referred to the financial year 1999, the most recent one for which the final data was available. The material was obviously useful for both the preparation of the 2001 budget and for the 1999 discharge. So the committee would like to recommend to all the specialised committees concerned to take into account the results of those evaluations. In the end we tabled a very short paper to the Committee on Budgets with a number of recommendations which we hope will be taken on board. The House will no doubt be aware that I personally have taken an interest in the budget and tabled a number of amendments. I look forward in the future to seeing roughly the same sort of exercise and trying to get rid of a number of very small and more insignificant budget lines, as well as making this House and the Commission much more efficient, do less and do it better. – Mr President, on a point of order. Following the debates with the Council last night I was wondering whether this report is actually close enough to the original proposal for first reading procedure to be possible. There are certainly a number of amendments where we need further clarification. If we vote for them would this actually take the report further away from what this House is allowed to vote on? This concerns Amendments Nos 4, 5, 6, 18, 21, 33, 36, 40, 42 and 46, some of which directly imply policy down to individual schools in Member States. I would like to hear whether this is actually a legal procedure for us to be voting on now. – Mr President, on a point of order I should like to ask you for clarification of the Rules of Procedure: namely Rules 133(2) and 138(4). These are both about voting. Is it not the case that on votes other than roll-call votes, the vote should take place initially by show of hands and only then, if there is some doubt, should we utilise the electronic voting system? – Mr President, I too should like to congratulate all the rapporteurs, especially Mr McCartin, who has taken a reasonable amount of flak from me. I should also like to congratulate Mrs Morgan on her discharge report. I was not in the Chamber when she made her comments about ECOSOC, but I am sure she is now with me in calling for this organisation not only not to get discharge but actually to be disbanded because it is a waste of money. My primary job here on behalf of my group is to talk about the Staes and Seppänen discharges. This is very easy because they are two very good reports written by two very good parliamentarians. Regarding the McCartin report, I want to put on record, especially for people in the public gallery, some of the simple facts which we should be talking about. There is still no positive statement of assurance from the Court of Auditors. This is the seventh year running. There probably never will be one because they have got themselves into a very tight corner now. How can they give discharge to an organisation where 5% or more of the budget is lost through fraud, mismanagement or waste and 14% of the budget, at least, is running as a surplus? Nearly 20% of the budget is not spent correctly, as we would like it to be. This is not a record to be proud of. The discharge report by Mr McCartin contains a number of quite scathing points and highlights ongoing problems within the Commission. And yet Mr McCartin comes to the conclusion that he should recommend discharge. Quite correctly, he notes that the majority of the EU's budget is administered in the Member States. However this does not absolve the Commission of final responsibility and accountability. The buck stops with the Commission. It is its responsibility, as stated in Article 274, to implement and oversee the Community's budget. Once again this is a year in which it has failed to manage and control the Community's budget properly. My party's representatives in this House were elected on a whole host of pledges, the main one being to sort out the accounts of the European Commission and other European institutions and make sure that the reform process that most people in this House are pleased to see going forward is actually driven through and achieves results. As much money is now being lost through fraud and mismanagement of funds in the 2000 budget as when we made the pledge in 1999 to try and sort this out. John Wiggins, a former member of the European Court of Auditors, is quoted in a British newspaper saying that the situation in the Commission is unchanged. Things have  to change. The European Parliament's legal services wrote a note to the Budgetary Control Committee on 5 November 2001 giving an opinion on whether not granting discharge should lead to the fall of the Commission. It states that undoubtedly refusal to grant discharge is the expression of serious political sanctioning of the Commission. Its legal effect, however, is not such as to compel the Commission to resign. That is covered by a special procedure laid down in Article 141 of the EC Treaty. In voting not to give discharge to the Commission, we are actually making sure that the Commission knows firstly, that we do not want it to resign and, secondly, that we want it to sort the problems out. If nothing has changed by this time next year, if there is still no positive statement of assurance, if there is still 5% and more waste, mismanagement, fraud and disappearing money, and if there is still a huge budget surplus, then we will be getting to the stage where we will have to say to the people in the public gallery and the people who put us here that nothing has changed in the European Commission, the reform process is still ongoing – and is the slowest process ever – and we have failed in one of our core tasks which was to sort these problems out in the first place. That is not a record to be proud of and not something I am prepared to stand before my constituents and say. – Madam President, following on from the last comment, it is obvious that the Irish made their decision in a very democratic way, as did, alas, the British people, because they voted in this wonderful Labour government. But as we are trying to change what the Irish said in their referendum, maybe we should look at the British vote. Surely this House would have wanted to see a Conservative government returned, and on the basis of fact and realistic policy, people would have wanted to vote Conservative on Thursday last. That is the result that we would all have liked. Mr President, a number of Members would have noticed that at the last Strasbourg part-session there were a number of  close votes. It is fortunate that Mr McMillan-Scott decided to travel a day before any votes in this particular part-session, because it is my concern and the concern of many of my colleagues that the inadequacies of the transport arrangements to Strasbourg are having a direct impact on who is here to vote on certain subjects and could sway an issue in the vote in this place. Once our accession colleagues arrive, this problem is only going to get worse because they have even worse connections to Strasbourg. It is obviously an issue that is not going to go away. My French colleagues who are going off for their very good lunch now should remember that this Parliament will only legitimise itself when it can choose where it sits. . – Mr President, I have basically left it open to all members of the Budgetary Control Committee to suggest amendments in the sectors that they tend to cover. Mr Bösch has tabled a number of amendments from the point of view of a critical friend, regarding OLAF, the Anti-Fraud Office. We are now beginning to see the problems of the office not being completely independent of the Commission. Accordingly, Mr Bösch's amendments which have been adopted by the committee include questioning the mission expenses of OLAF, questioning their information and communication measures – having received a reasonable amount of money for this purpose, the office put out less than twelve press releases in both 2000 and 2001 – and indeed questioning both the Commission and OLAF over a cut. The PDB actually cut the budget for OLAF by a substantial figure and we had no answers as to why that money had been cut. The committee has reinstated the money cut, but has put this money into the reserve pending the answers from both those institutions. The committee has also taken a strong view on export refunds. There are many experts on export refunds on the committee. I am definitely not one of those, but essentially the amendments aim for transparency and to help people like me understand the purpose, scope, cost and implementation of export refunds. Other amendments include those on the Economic and Social Committee, cutting funds to reduce its dependence on external experts, increasing appropriations for the measures to combat counterfeiting of the euro – something I as a British Conservative have some trepidation in suggesting – and reinstating part of a cut in budget line B1-361 which seeks to improve monitoring and preventative measures in candidate countries concerning agriculture budgets. Those are the amendments that the Budgetary Control Committee has submitted. Mr President, I am delighted to speak to the House - and in public - as a member of the gagged and muzzled committee of this Parliament which has been unable to conduct its business properly because of a decision by the Conference of Presidents about interviewing Mr Prodi on one of the subjects I will be raising shortly. Following the normal practice within my committee, this year I have used the matters that we found during our discharge procedure to draw some budgetary amendments to get what the Committee on Budgetary Control would like to see from the Commission and other institutions. It breaks down into three different areas, two are related and will be touched on later, and the other is the Committee of the Regions. We have yet to grant discharge to this committee for the 2001 set of accounts and, as more revelations appear about the state of its accounts and what has been going on within that committee, it is highly unlikely that we will do so. Therefore we have tabled an amendment asking for 25% of members' allowances within the Committee of the Regions to go into the reserve until the rapporteur provides us with much of the information we have requested. The main point concerns Eurostat and OLAF. We have tabled an amendment asking for a significant sum of money to be placed in the reserve for OLAF. This achieved near-unanimity in the committee, because we have been unhappy with the way OLAF has been reporting to the budgetary authority, in many cases contravening its own rules. Finally, I turn to Eurostat. We are very concerned about some of its activities and the way in which the Commission is dealing with it. We have tabled a number of amendments and, when it comes to the main budget debate, more amendments - that we shall be pushing on behalf of our committee - may be tabled by the political groups, because it is about time that someone took responsibility for the problems within Eurostat. Mr President, I voted in favour of the motion of censure because I believe that this Commission has failed to deliver the reforms it was asked to get on with five years ago. We have had fine words, a lot of wind and bluster from the Commissioner in charge of reforms, Mr Kinnock, but it seems that although the Commissioner can talk the talk he has failed to walk the walk. I was elected on a manifesto commitment to fight fraud and maladminstration and it is very difficult to explain to my voters, the good people of Louth and Horncastle or of Derbyshire, why for ten years the accounts have not been signed off by the European Court of Auditors. These problems are significant and typified by Eurostat and have failed to be addressed. This motion of censure is not just about Eurostat but about the management culture that this exhibits, which goes unchecked. Mr Solbes might well have gone, but the lack of political responsibility within the Commission remains. This Commission deserves to be censured and future Commissioners need to know that they will be made politically responsible for the actions of those they direct. . – Mr President, it is not often that a politician of my calibre gets to speak to such a packed and huge audience. I should like to thank all the interpreters for staying behind. I understand that my speech leaked out to the rest of the Members of Parliament beforehand, hence their disappearance in mass numbers. Many of the interpreters, I am sure, would have liked to have studied on a Erasmus course when they were learning their languages and studying at university. I, as a British Conservative, often find fault – and it is very easy to find fault – with many of the programmes organised and paid for by the European Commission and the European Union. However I have a soft spot for Erasmus because it is very difficult to find fault with that particular programme. It seems to achieve some of the results that it actually expects. This survey is a fascinating one, carried out in 1998. It was fascinating that so many students actually bothered to take part in filling out a form and sending it back to the Commission. The one problem, I suppose, with the results of the survey was that they were reported after we had decided on the Socrates II programme and the Erasmus parts of it. We could have drawn some very useful information from this survey on the socio-economic circumstances of students on Erasmus courses at that time. There are a number of interesting facts and figures. I could bore you with them but they are all contained within the explanatory statement of the report and in the Commission report itself. But there are a few that I have a great deal of interest in. Certainly of the people who took an Erasmus course in 1998 and bothered to reply to the questionnaire 98% found that the programme was extremely positive or at least very positive. Ninety-one percent were over the moon with what had happened to them on the course. It is a shame that 57% of them experienced financial hardship as a result of their particular Erasmus course. One wonders whether, when only half the money is being spent on the Erasmus places being taken up, (half are left open at the end of each year) the money could not be better redistributed within Erasmus itself. When I initially tabled my report I put forward a few controversial ideas just to see if anybody bothered to read what was going on. Fortunately two or three Members (and the Commission as well) did read them. A number noticed little points that I had to then retract. But one which is still there in point 4 of my report, which I would like to underline, is the part that condemns any internal discrimination practised in Member States. If you had trouble getting on a higher education course in Austria for example, because you were of a certain race, this place would have been in a complete uproar. But that is exactly what is going on in my own country at the moment, with English students who want to study in Scotland being penalised financially by the Scottish Executive. So I really wanted to keep that in my report. I sneaked it in there and it stayed pretty much hidden until now, and I would like to reveal it to the very few people who are in the Chamber tonight. I look forward to my new Labour colleagues voting on this particular matter. I believe it is slightly too late to ask for a split vote. I have also tabled a couple of amendments. One helps with a bit of punctuation, a bit of grammar on the particular passage in point 4, the second in point 6. In the committee stage of this report part of a sentence was added which said: "considers that the survey's findings should be taken as an opportunity to review national higher educational policies". I do not think it is in the remit of this report or this place or the Commission to ask for that. So I have tabled an amendment which would delete that. A third amendment which I have tabled has changed just one word in the English language version from "regrets" to "notes". I really enjoyed working with the Commission and all the people that have helped me. I would like to end by thanking those who helped me with this report, especially my researcher Nicky Smith, who waded through every single statistic. We contacted every university and vice-chancellor in the UK and many across Europe to ask for their comments on this report. I commend it to the House. – Mr President, on a point of order, I should like your clarification that when you are looking around the Chamber and judging how many people vote for or against, you are not taking into account any political preference. I am sure you are not, but I would hate my British Socialist colleagues to be embarrassed by the way they have just voted, in some cases against the UK budget rebate. – Commissioner, you mentioned the ongoing evaluation that you will be making over the next two years. I wonder whether it would not have been wiser to have carried out an assessment of the economic impact on small clubs before you travelled down this road. Many of the smaller clubs in my region, who cradle players for the obvious talents of the north-west clubs in the UK, are particularly worried about this. There has been a lot of talk about football here today, but you mentioned sport and this is specifically a sports remit. Other sports have transfer fees and I wonder which other sports you have discussed this with. I find it very interesting that players now have different rights depending on their age – 23 being the case in point here. I was wondering for Commissioner Diamantopoulou whether this sets a precedent for other European employment legislation. Finally, Commissioner, you mentioned the changes to FIFA rules and regulations. The calculation behind the effective training costs was recently posted on the FIFA website. FIFA state it would be impossible to do this for individual players so they want to do this by league and type of club. This recommendation means that the smaller the club, the smaller the amount of money the club will receive in compensation for training costs. The categories are a category-one club of a top level, with a high quality training centre; category two: still professional but on a lower level – second division clubs in the UK; category three: all types of third-division clubs, as in the UK; category four: amateur players – Vauxhall Conference and other amateur footballers. Are we not building another type of discrimination into football, which we really did not need in the first place? – Madam President, I rise following Mrs Hautala's statement about Mrs Lucas being imprisoned on her way to the part-session here today. It seems strange to me that she was imprisoned on her way here because she represents the South East of England and was arrested five or six hundred miles further north. Maybe, instead of telling the UK Government whom they can arrest and why, the parliamentary authorities could send her a map of the UK and some advice from our travel services as well. – Madam President, a number of Members present today will be confused as to what has actually gone on concerning this European Women’s Lobby amendment. Amendment No 394 was tabled by a colleague of mine, Mrs Scallon. A number of us would like to vote for her amendment but, because of what has gone on in the coordinators’ meetings, we have no idea how to do so. I would very much appreciate your advice on how we can support the original Amendment No 394. – Further to my question, as the Commissioner has just stated, the Commission is now drawing up its "whistle-blowing" charter to a certain extent. Will this be framed, for example, along the lines of the Swedish Government's or the British Government's rules on whistle-blowing? Could the Commissioner inform Parliament as to the exact circumstances in which Paul van Buitenen now finds himself? Is he still being disciplined by the Commission and has any of his pay which was docked in the past been refunded to him? – Mr President, on a point of order, it is good to see that our budgets Commissioner is completely up-to-date with the numbers. The British Conservatives abstained on the Bösch report overall because we are unhappy with the concept of a European Public Prosecutor, believing that this could well lead to . We were also unhappy with the references to VAT made within the report. – Madam President, on a point of order. I have already written to you on a number of occasions concerning how points of order are raised in the House. I wonder on what point of order Mr Davies was speaking. Why did he not mention the fact that one of his own Liberal colleagues also has a consultancy that is under investigation by the BBC? Is this House going to let its agenda be determined by scurrilous reports on a programme which bases its news items on lies, or is it going to get down to serious work and address the challenges facing Europe? – Madam President, Mr Katiforis is quite correct, but if the precedent in this House, is anything to go by, now that Parliament has made a proposal, in five years' time the Commission will come forward with an idea which we will reject again. – Madam President, now that we have made all these changes, I am sure your services will tell you that the text has become rather incoherent in terms of the text and its intention. Given the preparation of the Commission green paper on the European public prosecutor, the run-up to the IGC in 2004 and the fact that several committees of this House were not consulted, I would ask that this report be referred back to committee. Mr President, this is an historic day and an historic debate because, after 17 years of war in Sri Lanka, the European Parliament for the first time is actually debating how to bring peace to this war-torn island. In 1948, when Sri Lanka obtained independence, it was one of the most prosperous countries in South Asia. In 1952, Lee Kuan Yew, the newly elected Prime Minister of Singapore, said: “My ambition is to make Singapore emulate Sri Lanka in prosperity, education and standard of living”. Forty-eight years later, that beautiful island of Sri Lanka has been smashed by a terrorist group now recognised as the most powerful terrorist organisation in the world. There are four million Tamils in Sri Lanka and there are 15 million Sinhalese. One million Tamils live in the north; the other three million live in peace in the south with the Sinhalese. They hold high office in Colombo, the present foreign minister is Tamil, the country’s leading businessmen are Tamil, so are judges, doctors, lawyers and cabinet ministers – the list goes on. Yet this pointless war also carries on, to serve the single purpose of a terrorist leader pursuing his own ambition. The resolution states how many people he has killed. The LTTE has to be stopped. I ask Member States to proscribe this terrorist organisation and to help build peace and stability in Sri Lanka and strongly support the initiative currently being taken by the Norwegian and Indian governments. Mr President, I rise to raise the case of Hans-Martin Tillack, a journalist arrested ten days ago by Belgian police, under instructions from OLAF. It was fairly heavy-handed stuff, I believe, with the gentleman being incarcerated for ten hours without access to a lawyer, and there are many other problems with the case. I wonder if you could raise this matter with OLAF because, on the subject of Eurostat, there did not seem to be the massive speed that was required for this case and it would be a much more interesting case for us in this Parliament. I am also very concerned about freedom of the press in Belgium and I wish you would take this up with the Belgian Home Office. – Firstly I would like to say that the previous speaker, my illustrious committee chairman, was being slightly disingenuous because there is no real demand for a European public prosecutor. Only two weeks ago in Parliament we saw huge tranches of her own report being deleted because they contained references to such a body. There will be some dissension among the various political parties in this House but many people are concerned about what this is actually leading to. I do not think you were being completely fair with us, Commissioner, when you said it will only go so far and no further. Will it lead to ? If you say no to this question, how can you reconcile that with the answer that Mrs Delmas-Marty gave our committee a month ago? Mrs Delmas-Marty is the former head of the supervisory body of OLAF and she has written many books on this particular subject. She said yes – a European public prosecutor will almost certainly lead to , a common body of law throughout the Community. What would be the core competences of the European public prosecutor? What powers would he or she have? What are the Community's financial interests? Surely you are not ignoring political signals sent by both the Council – many countries are against this – and Parliament, which, as I said at the beginning, two weeks ago rejected many things to do with the European public prosecutor? Mr President, you cited a Rule that I did not know existed when you made your ruling on the points of order by Mr Wieland and Mr Van Orden. Rule 138(3) mentions that points of order concerning the validity of a vote may be raised after the President has declared it closed. Thus Mr Wieland had the right to do what he did. Rule 138(4) provides that 'after the result of a vote by show of hands has been announced, a Member may request that this result be checked using the electronic voting system'. You did not do that Mr President. I know the final decision on all this is yours, but it was a legitimate call by a host of Members of this House. You said at the very beginning of this voting session that your eyes were playing you up. I would humbly ask that you take a check on Amendment No 16. Madam President, firstly I would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, Mrs Gill and Mr Mulder, for the excellent work they have done. We look forward to the continuing cooperation that we have had, both inside and outside this House. Secondly, I would like to mention that our committee wishes to maintain all its amendments at this stage, especially those relating to Eurostat. I would also like to welcome the PPE-DE Group's proposal for an oral question to the Commission for the November Strasbourg part-session about the appalling information flow in Eurostat, the problems involving whistleblowers, the audits that lay untouched in Eurostat and the lack of political responsibility in the Commission. We would also like to ensure that our amendments on the Committee of the Regions are maintained in the light of what we have just read in the OLAF report in the confidential reading room. The report says that, in the case of printing contracts, the investigation revealed systematic and flagrant incompetence within the Committee of the Regions. As regards the Financial Controller, the most threatening aspect for the Committee on the Regions seems to be the endemic culture of unprofessionalism and improvisation, where lack of transparency is preferred to openness, for instance in reporting facts to OLAF. The Committee of the Regions will have to answer some serious questions. If we had known those facts when the amendments concerning it were tabled, my committee would have made them more forceful, not only cutting some of the Committee of the Regions' budget, but putting a substantial additional amount into the reserve. We are also very keen to see the amendment tabled by Mr Bösch on the live export of animals adopted and I know that our rapporteurs are working actively to achieve that. I finish as I started by thanking the rapporteurs. – I should like to agree with Mr Crowley's last couple of comments. The British Conservatives, who form the European Democratic wing of the PPE-DE Group, voted against the Bösch report in total because, yet again, there is mention of the European public prosecutor and explicit comments to confer more extensive powers on it when set up, thus leading to . It is quite amazing that this House, which is keen to see the European project go forward, is very casual about the way it looks at the legal system it is trying to create for the people of the European Union. The European public prosecutor has many problems, not least those previously mentioned by Mr Crowley in another speech, because Britain and Ireland have completely different legal systems to the European continent. Yet again the British Conservatives voted with great pleasure against another report. – Mr President, I too welcome the Court of Auditors' report but I wonder about the statement just made by Mr Fabra Vallés. It has a very interesting spin on the words you have actually written within your report. You mention in your statement a lack of balance in what is being said in the public arena at the moment and I agree with this. I would have liked to equal that balance out from the 300 Commission spin-doctors that have been saying things about Marta Andreassen recently and point Members of Parliament's attention to the fact that she was gagged by that very same Commission this morning. But what did you write? You wrote: 'Since the first statement of assurance in respect to the financial year 1994, the Court has repeated its reservations in respect to the reliability of the accounts. These reservations most often have their roots in the weakness of the accounting system and in the low awareness of the Commission's operational DGs etc.'. You also said: 'In the absence of a comprehensive accounting system, the year-end financial statements are drawn up largely on the basis of records which are not part of the accounts. I would say these are actually two quite shocking statements and, oddly enough, I would also say they back up exactly some of the things that Marta Andreassen, the Commission's former chief accountant, had been saying. If, as you just said in your statement, the accounts are so reliable, then why write those things in your report? If the accounts are so good, why did so many heads of departments refuse to sign their own accounts off without reservations? If your checks are so thorough, why do you not give us, the Parliament, a figure that we have requested for many years now, which is the percentage of money lost through fraud, mismanagement and waste – a figure you used to give us to allow us to have a benchmark to see if things are materially getting better. Finally, I have one or two questions for the Commissioner because I am quite sure that you are a wise political manoeuvrer, Commissioner Schreyer. I think you have probably heard a host of political speeches in this Parliament today about the Court of Auditors' reports and how people are framing themselves, looking forward to discharge. I believe you have a whole host of problems coming forward and, should you read the political tea-leaves correctly, you will be keen to get your reforms under way even quicker than you have done. So please, with that sort of political nous that you have, could you just answer a handful of very short questions for me? Who did sign off within the Commission the accounts in 2001? I think I have tabled this question to you and also a whole host of journalists have asked you this. We would really like that answer. Was it the Chief Accountant at the time? Was it the Director-General of Budgets? Was it you? Was it some secretary? Was it the commercial engineer you have employed as the Chief Accountant of the Commission presently? What is going on within your systems? We want reform. This Parliament urges you to reform, and if you do not quickly reform the system, then please leave and let someone who will do the job do it properly. – Mr President, I have passed to the Sittings Services a report from the Commission about its Investigation and Disciplinary Office. The report represents a staggering indictment of the Commission's ability to handle its own affairs, let alone those of the people of Europe. Over the last five years there have been 40 actions taken against individuals found to be guilty of a total of 48 infringements. Despite reported cases documented in this report of rape, fraud, paedophile pornography, misuse of funds, harassment, theft, forgery, striking and wounding, depraved behaviour, aggression, corruption and conflict of interest, only one individual has been dismissed in the last five years. The Commission's own disciplinary process is clearly unable to take the appropriate action against employees who commit hideous and, in some cases, criminal offences. This Parliament needs to know that those responsible for this failure have themselves been removed from their posts. What new immediate measures are being put in place to improve the process and what police action has resulted from any of these infringements over the last five years? I ask you to refer this matter to President Prodi as a matter of urgency. . – The UK delegation of the PPE-DE will be voting against this report as it proposes an extension of EU interference into areas not currently covered by EU competence. – Mr President, I know you are respecting Parliament's wishes concerning the number of part-sessions and our votes at previous plenary sessions on where they should be held, but could you confirm where we are going to have the meeting on 1 May 2004? A number of political groups and parties within this Parliament will decide how they vote on the eleventh plenary and its siting. Their vote will determine whether we meet in Brussels or in Strasbourg on that particular day. There is a precedent for us to meet in Brussels because the part-session on Saturday, 2 May 1998, when Parliament gave its verdict on the Ecofin decision on which Member States should join the euro, was held in Brussels. Mr President, I would like to start by saying how much I like the rapporteur for the 2002 discharge. He is a remarkably nice man and obviously a great author – an author of fiction. The Committee on Budgetary Control's report on the discharge of the 2002 Commission's accounts is probably the greatest work of fiction I have seen since I came to this Parliament. I am not as well read as many other Members here, but certain sections of it even have a science fiction tilt. One wonders whether one is looking into the future and talking about what is happening or going to happen in 2005, or whether we are dealing with 2002, which is the year in question. It was in early January 2002 that Marta Andreasen started work for the Commission, and five months into 2002 that she was suspended from her role as an accounting officer for the Commission. So we know that in 2002 there are five months in which there was something wrong with the Commission's accounts. It makes no difference which side of this particular argument you are on – whether you think Marta Andreasen was completely unqualified for the task she was given, whether you think she was completely incompetent or whether you actually think she was right and tried to present a reform that was then blocked from inside the Commission. The Commission must have thought that Christmas had come early when the rapporteur presented his report. It probably heard the reindeers' bells jingling and could not believe its luck. Today a number of journalists have been following me around the Parliament; something seems to happen when an election is imminent, and there is more interest in what we do and say. It is very difficult to explain to these journalists – for example the reporter from Rutland Radio who will reach the humble punter in Oakham – why between 5% and 8% of the Commission's budget goes missing through fraud, mismanagement and waste each year. How can one explain to the readers of the Lincolnshire Echo why it is that the accounts have been not been signed off by the European Court of Auditors? These are flawed accounts, there are problems in them and I certainly will not be voting for them. – Madam President, I wish to thank my own group for allowing this resolution to come this far. It is not often that we discuss urgencies that might be able to change something for the better. We are always very reactionary and talk about things that we really cannot affect. However, next month, before we sit again in Strasbourg, the European football championship starts. A number of problems have already been raised by people such as the Belgian Police Federation, and there have been many documentaries in various countries about various games and the security arrangements for Euro 2000. I know this is meant to be a human rights issue, and indeed it is about the rights of ordinary people. Every real supporter of football has the right to go to a football game and spectate, and then come away without a threat of violence, without problems on the streets and without being harassed unduly by people we do not particularly like to meet at any time: football hooligans. This is what this motion is about and I very much hope Members will support it. – Madam President, on the next amendment tabled by the EDD Group, I wonder whether you could give us some clarification, because it is my reading that if we vote for this amendment, it means our travel expenses will be reimbursed at cost, and if we vote against this amendment, then we maintain the present travel allowance. I just want to check this is actually the case, because it does change the way people might vote. – Madam President, a point of order. It is kind of Mr Corbett to raise the points under Annex III of our Rules of Procedure. Given that this is a fiftieth anniversary, we could take this at any part-session, rather than at this particular one. Therefore we could put it under a motion for debate at some point in the future. – Mr President, it is always a pleasure following Mr Dell'Alba, because he makes a British Euro-sceptic sound very sensible in this place. I would very much like to congratulate the rapporteur – someone I like and admire as a person and politician – on this report, but unfortunately I cannot. Had it not been for the amendments concerning OLAF being adopted at the committee stage, I would have struggled to find any part of this report to support. Fortunately this idea found very little support at Nice last weekend. The Council – as pointed out so eloquently by Mrs Rühle earlier – does not like this idea either. My personal view is that the European Public Prosecutor is just the first step along the road to , a body of common law across the continent. Indeed I believe that is what the Commissioner feels too. Perhaps, Commissioner, you would be so kind as to let me know whether that is the case – whether this is the first step to something that would be a common body of law across the continent. I thought I heard you say something similar to that in committee. I should also like to know why the Commission's paper on this subject had its release delayed until the day after the Danish referendum on the euro. Perhaps the Commission knows that whilst this proposal has some support in the political classes of Europe, its support stretches no further than that. Often in argument for a European Public Prosecutor, you hear that these proposals are only to protect the Community's financial interests – something that everybody should agree with. Interestingly though, they are often sold as being a small step – there is not much behind them. So why all the concern? Well, for those of us who are still wading through the Court of Auditors' report, we will find that one definition of fraud against the Community is the black market – paying for goods , as they say in Brussels. This is fraud against the Community because the EU takes a small percentage of all VAT transactions. So another question springs to mind: if the European Public Prosecutor is allowed to investigate every VAT transaction across Europe, how big will that office be? There are so many other questions – the relationship with OLAF, who appoints the European public prosecutor, who they report to and how it affects the Member States – that I am afraid I am urging the British Conservatives and others to vote against this report. – Mr President, I will start by declaring an interest, because I have been a Class 1 football referee for 18 years now and I am attached to the English FA, and also by congratulating both France for winning the Euro 2000 championship in such a fantastic way, and alas, begrudgingly Germany for winning the World Cup bid for 2006. I also want to make sure that we actually condemn hooligans in a very strong way in this House; all hooligans whatever country they come from and whatever their background. I note what Mr Van Hecke said about the repatriation of a number of English football fans on C130 planes. It was a great shame in fact that the Belgian police overreacted in such a way by clearing bars of decent ordinary football-loving supporters, taking them with the dross that are the football hooligans. The question is: what message was sent out by the football authorities going back a number of months before the Euro 2000 championship? We had a problem with two Leeds fans being murdered in a UEFA Cup game in Istanbul against Galatasaray, yet no action was taken against Galatasaray – they were not thrown out of the UEFA Cup. In Denmark when Galatasaray played Arsenal, a number of Arsenal fans were arrested yet not charged with hooliganism. Then we have the inaction by the British government, which chose not to impose any extra sanctions on stopping people from travelling, even though they knew they might cause trouble. So all these factors actually led to a number of people thinking: "Well this Euro 2000 championship is a soft touch. We should be allowed to go there, and we are going to go and have a good fight", instead of watching the wonderful festival of football that it should have been. This Parliament and others on the outside should step back, because we have a breathing space now where we can take a reasoned view of what actions we should realistically take against football hooligans, and compare that with the rights of people to freely move about our continent. – Mr President, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteurs – and indeed the people of Wales, because I did not realize they were so concerned about the Commission's welfare that they had elected someone to represent the Commission's views in Parliament rather than their own! I would also like to say, just to correct something that Mrs Morgan said earlier, that I am very lucky in this debate, because my party declared in our manifesto – which helped so many of us on this side get elected – that we would not give discharge to any EU accounts until the Commission reform process had been successfully implemented. I cannot therefore follow the lead of our excellent rapporteur, who recommends granting discharge to the Commission, for the reasons I have already given and because many people outside this place have been wondering what actually improved between 1996 and 1998. Most people believe that things got worse within the Commission in that time rather than better. I only joined the Committee on Budgetary Control a couple of months ago, and to me the meetings and the reports of the last two months have raised probably more questions than they have answered. To close, I would like to ask two of those questions. Firstly, can the Commission confirm whether Mr Fléchard is related in any way to Mr Delors and/or members of his cabinet? Secondly, can he confirm whether any of his or Commissioner Kinnock's cabinet have actively lobbied MEPs for support of the Socialist Group, and in particular for Mrs Morgan's amendments on the Stauner report? If they have, would this not be an abuse of their position? – Mr President, yesterday we had a short debate in this House about a very serious matter: asking the Commission to respond in a debate to allegations concerning its Budgets DG. Unfortunately, it transpires that in that debate Mr Watson, the leader of the Liberal Group, factually misled the House and thereby influenced the House by indicating that the Director-General of the Commission's internal audit service, Mr Muis, was attending last night's meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control to discuss this matter and therefore no debate was needed. Mr Muis did not attend last night. In fact it is only because of pressure applied at last night's meeting by the PSE Group and the PPE-DE Group that he could be attending a meeting next week. Would Mr Watson like to tell us whether he deliberately misled the House, or is this just another example of British Liberal Democrats' inability to call failing Commissioners to account? – Mr President, I welcome the Commission statement and I am pleased to see we are becoming more , emerging from the dark age of accounting that the Commission presently inhabits. It is interesting to hear that you are going to check the receipts of Commission monies – who gets contracts, where tenders go. You are going to change your bookkeeping rules, your IT systems and your project management. But what do you preside over now? What has the Commission been doing for the last few years? Why has it taken so long for this reform to be introduced? More importantly, having now confirmed that every allegation levelled by Mrs Marta Andreasen was correct, where was the part – maybe I missed it in your statement – where you apologised for the personal slurs on Mrs Andreasen's background and character, made on and off the record by your press service? Could you now say that the disciplinary process against your former chief accountant will stop and she will be brought in to drive through these reforms that she told you you needed this time last year? Finally, who ever signed off the Commission's accounts in 2001? – Mr President, I make this point of order now, whilst everybody is leaving. I hope that, as well as recording exactly what Mr McMillan-Scott said within his brief explanation of the BBC apology, that two Members – one of the British Labour delegation and one of the British Liberal delegation – who made similar allegations following the broadcast actually now write to Mr Kirkhope and apologise to him personally. *** Mr President, I know that many Members have very important commitments back in their constituencies and regions, and maybe even more important appointments back at the airport. However, we have been waiting for a number of reports, especially the Zappalà report, to come to the floor of this House for a reasonable period of time now. We all have our voting lists in front of us, we were sent here to vote on these issues, so can we now get on with it? It seems that we are putting things off for no reason whatsoever. . – Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur, who is nearly at the end of the second reading. I need to remind him, from a control point of view that we anticipate and look forward to him taking a keen interest in how the budget is implemented by the Commission next year and how he drives it forward from there. The Committee on Budgetary Control tabled a number of amendments to the budget to gain extra information and evaluations from the Commission. We are actually getting somewhere this year. It is a tactic we have decided to use in future years as well. We would also like to thank the Committee on Budgets for allowing us to have a say on transfers, in which we are particularly interested. Finally, I thank the rapporteur again for taking a keen interest in the amendment concerning the European Court of Auditors. We on the committee will be looking at this carefully because we understand that the Court of Auditors will be coming to us for more money, staff and resources in the future. We are very interested to see how this year's situation develops over the course of 2002. – Madam President, on the same point of order that Mr Duff raised earlier, the roll-call vote has just shown that we are not quorate, so therefore, under the same rules, I would like to ask for the quorum to be established and I call on Members to support me by standing. – I disagree with Mr Fatuzzo on the Theato report because, as the European Democratic wing of the EPP, as the British Conservatives are, we were completely against the Theato report from start to finish. We felt that the initial proposal was amended out of sight by the rapporteur and she put in her proposal that the European public prosecutor would lead to . It was mentioned many times that initially the European public prosecutor would be the first stage only to protect the Community's financial interest which would then lead on to much greater things. Madam President, even though you asked me to group together my roll-call votes – I was surprised you asked me in this particular report and not someone else in the Fiori report. You will have noticed that the British Conservatives actually managed to persuade a number of different delegations in this House to get a majority against some of the proposals. However, the whole report as it stood is still unacceptable. . – Mr President, I would firstly like to acknowledge the work that the Court of Auditors did in producing the report that my report is based on which contained lots of detailed work. I would also like to thank the services of our committee which helped me a very great deal and indeed the ECB itself which kindly entertained me in Frankfurt for a day and told me where my report was going wrong. There is a tiny bit of history behind this report. On 31 May 1998 the European Monetary Institute changed to the European Central Bank. The president was still the same person and 402 of the 407 staff that were working in the EMI changed also to the ECB. The ECB took on all the assets and liabilities of the EMI. The Court of Auditors' report identified a number of problem areas which I will come to shortly. The European Central Bank replied to the report, but its replies were certainly short, I would say ‘terse’, and the Court of Auditors found them quite inadequate since they did not give any indications of actions that the ECB intended to take to remedy the shortcomings exposed by the Court of Auditors' report. There were two main areas where the Court of Auditors identified problems. There are equally two areas in which Parliament, and in particular the Committee on Budgetary Control, took a great interest. The Committee was obviously interested in the Bank's relationship with OLAF, and this is summarised in my report's Conclusion 4 which, if will allow me, I will read. This states: "Welcomes the public commitment of the European Central Bank, in its annual report for 1999, to establish a cooperative relationship with the European Anti-Fraud Office OLAF but regrets clear incompatibility between the public commitment assumed by the ECB in its 1999 annual report to establish close cooperation with OLAF and the decision by the ECB itself to prevent OLAF from carrying over internal investigations, pending the ruling by the European Court of Justice." That is a court case that is ongoing. The other part that the Committee was very interested in was the contradictory procedure. It took ages in this particular case, and when I asked both institutions why, they both said that they had replied in the time that they were given and quite within the guidelines. So, I can only blame the postal services of Frankfurt and Luxembourg, and I guess they need greater liberalisation. However, I am sure these problems will not occur in future. The main areas specified as problems in the Court of Auditors' report concerned the ECB's project management and monitoring. The Court of Auditors' report noted a lack of any commitments accounting system which had caused great concern; that it was difficult to track project development simply and coherently; and that the ECB had engaged a company of consultants to run some foreign currency reserve subledger projects in July 1998, but by the end of the year the ECB had still not designated a full-time manager for this project, although that was essential for the monitoring of the consultants' work. It also pointed to a number of IT problems. The other point was extraordinary bonuses. I still find it extraordinary that the Bank whose primary objective is price stability saw its way to paying some staff the equivalent of a 38% bonus. The excuse is that they had worked a lot in the past – worked a lot of overtime – put a lot of work in – and that some of these staff were being paid only 9% over a period of years and this was almost like catch-up pay. But that is just shoddy management and really should not occur in a Bank like this. As to my tactics, I was not really sure what I should do. As someone who is not a great fan of the European single currency and certainly not his country's entry into it, I had a dilemma with this report. Whilst I would like to demand that the ECB take note of what the Court of Auditors has said, I could have used this report to attack the ECB and got great headlines for myself back home, but that was not the role of the rapporteur. So I went to the ECB and asked for a meeting. They kindly took me to Frankfurt, and I was told that they had changed their bonus policy, that they had understood the problems in project management, and so my report is, if not actually nice, then enhanced by this meeting with the ECB. At my meeting with the ECB, I was told that it had solved its problems especially relating to the bonus and this would not happen again and it would send a letter to the Committee detailing its current bonus policy. As it transpires, this letter has never turned up, and that is a great shame because the European Central Bank should not really fear criticism from this institution. We are simply doing our job. When problems occur, and they always will, it should not be the job of the ECB to paper over the cracks and pull down the shutters. It should deal with the problems and tell the EU and its public how it has dealt with them and not have a panic attack over how it communicates these things. As my speech has suggested, the report could easily have been a lot stronger, and the ECB has got off fairly lightly this year. If similar or more problems occur next year, they might find such a report a bit tougher, unless they choose to actually open up, have a dialogue with our Committee, become more transparent and talk to all of us in this Parliament. – Mr President, I must declare an interest because I am a Class I soccer referee and very active in that and have been involved in football at many levels for 18 years. This resolution looks at the security and safety arrangements ahead of Euro 2000 so that decent football-loving supporters from across Europe can go to, watch and come away from football games this summer without fear or concern for their safety: a fairly apt thing to call for considering the recent events in Copenhagen. Most Members will find this motion uncontentious. However, I do understand that there are some queries about the question of the suitability of the Charleroi stadium and its ability to safely host the England versus Germany game on 17 June. These I will tackle now because I believe these points are what people want to hear about. I thank the BBC Watchdog Programme for providing me with details of the findings of a renowned British sports stadia expert, Dr Jim Dickey. He found, after just a brief examination of the temporary structure above the north stand in Charleroi, that there were too many seats in the rows, the stand is too steep, the safety barriers are too low, the exits from the stand are too narrow and the stairways at the back of the stand are too wide. This stand, like all the others, will be full to capacity on 17 June. Meanwhile, a few miles up the road, the King Baudouin stadium, Belgium's national stadium, and now probably one of the safest stadia in all of Europe, will lie empty that day. I understand the regional pride of many members from Belgium and I do not question that much time is being spent by the organisers of Euro 2000 looking into the safety and security aspects of the competition. But surely, common sense should prevail and the future of this particular fixture at its current venue should be actively re-examined. I do hope that Members will support this motion, because this is something we can actually change for the better. Why not look at an event beforehand and not worry about the consequences of the bad actions of a few violent people after such a football event. – In yesterday's , Arthur Levitt, a former Chairman of the US Securities and Exchange Commission wrote "Investors, public companies, accounting firms, stock markets and regulators around the world today face one of the great challenges for the global financial system's future: how to fashion an enduring system of comparable, uniform and high-quality financial reporting that is accepted just as much in Europe as it is in the US, and in developed countries as in emerging ones. It is a challenge born less out of crisis and more out of evolutionary progress". He continues "The explosive growth of markets and economies makes developing such a system an imperative. All agree that there is simply no other way to ensure the efficient allocation of capital on a long-term and global basis." This proposal is part of the European Union's wider response to the challenges described by Mr Levitt and, in particular, it deals with the problem of relatively new types of financial instruments, for example, derivatives and hedge funds. This directive requires Member States to permit or require all or certain companies to adopt fair value, as opposed to historic cost accounting, where it is appropriate to do so and in the manner spelt out in the directive. It creates a flexible regime and allows Member States considerable discretion in line with the application of the principle of subsidiarity, according to the circumstances as they see it. It is intended as a first step towards establishing an accounting regime across Europe which meets the requirement of a modern global market place and which, in particular, will provide those who read company accounts with the kind of information they will want and should be entitled to know. The proposal in front of the House today, together with the amendments – all of which were agreed unanimously in committee – are the result of close collaboration between myself, on behalf of the Legal Affairs Committee, and the Council and Commission, in an effort to reach an agreed formulation which could enable this directive to be dealt with in a single reading. I believe that this work has been brought to a mutually satisfactory conclusion and I commend it. – Mr President, the European Union’s achievement has been to interpose a European-wide transnational legal order between national and international law based on the Treaties which, as the European Court of Justice has pointed out, have some of the characteristics of a constitution. No-one would hold up the existing structure of the Treaties as a model of their kind and it must be in the interests of the politician, administrator, businessman and citizen to simplify their structure. The proposals in the Duhamel report which do that must be welcomed. The second part of his report is more ambitious and hence contentious, questioning the mechanics of the way in which the Treaties – and hence the quasi-constitution – is changed. It is true that to an English common lawyer this is unknown territory. But to those in the United States, Canada or Australia this is much more familiar ground. It is an important topic which requires serious attention. I say to my own countrymen that it should not be dismissed out of hand. Rather, while I am far from convinced by a number of the detailed proposals in the report, I welcome the debate it opens because it raises important questions which require thought-through, considered and dispassionate answers. – The single market is one of the great achievements of the European Community. To have turned the distinct and fragmented markets of the Member States into a single European market is an extraordinary and revolutionary change. While it is true that the process has not yet been completed, it has been set on an irrevocable course. The mechanics needed to achieve this change are very extensive, as can be seen from even the most cursory examination of Lord Cockfield's 1992 programme, one of the most revolutionary, yet on the face of it unexciting programmes of the post-war world. Within that framework there is clearly a choice of instruments for putting the single market in place which can be described as the choice between harmonization and mutual recognition. Of these, harmonization is more seductive for the gung-ho politician who wants to be seen doing something, one of the scourges of the contemporary world. In my view systems of mutual recognition are more attractive. They are after all more subtle and sophisticated. The insensitive imposition of harmonization has caused untold political damage to the European political enterprise and had the single market been based more on mutual recognition and less on harmonization Europe's political condition would be much less febrile than it is today. One of the great difficulties in establishing a network of mutual recognition is the complexity of the procedures required to put it into place and to ensure the ongoing compatibility and appropriateness of the mutual recognition network. This requires ongoing monitoring and we very much welcome the revision of the series of directives which are the subject of this debate this evening. As the rapporteur, Mr Wieland, has pointed out in his excellent report, this directive is primarily about procedures as they relate to the recognition of diplomas. Finally, if I might conclude on a parochial note, as a United Kingdom MEP, we especially welcome the extension of the minimum length for specific training in general medical practice for doctors from two to three years. Secondly, we welcome the stipulation that Member States are to examine the qualifications already recognised in one Member State which have been obtained in a third country. Finally, and more generally, I would like to reiterate the rapporteur's general conclusion that this is all far too difficult and complicated for anyone other than an expert or a lawyer and every effort must be made to simplify the law and make it more user-friendly so that the single market is understood by all our citizens. – On the face of it these two proposals appear to be implementing certain procedural changes to facilitate freedom of movement across Europe and to give effect to the recent court cases Mrs Berger referred to in her opening remarks. However, in the case of the United Kingdom, we believe they go further than that in a manner which is unacceptable. Partly this is substance and partly it is in respect of the legal base in regard to the special position of the United Kingdom. Under the arrangements contained in the Treaties, the United Kingdom retains its border controls. Under the system proposed in these pieces of legislation, third country nationals wishing to move to the UK under the procedures described, will do so by virtue of the service provision card issued by another Member State, thereby by-passing UK border controls. If there is to be a change to the present United Kingdom border arrangements, that change should be made by the United Kingdom Government and the United Kingdom Parliament and not  by the European legislative process. For that reason, we shall vote against both these proposals. – I too would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Malmström on this report. It is an important proposal because it introduces a more formal structure into the process of Parliament's scrutiny of the Commission's legislative programme, which is, after all, a very important component of one of our most important functions – that is to say, scrutinising and holding the Commission to account. Following what the Commission is up to is always slightly difficult unless one is a true initiate of the workings of the European political system. Most people are not, and so to introduce a more formal structure into this process is, in my view, a very desirable development because it should assist those outside the circle of initiates, by providing as it does a series of markers for the cycle of the year's business. Ignorance of the way in which the European Union works, coupled with the failure of national parliaments to oversee and scrutinise European matters properly, are two of the great weaknesses in the European political structure as it has developed. Now, while it is for national parliaments themselves to determine their own agendas, I as a Member of the British second Chamber as well as a Member of this House feel that the formal structuring of the way that the European Parliament scrutinises what the Commission is doing may well be a very useful template for scrutiny by national parliaments and at the same time for disseminating accurate facts about what is going on at European level, to the benefit of all our citizens. – Mr President, when I and my British Conservative colleagues fought the last European elections in 1999, one of our core policies was that the unsatisfactory character of the terms and conditions which we, as MEPs, enjoy should be revised and updated. During the last three years or so, we have talked a lot but realistically we have achieved much less. The key to achieving a satisfactory outcome to this problem must be the attainment of a political agreement between Parliament and the Council on a package of terms and conditions for Members of the European Parliament which are appropriate to the twenty-first century. These must then be converted into proper legal form in the manner envisaged by the Treaties. We must not allow ourselves to be side-tracked by debates and possible disagreement over the details of the mechanics of how this process of technical transposition is to be put into effect, because if we do that it gets in the way of achieving the necessary political agreement. Of course, that political agreement is the essential pre-condition of the next stage, the completion of the legal and constitutional formalities, and as said by almost every speaker, and there is agreement about this, that has got to be done by the next European elections. Once all the rhetoric is cut out, it is just as simple as that. –Mr President, for as long as mankind has been here on earth, he has been polluting. The more people there are, the more sophisticated they become, the worse that pollution potentially gets. Some damage, given human nature and the fallen world we live in, is inevitable. Self-evidently, prevention is the first priority and in any event, pollution should be kept to a minimum. But where it does occur, those responsible should make amends. What we must recognise, however, is that much of what creates a threat to our environment may not only be helping mankind in other ways but may actually be helping the environment itself. This legislation is a piece of civil, not criminal, law. It is not about punishing wrongdoers but apportioning and allocating responsibility for environmental damage. Punishment should be meted out by criminal sanctions not civil liability. There are others who see this as a skirmish in some kind of Manichean struggle between the public sector, which is good, and the private sector, which is bad. Such 20th-century class warfare has no place today. The two are complementary. They are interdependent and responsibility for the consequences of pollution should be shared and allocated between them. The private sector cannot and should not walk away from the consequences of its actions, and the public sector, and indeed society and the public at large cannot wash their hands and privatise the responsibilities incurred in regulating the private sector while enjoying the benefits which accrue from their actions. Further, since pollution is a practical problem, remedial actions must be practical too. Fantasy solutions are as detrimental as pollution itself. It is for these reasons that the British Conservatives support the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market's amendments to the draft directive. They are not perfect and we expect to see improvements in second reading as the Council further refines European thinking on this important topic. But they represent a further responsible step on the journey of dealing with the consequences of pollution across Europe and the wider world. – Mr President, some Members of the PPE/DE Group support Mr Rothley's report and some do not. I am one of the latter. I would like to explain why. The rationale behind the proposal that Member State governments will be able to allow publishers, artificially, to keep up the cost of "literature" as opposed to – as I understand it – airport novels, seems to me to be both silly and wrong. In my own country the abolition of re-sale price-fixing for books has coincided with an increase in numbers of books sold and published. No doubt this is partly the result of developments in technology, but to maintain that making literature more expensive than it need be is in some way in the public interest frankly stretches my incredulity beyond breaking point. I should like to give an example. As the House may know, the Commissioner has written a number of books. There was one particular one that caught my fancy, which I thought I might like to buy. The cover price was not that expensive but it struck me as being a bit on the high side, so I sucked my teeth a bit and did not get it. But then I saw in a bookshop a discounted copy. Before you could say "knife" I had opened my wallet, put my money on the table and had a copy of the book. I was the beneficiary of the Commissioner's wisdom and he had a small advantage of my money which otherwise would not have occurred. Having said all that I am a believer in subsidiarity. It seems to me that if Member States wish to introduce some kind of book pricing regime into their own country, it is not for me to stand in their way. I say that subject to one proviso, and an important one: against that background the rules of the single market should apply in their entirety. Books published elsewhere in the Community, in whatever language, should be able to be imported and sold according to the rules in force and the place of publication. Those are exactly the same principles as apply in the case of satellite broadcasting, which is essentially similar. Mr President, the history of the package of terms and conditions of Members of this House is not a very glorious one and it does no particular credit to all those who have been involved with it, who seem somehow to be hexed by the subject matter. I do not want to go over old ground. The current version of the Members' Statute is not perfect – far from it. But in the real world it is probably as good as one can hope to get. From our point of view we British Conservatives have four cardinal principles: firstly salary should be comparable to our national MPs' salaries; secondly we should pay the same tax as our constituents; thirdly the expenses regime should be cleaned up; and finally there should be a clean break with the past. The proposed salary is not the same as a UK MPs' salary, but the overall package is not dissimilar when all aspects are taken in the round. We shall pay tax on the same basis as our constituents. The expenses regime is going to be cleaned up and, while there is not an entirely clean break with the past, the anomalies are such that I do not assess them to be very great and they will of course waste away over time. As a result, we shall vote for it. I would like to conclude by saying to all those who are likely to be the important players in the end game: do not faff about. Let us get the whole matter done and dusted in double quick time! – Mr President, it is not often that this Chamber witnesses real political drama. However, it did so on that day some two-and-a-half years ago when Parliament rejected the takeover directive. Nothing I have seen or heard since then has made me change my mind that what we did was not only wrong but also foolish. In an increasingly interdependent world, where the globe's economy is seamlessly linking together, the single greatest economic challenge we face in Europe – a challenge which we lose at our peril - is global competitiveness. We all know that we are very good at talking about it and we are equally bad at doing anything material to address the problem. Furthermore, whenever Europe has to face up eyeball to eyeball to the challenges posed by competitiveness, we funk it. We funked it that day two-and-a-half years ago, and we have regularly funked it since. We always use special pleading about the minutiae as an intellectual fig leaf to avoid the tough decisions. It must be said that it is all pretty transparent. To set the picture straight: I may be a British Conservative, but I am not the contemporary equivalent of the hard-faced men who made money out of the war. I am no Thatcherite – never have been – and I am not a Eurosceptic, but I think – some consider this to be an eccentric point of view – that we should deal with the world as it is and not the world as we would like it to be. If Europe is to deliver for its citizens – and it has to – our economy has to be competitive. Part of that state of competitiveness is to have a system of company law and capital markets that enables it to compete. It does not now, and that problem has to be dealt with. The proposals we are debating this afternoon are a miserable, insufficient response to today's world. However, we have to start from where we are. I hope Commissioner Bolkestein will be able to confirm that in the event of this proposal becoming law further proposals will follow this one, taking the matter forward – and rather more quickly than this one has been taken because, if it is not taken more quickly, if I am lucky I will be drawing my pension and if I am unlucky I shall be dead. Nevertheless, it is a single, wretched, shuffling step on the journey that Europe has to take. There is no choice. It is for that reason we shall support it as long as Mr Lehne's proposals are not amended or watered down. On balance – just – it is worse to reject it than to support it and for a Conservative that is a good enough reason to vote for it. – I wish to begin by welcoming Mr Graça Moura's report. While I am not a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, I am one of the vice-chairmen of the Delegation for relations with the Peoples' Republic of China and so take a considerable interest in what is happening there. From my perspective, the most significant development in China of recent years is the move towards China becoming incorporated into the world trading system. Not merely is this significant, as it takes China into the world community of nations, it also brings China into the evolving new system of decision-making in an increasingly interdependent world. I would like to make two particular points which arise from this. First, for Chinese membership of the World Trade Organisation to be a success, it is necessary for legal certainty and even-handedness to apply to commercial relations between Chinese business and firms from outside. If and when these relationships go wrong, and it is bound to happen from time to time, there is an overriding requirement for there to be in place proper legal processes to deal even-handedly and fairly with outstanding causes of disagreement. I know that steps are being taken to enable this to occur and I very much support and welcome them because without them WTO membership cannot be a success. Secondly, it is a characteristic of current developments in international relations that the traditional demarcation between domestic and foreign policy is breaking down. Regardless of whether human rights issues in the past may have been treated as purely domestic considerations, increasingly now they are not. Regardless of the situation in classical international law, these things are important to people outside China. They will and do take them into account in making policy, be it political or commercial. The same equally applies within the European Union. How these aspects of life are handled domestically in China now has, and will continue in the future to have, repercussions on the way in which relations between China and both foreign countries and foreign businesses develop. – Mr President, if the House follows my recommendation – which I hope it will – this will achieve an outcome that was agreed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and can be accepted by the Commission and the Council. The pattern of the voting list is slightly convoluted because the text is complicated and what is proposed deals with drafting points. I have endeavoured to be open about this and I know that the Socialist Group has had concerns. This morning I spoke with Mr Berenguer, the shadow rapporteur, who I believe can now confirm that he is content with what I am suggesting, i.e. that we should vote against the second half of Amendment No 3 and against Amendment No 6. If my suggestion is followed, it should lead to the adoption of this important text in a single reading. . – Mr President, in the aftermath of the Enron scandal, it is tempting simply to say that these proposals for the introduction of international accounting standards into the Community are an idea whose time has come. But it is wrong to see it simply in those terms, because there is more to it than that. If Europe is to match the United States economically, we need to create a single capital market; otherwise borrowing will also be more expensive here, which in turn inevitably favours the United States. One of the over-riding imperatives of Europe's economy must be to compete in the global market, and this change is a necessary precondition to that end. In its consideration of these proposals by the Legal Affairs Committee, a very wide-ranging rewording of the text has been carried out which I understand is acceptable to both the Commission and the Council and which also meets the concerns of the committee. I therefore hope that if Parliament as a whole agrees, we may be able to deal with this proposal in a single reading, which will in turn convey a significant message around the globe. In particular, some important elements have been introduced and a number should be mentioned. These include the following: firstly, following President Prodi's statement to Parliament last month about the comitology aspects of the Lamfalussy proposal, the Commission has agreed that the relevant and appropriate principles contained in it will be applied  in this instance. I would therefore be extremely grateful if the Commissioner will be able to confirm this to the House now, since it is an important and crucial point to Members. Secondly, in the special case of European Community companies filing their accounts in U.S. GAAP on a regulated exchange in a third country, they will be able to defer implementation of the relevant provisions of this Regulation until 2007 as opposed to 2005. Thirdly, it has been clarified that the agreed international accounting standards will be published in their legally binding form in the Official Journal in all the official languages. Fourthly, this proposal expressly excludes the mandatory application of international accounting standards as far as SMEs are concerned. It is of course open to Member States to apply them nationally, but that is a matter for them and not for us. In any event, as a result, I understand, of a Community initiative, the International Accounting Standards Council is going to consider the whole question of accounting issues and SMEs, which of course is something which is entirely separate from what we are discussing now. It is also important to explain to the House that this Regulation is in any event contained within the parameters of the existing European Community accounting code and that the standards themselves can only be adopted by the International Accounting Standards Committee after a rigorous and transparent process agreed by the IASC in its own properly adopted and legally enforceable constitution. It should also be made quite clear that the Commission plays an important role – as do the Member States' standard setters – in the formulation of the standards according to the IASC's due process procedures. In addition, a wide range of affected sectors in Europe have a formal relationship with the Commission in this regard through EFRAG, the European Financial Reporting Advisory Group, which has been established for this purpose. As I said in my opening remarks, in the aftermath of the Enron collapse in the United States, this proposal is timely because it is highly unlikely that such a debacle could have occurred under this approach to accounting standards, which is purposive or teleological as opposed to prescriptive. But of course, in itself, that is insufficient to avoid fraud and misfeasance. Proper enforcement, as is always the case with all legislation, is essential; and elements to achieve that are distinct from but obviously associated with standard setting. In a world where accounting standards generally register low on the Richter scale of political newsworthiness, they have a much higher profile now than is normal. For Europe to pass this legislation and apply international accounting standards would be a major step towards establishing a worldwide set of accounting rules and, what is more, a set of worldwide rules in the establishment and creation of which Europe will play an important part. Mr President, this is the prize. It is now, I believe, within our grasp. If we in Parliament support this proposal, it will mean that Parliament is seen to be serious about business and commerce, and it will show the world that Europe means business about business. And that is the goal of the financial services action plan. – Mr President, as a Cumbrian – born, bred and resident – and one of the representatives of north-west England, there is nobody in this Parliament who has been more affected by the reverberations arising from recent events at Sellafield than me. Let us be clear. There have been real lapses in the way in which it has been managed. Those lapses quite simply are not acceptable. Speaking as a Cumbrian I know a lot of people in my home county – which I have the privilege to represent – feel let down by British Nuclear Fuels. But as has already been pointed out, there have been no breaches of the law or of the regulator's rules and guidelines. In a society subject to the rule of law recent events cannot be used to close the plant. I know that there are many people who would like to see Sellafield closed down. In particular I know this is a very strongly held view in parts of Ireland. In a free society, if that is how people feel, they must be allowed to articulate their opinions. But that is no reason why the plant should be closed. There can be no question of any lawfully established enterprise in any part of the European Union being closed by the public authorities without its breaking the law. This true in Ireland, Denmark, the United Kingdom or any other Member State. The owners – that is to say the United Kingdom Government – and the employees of Sellafield have legitimate interests which quite simply cannot be swept under the carpet. This applies in this case just as much as to anybody else. Finally, just as the recent crisis at Sellafield has been self-inflicted, so the solution to it lies in British Nuclear Fuels' hands, as they themselves understand. I wish them well. But words are not enough. They must be matched by deeds – their deeds. Over the winter of 1998/99 the European Parliament came of age, bringing about the resignation of the Santer Commission and in so doing established its proper place in the European political order. I fear however we have failed as an institution in the manner in which we have scrutinised the Prodi Commission, which has been unstructured, insufficiently in-depth and inconsistent. That has made it impossible for me to endorse the Member States’ nominations. Before the next Commission is scrutinised I believe Parliament must instruct the Rules Committee to draw up comprehensive procedures covering all aspects of a much more thorough and in-depth series of hearings. Unless that is done we shall destroy public confidence in us and let down the European public whom I believe have not been well served by Parliament’s actions in respect of the Prodi Commission. – Mr President, I must begin by apologising for being delayed, thank to the vicissitudes of the European travel system. Mr Bourlanges's report is, in my view, an extremely virtuoso piece of work and, I must say, as an individual, I admire it very much. However, it reflects a very different tradition of political thinking from that in my own country. After all, what he has done is to create a theoretical template into which the workings of the European institutions and, in particular, certain aspects of the relationship between the European Parliament and the other institutions should be inserted. I believe this is the wrong way around. Rather, the best solution to the matters and problems he raises is to decide on the particular procedures, processes and mechanisms needed to handle most effectively the particular issues concerned and then to define and describe the workings of the European Union in that way. Quite regardless of the subject matter, some of which we Conservatives like and some of which we do not, we shall be voting against the report because we believe it looks at its subject matter the wrong way around – in a way that we believe is wrong for Europe. – Mrs Fourtou’s report is valuable because it provides an important gloss on the Commission’s green paper ‘Combating counterfeiting and piracy in the single market’. This document clearly sets out the importance of intellectual property in the contemporary world and the damage that theft of that property can do. While many people quite rightly consider that burglary is wrong, there is not somehow the same feeling about, for example, the illegal taking and using of intellectual property, for example, pirated CDs or using Napster to get other people’s music off the Internet. But, of course, there is no fundamental difference between the two. In some ways the most interesting challenge posed by these relatively new forms of crime are the means of countering them. Clearly, in any pan-national single market, measures cannot be confined to a single Member State’s jurisdiction but it does not automatically follow that the correct answer is European-wide harmonisation of penalties, criminal law and procedures. There is undoubtedly an overriding requirement for coordination and a single strategy to deal with the counterfeiters and pirates, but the principles of mutual recognition have not, in my view, been given the prominence I would like to have seen in the conclusions to the report. This tends to emphasise the need to harmonise more than is appropriate or necessary in the circumstances. However, having said that, it is important for the European Union’s judicial area to have a coherent and comprehensive framework for dealing with the problems of counterfeiting and piracy which is widely carried out both within and without the Union by increasingly determined and technologically sophisticated criminals. We are often glibly told, rightly in fact I believe, that we are moving into a knowledge-based society. We therefore cannot allow that knowledge to be stolen from those to whom it belongs as doing that will undermine the economic base of the society. If that happens, we allow it to happen at our peril. . – I am chairman of the C.N. Group, which owns several newspapers. For that reason, in order to avoid any suggestion of a conflict of interest, I shall not participate in the vote on this report. – Mr President, I must begin by congratulating Mr Moreira Da Silva on his reports and immediately declare an interest. I own some woods in the United Kingdom, the economics of which in the present state of the economy are quite hopeless. Yet my trees, and those of many others, clean up CO2 emissions discharged by some of the wealthiest companies in the land. No woodland owner gets a penny piece directly from this important social function and monetary payments for environmental permits and their trading must, it seems to me, have to work their way through to those who actually grow and manage the trees and not be expropriated by exchequers and others on the way. Obviously, unless forestry pays, nobody is going to plant the trees and if the trees are not planted they cannot clean up the CO2. In addition, it is quite wrong for the relatively poor industry to clean up the mess left by the relatively rich industry, free, gratis and for nothing. This in turn offers a potential further income stream for beleaguered farmers and others in the countryside to help rebuild its economic base, which at present, as we all know, is producing too much food at too high a price. Agriculture is a multi-output industry and public expenditure may well be necessary to achieve the full range of public goods the industry can and should produce. Given the potential of biomass and other crops for energy generation and for the production of hydrogen, if one contrasts the quantity of money supporting the production of unwanted food, and compares that with support for these alternative outputs and their utilising technologies, the disparity is self-evident. There is a very strong case for rebalancing the figures because unless new, sustainable agricultural outputs are devised, farming and the countryside's problems can only get worse. This is as much a matter of CAP reform as it is of environmental policy and it is only by drawing together the two that sensible progress can be made. .I tried to tell the House that, as some colleagues know, almost all my livestock contracted foot-and-mouth disease and were slaughtered. However, since I do not consider the proposed Committee of Inquiry will affect me financially, I voted in favour of the inquiry. – Mr President, I would like to preface my few remarks by echoing comments made by other speakers in thanking Mrs Palacio for the work that she has done on this report. It is not merely that she is not proposing any amendments – although that is an example that some rapporteurs might follow with advantage, rather it is because she has recognised the overriding importance of taking this legislation forward and putting it on the statute book. As has been mentioned this evening, -commerce and online business are developing very rapidly and it is very important that we put in place a legislative framework in Europe within which it can develop and flourish. Indeed, as Mrs Wallis said, you must remember it is not only within Europe. It is actually a global industry and it is around the world that we want to see a proper framework established. It is always easy to be wise after the event and no doubt if we do proceed apace we may not achieve a 100% satisfactory outcome. It is one of the interesting characteristics of the Community system of legislation that it is relatively easy to bring forward amending legislation. This can be done quickly if necessary, as Mr Lehne pointed out. So there is no reason to delay. Speed on this occasion is of the essence. It is important that we are not distracted from setting a framework within which -commerce can develop for the benefit of both business and the consumer. Professor MacCormick said that there seems to be a very great deal of agreement about the need to go forward without amending this proposal. One of my colleagues in another parliament, of which I have the privilege to be a Member, always says ‘the one way of identifying things when you are wrong is when everybody is in agreement about it’. On this occasion I do not believe we are wrong to approach this matter in that way and I hope this Parliament will agree with me with a big majority. – Mr President, on this report the British Conservatives will abstain. Within the delegation there is deep disagreement. Some believe that what is proposed is a step in the direction of a European superstate. Some, after considerable reflection, really do not know; and some believe this is a proposal that will create an entrenched bulwark against a superstate, and so are in favour. These views are individually deeply and honestly held, as indeed are my personal and private ones. In these circumstances, trying to compel one's colleagues to vote against their views on this kind of topic, in these kind of circumstances, is not only unlikely to work, it will not change their views either. All it does is cause trouble. While the subject matter of many of the non-legislative resolutions of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is very important, Parliament's resolutions themselves are, in the world of real politics, some of the less important items we vote on; it is therefore folly, it seems to me, and shows lack of judgement, to engage in civil war about things which do not matter all that much. Hence we are approaching this and other similar topics here within the framework of a broad church, which has the overriding advantage of being sensible, which I am not sure can be said about any other course of action open to us in the circumstances. – As Mrs Wallis knows only too well I have not agreed with a number of things that she has said during the time she has been rapporteur for this important report but I would like to put on record my appreciation for the very considerable work and effort she has put into what she has done for this Parliament. As spokesman for the British Conservatives and the Legal Affairs Committee, I want to begin by endorsing the remarks made by Mrs Palacio, chairman of that committee. The process of which this debate is a part is, as has been explained already, a component of the so-called Amsterdamisation of the Brussels Convention. It is an unusual process but one in which Parliament has to give the message from its consultation that the Brussels Convention must not merely be transformed into a regulation it has to be brought up-to-date to meet the needs of the contemporary world. The Convention itself is old: it antedates my own country’s joining the European Economic Community. It goes back to an era before not only the Internet but even before the commercially available personal computer. It is therefore tragic that the Commission and the Council have been so timid in getting to grips with the reality of the modern world for we are in a world which is moving away from that of national jurisdictions into the world of networks. In the world of networks traditional jurisdiction-based disputes-resolution procedures are of no real help to consumers and traders when things go wrong. It is for this reason that the jurisdictional aspects and arguments must be squeezed out of disputes. ADRs which are a form of bona fide privatised law, agreed upon by the parties and legislators, must be the first and the main means of resolving disputes. They cannot merely be the pre-trial steps before a disappointed consumer takes refuge in his own legal system for, if they become that, myriads of SMEs will boycott the Net for business, thereby reducing their own profitability and their contribution to society and the national exchequers. It will seriously reduce Europe’s citizens’ choices, thereby reducing their quality of life and standard of living. I hear my opponents say: there is Lord Inglewood representing the forces of reaction, flying in the face of the Community’s honourable tradition of consumer protection and arguing at variance with the detailed terms of existing European Community consumer protection legislation. Taking the latter point first, I argue in the way I do because existing legislation no longer meets the consumers’ needs. After all, a later statute succeeds its predecessors and, if the form of protection the consumer is given needs overhauling, earlier legislators cannot and do not stop the draftsmen and their successor legislators. When it is time for change then it is the time for change and that time is now. The world has moved on. We have got to move on with it and nowhere is this more clearly seen than in the debate we have had about the so-called directed website. Such a thing is a contradiction in terms since the Net is a shop window at every terminal link to the network and, to argue in some contrived way, that a site can be directed at some and not others is linguistically facile, commercially nonsensical and technologically illiterate. We have an opportunity tomorrow to vote for the 21st century, its consumers, traders and citizens by voting for the committee’s report or we can look at the future and then turn our back on it and find superficial comfort in the last century by voting for the amendments. We, in my delegation and in this group, shall be voting for the 21st century’s solutions to 21st problems and supporting the committee’s report. *** – Mr President, the lawful object of the Charter of Rights is to protect the legitimate rights, expectations and aspirations of the citizen against the oppressive behaviour of government, business or other citizens; and it is, of course, right that people should be thus safeguarded in respect of the European institutions and their activities. However, having said that, the crucial matter is not the existence of a Charter but the proper safeguarding of the citizen, and the means by which the citizen achieves such protection today vary from Member State to Member State. In view of the Community’s normal legislative practice, I am somewhat surprised that it was not felt that this should be achieved by going with the grain of the established legal and administrative mechanisms of each Member State. In other words, policy should be implemented along the lines of a directive rather than a regulation. For example, I was speaking recently with some very senior judges in Germany who were clear, on the basis of the history and traditions of their country, that these matters should be contained in a justiciable charter. But my own country has a very different tradition in this respect, as our own Prime Minister has made clear, and it is not part of the United Kingdom’s tradition to safeguard the citizen in this way. We do it differently and no less effectively. I think it is very relevant that the present socialist United Kingdom government is committed to ensuring that the Charter is non-justiciable and does not extend beyond existing rights to those not currently contained in the treaties. Mr President, for those countries which have a long tradition of directly, legally binding charters, a development of the kind proposed is not dramatic. But for those which do not, it is a very radical step; and in the meantime, I will keep a very close watch on the United Kingdom and what it may say and do about all this. . British Conservative MEPs anticipate the adopted Statute, which does not meet our approval, will equally not meet the approval of the Council. In such circumstances the Council and Parliament must negotiate a Statute which meets both of their requirements. Nothing should remain outside the scope of these legitimate negotiations. . As is explained in the report, there are a few instances in which criminal sanctions are imposed via Community law. They are the exception rather than the rule, and it is most important that the Community, in responding to paragraph 10 of the report, does not acquire any general competence in criminal matters which should be left to the Member States. .  One of the great criticisms of the EU in Britain is that it appears to go beyond what was intended when competences were granted to it, both in depth of detail and in scope of application. We, in the Conservative Party, are looking into ways of ring-fencing competence which will run with the letter and spirit of the Treaties and recognise the position of the Member States at the heart of the European political process. Enumerating and entrenching the inalienable characteristics of the system which guarantee rights to individuals and define the limits of the political process, across a number of Member States which comprise a single quasi-domestic legal area, offers a fruitful avenue to explore, to try to achieve these desirable ends. The problem with the Charter of Fundamental Rights is that it is hybrid, neither a legally entrenched system of rights nor a political code of conduct which draws together legal, economic and social rights in a manner, and this leads to confusion and lack of clarity. – Mr President, I would like to begin by joining those who congratulated the rapporteur on this work. The European Union is a system based on law. It must therefore have a system of courts to enforce that law. Furthermore, if the courts cannot deal appropriately and expeditiously with the legal workload placed on them, what happens, as Madame Palacio Vallelersundi has already pointed out, is that justice delayed becomes, as we know, justice denied. The evidence of the court is that that is happening now and it points to steps which can be taken now to alleviate the problem. However, as Mr Marinho has pointed out, more is necessary, but that has to wait for the IGC, In my own country, mythology tells of the teeming hordes of faceless Brussels bureaucrats but it never mentions the number of European judges. There are less than three dozen at the apex of the European judicial order – hardly an overload given the responsibility of their tasks at the heart of the European legal system. The extent of their importance can be seen in the political implications of the delay in resolving the outstanding Anglo/French dispute over British beef which has caused such anger in my country and such frustration with the workings of the Union’s disputes resolution procedures. This has been compounded, so some who advise me believe, by the Rules of Procedure in the French courts which make it well nigh impossible for non-French nationals to proceed against the French Government. Certainly it is perceived  to be impossible. This contrasts most unfavourably with the United Kingdom courts where Spanish fishermen successfully brought an action against the United Kingdom Government in circumstances which were very comparable. What is happening in France, Mr President, appears  to be a case of discrimination against other EU nationals on grounds of nationality and as such to be in breach of the Treaties. I would therefore like to ask the Commissioner, who was kind enough to make some comments about my remarks in the previous debate, to look into this and to report back to Parliament and to me their findings. I would be grateful if the Commissioner could confirm in his final remarks that he will do this. – Mr President, I wish to begin by explaining to the House that the British Conservative delegation is going to abstain on Mr Lamassoure's report, which, while it contains some excellent parts, also contains some parts which we cannot accept. I must emphasise that I am saying this not to gainsay the quality of the rapporteur's work or to underestimate the effort he has put in. For the British, having no formal written constitution and having been a unitary country until quite recently, systematic analysis of the kind we are considering this evening is especially unfamiliar. Having said that, as part of the essential process of making Europe's political activities more clear, understandable, democratic and accountable and making Europe suitable for an enlarged Union, it is necessary that this work is done and done rigorously. The very fact that we find that we cannot support some of its conclusions does not seem to me to invalidate the underlying exercise. Europe's constitutional arrangements need improving, clarifying and tidying up. But that process must not be allowed to be the excuse for creeping Euro-centralisation. Rather, it must be used to develop a Europe built around its nation-states, taking decisions together, according to evolving systems of decision-making, which make them suitable and appropriate to a 21st-century world. . – No doubt this is the first move in the next set of proceedings in the ECJ. – Mr President, the  is an unknown legal right in the United Kingdom and we do not believe it is a beneficial addition to our law. This is because, as has already been pointed out, many artists have recently testified it does not in fact help them. Furthermore, as experience in France shows, the main beneficiaries are the heirs of dead, rich painters, not poor, living ones. At any event, why as a matter of principle should it be right to impose a levy on the sale of a second-hand picture and not to do the same to the maker of a second-hand car or the tailor of a second-hand suit? It is also unnecessary in the single European art market, which for years has worked quite satisfactorily without it, as has already been pointed out this evening. In short, there is no need for harmonisation of this sort in this area. Nevertheless, we in the United Kingdom have, with misgivings and in a spirit of compromise, accepted a formula which includes its eventual introduction in the UK. It is complicated and takes years to come into effect. Cynics might say: a bit like the Treaty of Nice. But London, the centre of the art market in Europe, will disproportionately suffer if much of the trade goes off-shore to Geneva or the United States, unilaterally exporting British jobs with it, unless an international regime is put into place to eliminate global market distortion. If the substance of the compromise is not honoured, we would rather this unnecessary directive did not reach the statute book. If it did so, it would be a great injustice, especially to those whose livelihoods depend upon the art market and, in particular, the art market in London. I can assure the House that, if my party leader William Hague wins the general election, he will match the present Prime Minister's commitment to oppose this proposal in the essential interests of our country. It goes beyond what was agreed in the common position. – Mr President, the starting point of this debate is incredibly simple. It is that the terms and conditions of Members of this House are not satisfactory, either from a Member's or from the public's point of view. Not only should MEPs receive a fair day's wage for a fair day's work, we should be taxed on the same basis as those who send us here. As a number of speakers have already said, we are not civil servants – we represent the citizens of the four corners of the European Union, here at its centre. The arrangements put in place should be appropriately drawn up and transparent, and the expenses regime which is back-to-back with them should not be disguised remuneration, and in particular travel should be reimbursed on a cost basis. Although politically, expenses and remuneration are two sides of the same coin, their legal bases are distinct. We must not be pompous, hypocritical or self-serving about this. For obvious overriding political reasons the Council and Parliament must reach a political agreement about the two together. If either steps back from this it is breaking faith with the electorate and is culpable of wrecking the process. As a Member, I am sick and tired of cheap jokes about the 'gravy train': let us recall that the basic salary we, the UK Members, receive is, so I am told, about the same as that of a decent-sized supermarket manager in a provincial town. Such jibes degrade Parliament as an institution and the European Union as a political process. Quite simply, I say, let us stop the talk and sort it out, because if we do not, we demean ourselves and degrade the process of which we are part. As far as the contents of the Rothley report are concerned, we British Conservatives have deep reservations about some of them. The only way to break this impasse is to vote for the report as a whole, to take the process a step forward. We shall continue to work for a final outcome which will meet with our stated policy requirements. The immediate priority is to stop talking incessantly about the Statute and take some steps to do something about creating it. . The state of permanent constitutional upheaval which is a characteristic of the contemporary EU is a major shortcoming in our constitutional arrangements. With the Treaty of Nice, coming so soon after the Treaty of Amsterdam and to be followed by another IGC in 2004 we live in an Age of Permanent Revolution. There are signs that this successor IGC may achieve a degree of constitutional settlement which is much to be welcomed and to reach it, it is necessary to pass through the Treaty of Nice despite its self-evident shortcomings. .I abstained because I am chairman of the Reviewing Committee on the Export of Works of Art in the UK. – Mr President, we, the British Conservative MEPs, are not happy with this proposal. We believe it is not necessary for the completion of the single market. In practice we do not believe it will help financially those who need it most. Indeed, there is some evidence it may actually make them worse off, as my colleague Mr Karas pointed out. It is going to drive a significant part of the contemporary art market out of the EU to Geneva and New York, and that will cost jobs in the trade itself and in supporting industries. Those jobs are our jobs – Europe's jobs – and our businesses. On balance, we believe it will damage rather than enhance Europe's economy and the position of its working artists. Moreover, it will make a global agreement on  less rather than more likely because there is no incentive for the beneficiaries of this agreement – New York and Geneva – to strike a deal with the European Union. In short, we believe it is an ill-conceived project which is against the best interests of Europe in general and the single market in particular. – Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Lechner on his report and on the way in which he introduced it to this House. The point that he made very clearly is one which I believe to be very important – that this piece of legislation is one of a larger series of pieces of legislation which are going to regulate electronic commerce. That clearly is going to be very significant, not only for Europe, but for business round the whole world. In this context I should like to use my time to flag up one particular concern I have about the possible impact of the proposed – if I can use the horrid word – “Amsterdamised” versions of the Brussels and Rome Treaties relating to the operation of this part of the single market. As I understand the position, they may pose a serious threat to the market inasmuch as a number of the provisions look as if they will cut across the country of origin principle which, as the House knows, is the basis on which the single market is founded. If the country of origin principle is not honoured in the construction of the single market then I am concerned that it will not work to the benefit of Europe’s citizens. As we all know, electronic commerce is going to become ever more important to the economic and social wellbeing of the citizens of the European Union. If it turns out that the legal framework for that means of doing business is flawed, it is then going to jeopardise the wellbeing of all Europe’s citizens. And if, as I believe, it is the case that the erosion of the country of origin principle threatens fundamentally the single market in electronic services in Europe – and this, in turn, has a significant read-across to the operation of electronic commerce around the globe – that would be very sad and damaging for Europe’s citizens. It is something that we, as representatives of those citizens, should strive our utmost to ensure does not happen. Mr President, the Parmalat scandal comprises a series of quite distinct crises. Firstly, there has been fraud of gargantuan proportions; secondly, there is a systemic crisis in the market place, and, thirdly, there is a very considerable social disaster in Italy, where most of those affected are living. I do not want to make any more remarks about either the fraud or the problems there may be in Italy. I would prefer to talk about its effect on the markets. We sometimes forget that one of the lessons of the twentieth century was the clear emergence of the evidence to support the view that markets are the best driver of prosperity and the best creator of jobs that we have seen in the world. It is therefore clear that the proper working of markets is essential to our collective future wellbeing. Those markets must be arranged so that criminality is difficult. However, just as it is impossible to organise the City of Strasbourg to make it impossible to be mugged, equally, it is impossible to organise the financial markets to ensure that there is no outside possibility of criminal fraud taking place. We should recognise that. Secondly, it is important that investors have confidence in the market. The claims and evidence that companies produce about themselves should be transparent, and the rules about the way in which that information is put together should be unimpugnable. I welcome Commissioner Bolkestein's remarks on his review of auditing and auditing standards. Equally, the governance of companies in the marketplace should be beyond reproach in terms of the way in which decisions are made. Again, I welcome the Commissioner's remarks in his statement. Furthermore, the claims that are made in the market and the advice that is given to possible participants in it must be such that there is no suggestion of impropriety. I must ask – and perhaps I say this as someone who is not standing in the forthcoming elections – can the same be said about the claims that the political parties are going to make in the forthcoming contest? We must not forget either that even in the case of apparent large-scale losses by banks, it may well be that in a world where private provision of pensions is going to become increasingly the norm, it is the small people who get hurt by these disasters. It is the confidence of the small investor – either directly or through pension funds – which is so important for the workings of twenty-first century capitalism. Many speakers have mentioned regulation. Regulation is the answer, but not over-regulation. That must be the lesson that we draw from this crisis. – Mr President, I, like other colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, would like to congratulate our ex-chairman Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, on all her work on this dossier. It has been a real labour of Hercules but, despite that, I fear she has not, in the view of the British Conservatives, been able satisfactorily to resolve the issues that have been so vigorously debated in the Legal Affairs Committee. However, I should emphasise that I do not think that is any reflection on her. Rather it seems to me that, as has already been mentioned by a number of other speakers, there has been a series of real conundrums – serious issues – at the heart of this proposal. In particular, it indicates the more or less complete impossibility of reconciling our language policy with the needs of those who use and work with patents. I suspect that in microcosm this may be one of a much larger series of problems that we shall be experiencing in the Union in the not-too-distant future. In my view, there is no point in having a Community patent, which could be a very useful development in intellectual property law, if those who use and work with patents find it no help. I am told by industry that the Commission's proposals could be helpful but what Parliament is proposing will not be. Since this is not a codecision matter, the best thing Parliament can do is to give an opinion as required and then leave matters to the Council to see if it can succeed where we have failed. I am the first to confess that I do not think this is a very glorious suggestion but it is a pragmatic one. I believe it is the correct course of action in the circumstance in which we now find ourselves. Finally, just like my colleague Mr Lehne, I have another meeting and I hope you will bestow your blessing on my leaving as you did on his. – Mr President, we welcome this report so deftly piloted through Parliament by Mrs Wallis because, in the brave new world of e-commerce, there is going to be the same share of crooks and mountebanks as in the non-digital environment. For this reason consumer protection matters at least as much. It comes in two forms. First, it provides legal protection, and, secondly, it provides a means of enforcing that protection. Clearly, especially as regards small claims across international borders – in other words, between different legal systems – conventional court systems will be of limited real help, as Mrs Wallis has just pointed out. Hence we welcome this initiative to create a user-friendly, extra-judicial network across Europe. Indeed we believe it should go beyond the physical limits of the Union since the Net is no respecter of national boundaries. As is so often the case, the devil lies in the detail. We look forward to seeing that detail and wish its progress well. Mr President, like all the other speakers so far, I must join the chorus and say that I believe this is a reasonable compromise. To use an English cricketing metaphor, it is important to deal with these kinds of issues in a pragmatic way and to 'take it in singles', to move one step at a time in order to try to ensure that the way in which we deal with the kind of pollution problems that this directive is supposed to deal with actually works. Clearly it is important to make sure that pollution is not generated in the first place. I am not sure how much that has to do with the apportionment of the way in which liability arises if pollution does occur. If it occurs then we need to see how it is dealt with. As other speakers have said, the polluter-pays principle must be the right one. On the other hand, if one defines the polluter-pays principle, it is important that one does not just cast about to find some wretched victim who may have had some kind of association with what happened and heap all the liability on to him. Perhaps that is why we disagree with some of the other speakers in this debate. I can envisage circumstances where it is right and just that the government has a role, where pollution has taken place, and where it may not be appropriate to put the blame or impose the responsibility for what occurs on some other party. Lastly, it is important in the context of the politics of this kind of debate not to have a knee-jerk reaction to any particular pollution incident in the recent past. We often hear mention of the . Of course that was a disaster, but when we are thinking about general rules against general problems, we must not be too specific. – Mr President, as colleagues know, today across Europe there is popular discontent with regard to Europe's apparent disconnection from ordinary life. The European political process is widely seen as an elite preoccupation of little or no relevance to many outside the political classes. Quite rightly concern about this crosses national boundaries and the ideological divide. It is a wish to try to remedy this discontent that lies behind Mr Napolitano's report, which we in the PPE-DE Group support. There have been a number of responses to this unhappy and unacceptable state of affairs, one of which included the suggestion of establishing a second European parliamentary chamber comprising national parliamentarians. The conclusions of this report, as the rapporteur has already mentioned, echo a recently published report from the House of Lords in my own country. They recognise the important role of national parliaments, but reject the argument for a further second chamber. Rather than further encumbering the European political process, this report recognises that it is for the European Parliament in its sphere, and national parliaments in theirs, in accordance with their own national traditions, to scrutinise their own governments' conduct of European business and activities in the Council of Ministers. Consensus has rightly emerged that an important component of the way to reconnect Europe with national political life, and through that with European citizens, is through an alliance between the European Parliament and national parliaments and national politics, which at present seem to give insufficient weight to thorough and comprehensive scrutiny of European matters. In this report Mr Napolitano, as befits the distinguished chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and rapporteur, has most skilfully woven together an approach to improving relations between the European Parliament and national parliaments and to strengthening cooperation between them. The pedantic constitutional purist from any one Member State might cavil at some of the detail, but this report provides a template for action which cannot be carried out by any single parliament. Changes must take place in a wider framework of change and democratic openness on all sides. If political and democratic openness and acceptability matter – and no political group in this House believes in them more than we in the PPE-DE Group do – the Napolitano report represents an important starting point. But we must not complacently rest on our laurels now. This report represents words; we must now see action. Change, in line with the thrust of the report's conclusions and catalysed by the Laeken Convention as the rapporteur himself pointed out, is needed to start to remedy these democratic deficiencies in the European political system which, if left unattended, could be so damaging. The agenda of the IGC has now been set by the Member States. We now know its general scope, and it is clear that much of the content of this resolution, regardless of its merit or lack of it, has nothing to do with it. While Parliament is fully entitled to be aspirational, it is a mistake for us not to have focused our input into what the IGC is actually going to discuss and decide. I fear that not doing this will damage Parliament's reputation and standing, and will not be as helpful to the IGC as it could be. – Mr President, I must begin by explaining that I have no association at all with Edinburgh University, but I think that it is important to stress their bona fides. It is, after all, one of my own country’s most distinguished universities. When they sought and obtained this patent, which they did for entirely lawful purposes, they did so in good faith. They have no interest in cloning humans: rather what they are interested in is being able to work on human tissue to help find remedies for, for example, Alzheimer’s Disease and leukaemia and what they are doing breaks no law in the United Kingdom. As has been explained, the patent in question was examined prior to the coming into effect of the 1998 directive in September 1999, but it was issued after that date and, as has been said, a mistake was made in the form in which it was granted. I have seen no evidence at all at this stage of anything more than error on the part of the Patent Office. Of course, I would like to add that that is something which is of serious concern. But until there is something more, I think it appropriate that the wilder claims and suggestions should be ignored. My understanding is that the patent error can be corrected either by the patent owner applying to correct the document or by a third party filing an opposition which I understand has already been done. I have been told by the university’s advisors that it will not resist so long as the disclaimer which may be added to the patent continues to allow them to carry out their lawful work on human tissue. In other words, what we are talking about here is an amendment to cut out the offending elements of the patent, thereby rendering it lawful, and not its revocation in its entirety. I believe that the work which is being carried out in Edinburgh is not permitted by national law in some other Member States. But what this Parliament and the Community institutions and international bodies should not do is attempt to legislate for national parliaments in areas which are national competences, and in my view any attempt to do so should be resisted strongly as a matter of overriding constitutional principle. – Mr President, while I am going to be speaking about the Duff report, I would like to congratulate both Mr Duff and Professor MacCormick for the very substantial amount of work they have put into this. We in the PPE-DE Group concur with Mr Duff's approach and the analysis contained in the report's explanatory statement. As is clear, not only from the debate earlier this evening, but also from the discussion in this House and in its committees over the last weeks and months, the whole issue of immunities is arcane, incoherent and muddled. In Mr Duff's explanatory statement, it is rightly stated, although perhaps in not quite these words, that MEPs are not merely national MPs who happen to go abroad. In fact, MEPs are now something distinct from national MPs who might happen to go abroad. They are people who are similar but, nevertheless, qualitatively different. That has significant implications for the whole question of immunities and it explains why we are in the present muddle. He is absolutely right in the report to point out, as he has done in his remarks this evening, that in order to tidy this up and create something sensible and understandable to Europe's citizens, it is necessary for changes to come both from the forthcoming Convention and from recommendations to the IGC that might be accepted. In addition, provisions with regard to this ought to be contained in the forthcoming Member's Statute. If we do that, we may be able to introduce a degree of sense and coherence into our Rules which is currently missing and will remain missing to our detriment if we do not manage to do it. All over Europe the funding of political parties is tainted by sleaze which is bad for democratic politics. For that reason I believe that European funding for European-wide political activity, be it for or against the European Union, should be considered seriously, so long as that activity remains within the accepted parameters of Western values. Nonetheless I have serious reservations about some of the detailed proposals in the Report, as well as considering it not to have a proper legal base. .– In the digital age it is important that copyright and intellectual property problems do not prevent broadcasters using their archives. In the UK we do not have this problem, but understand it may be a difficulty elsewhere. Based on UK experience we see no reason why that need be so, which is why the British Conservatives are now voting against Amendment No 11. If, however, this matter cannot satisfactorily be dealt with without legislation, we believe it should be reviewed as part of the review of the directive in 18 months time. Mr President, as colleagues have already commented this evening, these are very important reports because lawmaking is arguably the most important part of government and it defines, in many ways, the fundamental character of any system of governance. I have been in and out of this Parliament now for almost 15 years, and throughout that period there have been reports about the subject matter that we are discussing this evening. What I am not sure about is whether, over that period, legislation has improved or worsened. But I am sure that there is much more political interest in, and debate about, this subject now than there was in my earlier days. That, I am sure, is something of a move in the right direction. Nevertheless, the proof of the pudding is in the eating - as we say in Britain. It is not what the Commission, or the Council, or the Parliament  that matters: it is what we  that counts. What, therefore, are the crucial points? The first is, of course, democracy. All procedures for government, whether administration or legislation, must be underpinned by the ballot box. Those who take decisions in these areas must be answerable and accountable for what they do. Finally, the systems in which they work must be transparent. Secondly, all this must take place in the framework of a rule of law. Where abuse occurs, there must be available legal redress administered by an independent judiciary. This can take place in a whole variety of areas: whether there is a failure to transpose, or whether something takes place as a result of improper procedures. To pick up on a point that Mr Medina Ortega made, the areas where self-regulation is in place must in turn operate under the rule of law. Thirdly, there is that frequently banded-about word ‘subsidiarity’. We should not be doing at European level what should in fact be done at a national level, however exactly you define that. Fourthly there is proportionality. Any legislation that we draw up must be proportionate to the abuse or the mischief which it is intended to address. In this context, while I commend the proposals of the Mandelkern Report, we must be careful that the impact assessments do not themselves turn into an additional bureaucratic hurdle in the legislative process. Finally, of course, there is a need for clarity. All I can say is, as an Englishman, that an awful lot of the English that is produced in Brussels is not recognised as such by my fellow countrymen. We should lead by example. Do we actually improve legislation as it passes through this House? I think the truthful answer is that ‘sometimes we do’, when in fact the answer should be ‘always’. We should begin by putting our own house in order. – Mr President, I should like to start by acknowledging the work which Mr Lehne has put into this report, even though I have not always agreed with him. When publicly listed companies are subject to possible takeovers they should be able to take defensive measures, but when management acts it must behave even-handedly towards all shareholders in any one class. That must be included in the rules. If that does not happen, the integrity of the market is eroded. That leads to an unwillingness of capital to invest and thus under-capitalisation, and hence under-performance of Europe's economy. In turn, pension funds will not be able to secure proper retirement provision for their members and the currency will weaken. This conciliation has seen 15 new provisions introduced into the common position, so it cannot be maintained seriously that Parliament's rights have been trampled on. To claim that could undermine our credibility in the future when we may have real cause for concern. The principle of having a takeover directive has been supported at first and second readings and now, after 12 years, we have a final agreed text. In this Parliament we frequently complain that we are unfairly perceived as immature and irresponsible, and hence disregarded. Let us now prove these critics wrong and vote for the conciliation. It is one which most commentators and all but one European country, Germany – a country which I normally hold in esteem but which welched on a unanimously agreed position of the Council – support. This, as Mr MacCormick very lucidly pointed out, is the first step towards creating a single market in corporate ownership. It is an integral component of the single market and is in the interests of all Europe's citizens. – Mr President, I ought to declare that I am a director of the CN Group. My friend Mr Lehne has given the position of the EPP Group. I am going to give the position of the British Conservative delegation and a number of other Members. However, it is not necessarily a full and accurate description of the EPP Group's position, which he has given. When a public company is listed, the management and owners are telling the world that investors are free to buy and sell stock in it without the shadow of management or the state rigging the market against them. The European single market is a pan-European market place but within which the market in shares must be treated like other markets so that national boundaries, even if they delineate different jurisdictions, do not interfere with the essential equivalence of the rules across the market place. Within the single market investors, be they private, corporate or pension funds, should be able to exercise the rights of ownership to the benefit of the companies in which they invest and for those investors in them. In my country, we have real reservations about the common position, but in the spirit of good will have been prepared to accept it. Unfortunately, we believe that some of the proposed amendments do not improve it. On the contrary, some will fatally damage the project of a single pan-European take-over regime. To be effective, useful and in the public interest, such a directive must: first, avoid direct involvement of the courts, but rather have a regulator with wide powers of discretion under the rule of law; secondly, clarify and have workable rules on jurisdiction; thirdly, clarify definitions of equitable price and set proper thresholds; fourthly, ensure management cannot improperly frustrate shareholders taking their legitimate decisions about the future of the company in which they own a stake. If we fail to get this directive right, it will tell the world that Europe will not face the realities of the global market. That will not mean that it will not have to do so in due course; rather it will merely mean that adjustment will be more prolonged and painful and the victims will be European jobs and European prosperity. – Mr President, as some colleagues may know, I live in Cumbria at the heart of last year's foot and mouth outbreak. I and many of my friends, neighbours and constituents lost our animals. For us the pyres were not on the television screen, they were over the garden fence. I would like to make one thing absolutely clear: the vast majority of those affected were good farmers whose husbandry bears no relationship to that of the few described by Mr Adam. Because of my own involvement I have, quite rightly, not played any direct part in the inquiry's proceedings, but it seems clear to me that its findings make a valuable contribution to drawing the right lessons from the 2001 outbreak. I would merely like to make four comments. Firstly, what occurred in Cumbria, in the United Kingdom – and I have said exactly the same in debates in the UK Parliament and House of Lords – was exacerbated by mistakes made by the United Kingdom Government's handling of the outbreak. Secondly, while those whose physical assets were destroyed received compensation, those whose livelihoods were damaged to a similar extent by administrative measures introduced to fight the disease received nothing. This loss, which flowed directly from what the government was doing and was entirely foreseeable, was equally real. Their contribution to the fight against the disease was equally valid. In my view, an injustice has been done to them. Thirdly, the evidence now emerging in Cumbria suggests that the public health consequences of the outbreak are much wider-ranging and much longer-lasting than was supposed at the time. I would like to end with an appeal beyond this House to the Commission and the governments of the Member States: learn the lessons of 2001. Do not let other people go through what we did last year. Mr President, I should explain that I am the non-executive chairman of a medium-sized regional media group in the United Kingdom. I will start by briefly stating what I think corporate governance will not do. It will not necessarily make companies perform better or more profitably, and it will not necessarily cut out criminal or unethical behaviour, but it will set down a series of criteria for corporate behaviour that are likely to enhance transparency, accountability and systems of business conduct, which in turn give the wider world, shareholders, stakeholders and others an idea of what is going on. That is politically essential for 20th century European capitalism, set in a social market economy. It is interesting how company law in the various Member States has created companies that differ qualitatively from one other. European company law can either legislate to harmonise this, or do nothing and let the inevitable process of convergence be driven by the market, providing no particular model is discriminated against. I would add that I am conscious of some of the waspish remarks made about what happens in my country. Against this background, the principle of 'comply or explain' is the right point to start from. Finally, we must not forget that in the global marketplace currently being created by the World Trade Organization, uncompetitiveness is a certain precursor of economic failure. If we fail to grasp this essential point we shall destroy ourselves, disinherit our children and betray Europe and our own countries. – Mr President, in my own country, the United Kingdom, we had a long political debate over the value of resale price maintenance applied to books. That debate ended with the abolition of the book price-fixing agreement. There is no evidence from the United Kingdom of less choice, higher prices or of any reduction in specialist bookshops. Indeed, the number of books sold and the number of publishing houses producing them appears to be increasing. This is surely a good thing. At least it seems so to me since I think that books exist to be read, or certainly that was the conclusion I reached when I studied English literature at university. Certainly, under the principles of subsidiarity, if a Member State wishes to impose resale price maintenance on books, so be it. Moreover, if two or more Member States wish to create an internal area of joint resale price maintenance in respect of books, good luck to them. But this has to be compatible with the single market. Any such statutory system must have no effect as regards books sold outside the limits of the Member States' jurisdiction. Nor should it affect books brought in or brought back into it, an increasingly widespread and popular means of book-selling developing in conjunction with e-commerce, which is entirely in accordance with the principles of the single market, and provides enormous opportunities for small niche businesses. Any suggestion that this should take place is illiberal. It is contrary to the principles of the single market and, in my view, is de facto a form of censorship, and artificially rationing the supply of books in favour of the better-off. Furthermore, I believe that it prejudices a proper and legitimate aspect of intra-European trade, threatening to reduce the movement of literature across Europe to the level of pornography sent through the post, so I am reliably informed, in unmarked brown manilla envelopes, and in the free world reducing the legitimate trade in books to the level of smuggling in and out of eastern Europe of so-called subversive literature. I, for one at least, am not in favour of that because I believe it is old-fashioned, illiberal, reactionary and, in its longer-term effect, philistine. – Mr President, as Mr Pirker pointed out I had the honour to lead the European Parliament's delegation to the ASEP II meeting in the Philippines last week. This event, which was efficiently and successfully organised under the auspices of the Philippine Senate, concluded, as a number of colleagues have said, by issuing an agreed communiqué and statements which dealt with human rights, with special reference to women and children, terrorism and the environment. But at least as importantly, it provided some parliamentary input into the ASEM process, which culminates later in the year with the Copenhagen meeting. In an increasingly interdependent world, where modern economics propelled by science, technology and improved transport systems breaks down the significance of national boundaries and with them the practical relevance of ringfenced national jurisdiction, the democratic political process must not get left behind. The evolution of governmental, ministerial and Heads of Government meetings that take decisions, which either de facto or de jure legislate or commit their component participants to legislate, should have a proper parliamentary angle and aspect. In my view this is at least as important as many of the conclusions reached by parliamentarians' meetings such as ASEP II. They are the first step towards finding collective parliamentary institutions to work with collective governmental and administrative developments such as ASEM. I very much hope that the decisions reached by ASEP II in Manila, and the decision of this Parliament in voting for the Maaten report, will endorse the call for another meeting of ASEP to be held to complement the proposed 2004 ASEM meeting in Hanoi. I also hope that this parliamentarians' meeting will be held in Europe, although not necessarily here in the European Parliament in Strasbourg, the location of the first ASEP meeting in 1996. Mr President, I imagine that the vast majority of Members of this House have not even noticed the Inglewood report sitting so closely in the shadow of the two Corbett reports as it does. I must begin by congratulating Mr Corbett on the very comprehensive work that he has carried out in this wide-ranging review of the Rules. The Inglewood report, like the second Corbett report, was prepared around two years ago because of initial internal inconsistencies in the Rules of this House, as then drafted, in respect of the justification of amendments. At that time it was thought it would be brought forward quite quickly, and then could be amended if necessary, as part of the more wide-ranging debate about the Rules we are currently engaged in. It did not happen. Indeed, it disappeared over the horizon more or less completely. I would just like to record my gratitude to the Fisheries Committee, which is not usually associated with these matters, for having, as far as I know, been the only other people involved in this Parliament, other than myself, and possibly Mr Corbett, who had appreciated it had not gone forward. Nevertheless, what was originally intended to be a precursor to the general revision of the Rules is now seen as something running in parallel with them and, in fact, is substantively part of the overall package. In simple terms, it is proposed that the question of whether or not amendments should be justified individually, calls for a single answer regardless of the context in which they are tabled. Secondly, it is suggested that a strict obligation to justify every amendment in this House does not really make sense. It is recognised that an individual justification can be helpful in the context of legislative procedures. Finally, in the interests of clarity and legal certainty, and also to avoid certain technical problems, the individual justifications of amendments should remain the responsibility of their authors and, consequently, should not be put to the vote. I would like to commend my report to the House. – Mr President, I agree with all the speakers so far. It is unacceptable that when we are making such enormous scientific advances we still accept the infliction of pain on small animals in order to find out whether a new face cream is safe. I would like to express my strong support for the report. The rapporteur has struck the right compromise: the ban would not be immediate but could come into force in five years, and that means that, in effect, we have given the companies concerned at least 15 years' notice since we first started discussing this about ten years ago. I also support the idea that we should demonstrate our own responsibility – a concept which is foreign to the Greens – by introducing a marketing ban as tests are developed where at present there are no alternatives available, even though we then have to set a deadline for these tests, perhaps ten years ahead. Parliament's report will give the search for alternatives a new urgency. I have two questions to the Commission and I hope that when Mr Liikanen answers he will address himself specifically to my points on Amendments Nos 21 and 28. Mr Nisticò and Mr Nobilia raised this earlier on. I am very concerned that, on the labelling of fragrances, aromas and essential oils, Amendments Nos 21 and 28 involve the introduction of unnecessary requirements which may have a very unfortunate effect on the composition of products, their continued availability and indeed the viability of some of the smaller firms that make them. The rapporteur proposes a very comprehensive system of labelling when perfumes and aromas are present in products, even in tiny amounts. In fact, although this is designed to protect the few consumers who have allergies to certain fragrances, the proposal is unlikely to provide a significant public health benefit. There may be no safe fragrance for some allergic individuals. The best they can do, as they well know, is to steer clear of products with fragrances in them altogether. The rapporteur is reacting to representations by the European Consumer Bureau, which says it is putting the case for allergy sufferers and clearly sees the issue as part of its war on chemicals. I have to say that I have received no representations from allergy sufferers on this point. The European Flavour and Fragrance Association points out that the amendments will saddle consumers with products carrying references to up to 50 ingredients in 11 languages. This is stupid and unnecessary. Furthermore, there is a danger that some essential oils would be removed from formulations, thus damaging the economic interests of some countries, including some very poor countries. These amendments are a bad and unnecessary deal for consumers and the industry. I hope that the rapporteur will consider withdrawing them and that the Commission and the Council will reject them. – Mr President, on a point of order, I wanted to announce, before Mrs Emilia Franziska Müller gets started, that the fact that the screen showing the list of names of the speakers has gone wrong may perhaps explain why people might not come to the debate. Also, we are only getting the German interpretation in our offices. This is a great help to me because I am doing a course at the Goethe Institute, but other people may find it a little difficult. – Well that did not hurt, did it? I have been waiting for that reply since 2 February and I simply cannot understand why it has taken the Commission so long to come up with that negative. I accept the negative, but the fact of the matter is that I am a Member of the European Parliament. I have been waiting five months for that reply. Why? – Mr President, I fully support the idea behind this directive but there are certain tests to which we should submit the proposal and our amendments. Firstly, would existing successful arrangements for dealing with electronic waste be allowed to continue? I believe there is a danger that they would not. Parliament's amendments emphasise individual producer responsibility so that none can escape the net of the directive, but this means changing existing collective responsibility systems. The rapporteur has dealt with this by allowing for such collective responsibility agreements to continue for 10 years after the entry into force of the directive. That will create two systems in one EU and lead to distortions of competition. I look forward, with some trepidation, to the problems which we will encounter at conciliation on that one. Secondly, are we legislating with open eyes about the cost of what is proposed? No, we are not. The cost impact assessment in the original proposal is inevitably inadequate. The British Government has done a cost-impact assessment, learning from the fridges debacle. It has estimated a possible annual implementation cost for this directive at EUR 500 million, with a maximum save in landfill costs of approximately EUR 15 million a year. Do we have similar estimates from other countries? No, we do not. Will they legislate without counting the cost? Yes, in all probability they will. Thirdly, should we consider the interests of small businesses? Clearly the rapporteur thinks not because he has deleted in Amendment No 15 the possibility of giving micro-companies five years' grace to comply with the directive and take advantage of the technical changes that bigger companies may pioneer. I very much regret this and will not support that amendment. Fourthly, does what we are doing help responsible companies? Not yet. As it stands, the directive creates the possibility that some companies may end up paying for free-riders on the system. We look forward to hearing the Commissioner's reply on Amendment No 92. Fifthly, are we being fair to local authorities? No, the amendments ignore them. Sixthly, is it wise to increase the recycling targets? No. It is not done on the basis of any assessment of cost or practicability. Parliament habitually increases targets – any targets. It is a very bad trade union habit and one that we should get away from. – My understanding from the interpretation was that the incineration of dead animals is not covered by this directive under the terms of Article 2(2). I am looking at Article 2(2) and I cannot see that exclusion set out there. It talks about vegetable waste and vegetable waste does not cover dead animals. However, I will get clarification from the Commissioner personally. – Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur as well and to ask how far we can trust the Council. It is nothing personal. This is one of the very few proposals I can recall which has come with a price tag attached. It is true that it is printed on page 112 of the original proposals. It does not appear on the Internet version any longer, but it was there on the version that was originally submitted to Parliament. This shows us the actual cost of implementing the proposed directive on national emission ceilings. It was news to the Belgian members of my committee that this proposal would cost them EUR 1 000 million a year. We showed it to the Belgian members and they did not like the look of that at all. Can the Commissioner state whether the cost of what is being proposed has been discussed in the Council and what, for example, the Belgians have said about it? What about the French, for whom this measure will cost an additional EUR 916 million a year? What about the Greeks? According to the Commission's estimate, this will cost them an additional EUR 338 million a year. So how far are they actually willing to pay the cost? Mrs Müller has addressed this problem. In her Amendments Nos 1 and 6 she rejects the word "broadly" and says that the Member States must actually agree to remain "exactly" within the emission ceilings. If Parliament accepts that, we have an even greater right to ask how far the Member States will actually agree to abide by these proposals. When the Commissioner comes to reply, could she perhaps say something on Amendment No 8? Does subsidiarity apply here or not? If it does not apply, then presumably we have to await proposals from the European Commission. If so, since the instruments cannot be taxes, which would not be agreed, what will they be? – Madam President, we need to establish the facts in this case. We have received certain assurances from Mr Solana but we know, and our Italian colleagues in particular will remind us of this, that it will be difficult for those whose sons have died of leukaemia to accept that assurance unreservedly. These days we cannot easily accept death when better health and prosperity seem to have brought us so near to immortality. We now need to reinforce Mr Solana's assurance with repeated testing offered as widely as possible and with the maximum openness from the American authorities. I have been asked, particularly by my colleague Lord Inglewood, who represents the area of Cumbria where test-firing of these weapons has taken place, to insist that the question as to the possible effect upon the civilian population should be taken into account when this testing is carried out. If he is going to reply to this debate, Mr Solana might like to address that point. There were a large number of British soldiers in the Balkan War and, of course in the Gulf, and as a British Conservative I will say this: Of course, we are concerned about the possible impact of the use of depleted uranium, but against the background of Mr Solana's statement, we do not believe that NATO should adopt a moratorium on the use of such weapons. We have to fight terrible wars against terrible people. Such a moratorium could place our forces at a potential disadvantage and thereby potentially endanger more lives than the NATO forces. As Mrs Wallström has said: The real and immediate danger in the Balkans comes from general environmental degradation following years of neglect, corruption and war. This is what the European Union needs to address while we monitor very carefully the results of medical testing. In conclusion let me say that Mr Wurtz's contribution was very revealing of the constant agenda of the left which aims to separate the European Union from the United States and would result in depriving Europe of any real influence in the world. .–Both the White Paper from the Commission and the report drawn up by Mrs Schorling are flawed, the latter fundamentally. The report is based on the general assumption that there are a large number of chemicals that pose a threat to both human health and the environment, and ignores the positive health and environmental benefits to society arising form many man-made chemicals. Paragraph 16 of the report seeks to extend the REACH system to cover chemicals manufactured in volumes of under one tonne per year; this will lead to a possible twenty-fold increase in the number of chemicals requiring authorisation, and an impossible workload for those given that task. The scope should be limited to those chemicals produced in volumes over one tonne, as set out in the White Paper. Paragraph 38, which sets out which substance shall be classified as being of very high concern, is too broad for any authorisation system to be workable. The definition should be restricted to CMR (categories 1 and 2), and POP substances, as defined in the Stockholm Convention. The provisions of the report will lead to an unacceptable increase in the amount of tests carried out on animals. A report by the Institute of Environmental Health in the United Kingdom, estimated that 12.8 million animals will be needed in the testing of 30,000 chemicals. These figures have been echoed by many European animal welfare groups. The rapporteur recognises this problem, but places too much faith in the availability and acceptability of non-animal tests. Furthermore, to gather "base-set" level of information simply for chemicals manufactured in volumes over one tonne per year will take approximately 36 years alone, according to the IEH report. The timescale set out in the report (2008) is thus completely unrealistic. The European chemicals industry has been consulted far too late, and its attempts at self-regulation (e.g. Product Stewardship, the Long Range Research Initiative and "Confidence in Chemicals") have been completely ignored by the rapporteur in this report. Since the proposals in the report look likely to increase the administrative burden on the industry (particularly SMEs), as well as dent its competitiveness on a global scale, this is a serious oversight. – Mr President, I simply wanted to say that if Mrs Lienemann was so worried it is a pity she did not take part in the debate and make her points to the Commissioner during the debate. – I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council for confirmation that information on which country voted in which way is not at the moment given when the Council issues its press releases at the end of each Council meeting. Would the Finnish Presidency not agree that there are still a number of Council meetings to be held before the end of its Presidency and that it could use them as a very useful precedent for establishing its credentials in terms of openness – which at the moment, I am afraid, do not exist – by making sure at the very least that when press releases are published at the end of Council meetings, those press releases list exactly how each country voted on each issue on which there was a vote? – Mr President, I look forward with great interest to the Commissioner’s reply to this debate. The first question one wants to ask is: is  accurate this morning in forecasting that the Commissioner is about to answer our questions by saying that only part of the noise regulation will come into force, the part relating to the European Union, on 4 May. We believe that what the Commissioner is going to say is that the part relating to third countries, which should come into force from 2002, will not come into force and will in fact be suspended. The Environment Committee is the committee responsible within the European Parliament for the original regulation on aircraft noise and we have watched with some dismay the reluctance of the United States to accept that the European Union is within its rights to insist on bringing the regulation into force by the due date. The background to this is from our point of view continued prevarication on the part of the United States’ administration whose attitude has, in the past, given us insufficient guarantees that they are willing to negotiate seriously through ICAO to find a way out of our difficulties. The Environment Committee insists that we have every right, given the proximity of very many European airports to centres of population, to try to get lower noise levels from planes landing in Europe, no matter where they come from and who operates them. Europeans should surely be able to legislate as they wish to protect the population of Europe, and give them the highest standards possible of noise protection. To put it at its crudest, how will we explain the situation to the people of Europe if, after 2002, they still hear noisy old planes from third countries, fitted with the hushkits we judge inadequate, clattering round our skies? This is, of course, a difficult issue to discuss sensibly in a United States election year. We can understand that American politicians have little room for manoeuvre. I think, however, that the Commissioner may be about to announce to us that light is dawning and that we can see a way forward that will enable both sides to be satisfied and to allow sensible negotiations to continue for a global solution. The first compromise put forward a little time ago seemed to many in the Parliament to be much too shaky. In effect the European Union would have suspended the whole regulation, and then the United States would have suspended its complaint to ICAO and negotiations would have gone forward. Or would they? The danger, it seemed to us, was that the European Union would have been left with absolutely nothing. We look forward to what the Commissioner has to say, and I have to underline that it is very important that she should satisfy the Environment Committee and the Parliament, not least because if she is asking us to suspend the application of any part of the regulation, it will have to come through this Parliament by codecision. Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his remarks and I think we can all join him in hoping that what he has outlined will be successful. I would like to make three points. First, in relation to the European Union's own services, one imagines that those operating on our behalf in south-east Asia are mainly from the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin: our team of European Union health and food inspectors. Could the Commissioner tell the House how many people are involved in this work? He briefly mentioned that. One of the things that worries the MEPs who have visited the Food and Veterinary Office is that it is very understaffed. In fact, I believe there are only 90 inspectors for the entire world. What worries me is that, if this pandemic in Asia is tying up a lot of the efforts of such inspectors, where is the work not being done? One of the things we were talking about in the Committee recently was the importation of chicken meat from Brazil because of the danger that this was impregnated with nitrofurans. Now if we are looking at south-east Asia, can the Commissioner reassure me that somebody is still looking at what is happening in Brazil? My second point is about the human health dimension, because although this obviously has an animal health issue at its starting point, the human health dimension is very important. Is Mr Byrne satisfied that the European Union already has the capacity to monitor effectively any signs that an animal epidemic, or a major human pandemic, has started to occur here, given the likelihood of concealment? We have come across the element of concealment already in the countries where this has arisen. There is a temptation, I am sure, for concealment to happen elsewhere in the world also. Will he give some thought to setting up a rapid response team dedicated to planning for the worst in the European Union? He has outlined something of this, but not perhaps talked about that precise team. The next report we are debating is very relevant – Mr Bowis' report on the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Unfortunately, that centre has not yet been set up. Would it be possible for an advance guard of the new Centre for Disease Prevention and Control to set up a planning team with which the European Parliament can have a dialogue? Thirdly, Mr Byrne is also responsible for food safety at home and for legislation regarding food labelling. Given that we do not know exactly what the route of transmission is – if there is a route to humans – and that consumers are wary of food of unknown origin at such a time, would the Commission consider providing consumers with extra information via the labelling of the country of origin of the poultry meat component of composite foods which account for a very large section of the European Union market? I note that Mr Byrne said that the Commission had banned the import of poultry meat and poultry products. Oh really? Many consumers will tell you that it is impossible to tell where the poultry meat comes from in the composite foods we buy throughout the European Union. This is some of the information which I believe in this context should be given to the consumer. – Mr President, this is a debate which is going to take very different routes depending on which committees Members sit on. As a Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, I want to concentrate on environmental issues in the context of Barcelona. The first thing is to stress the importance which the Committee on the Environment, and I hope the European Parliament, places on the addition of an environmental dimension to the Lisbon Process of annual assessment of economic growth and social cohesion. Indeed, we were really rather surprised in the Committee on the Environment that the environmental pillar of sustainable development should not be considered of equal importance to the social and economic pillars. I would like to take this opportunity of expressing thanks on behalf of myself and my colleagues to the European Environment Agency for the work that it has done in relation to the environmental indicators. The director of the Environment Agency, Mr Beltrán, will be retiring soon and we are very grateful for the work that he has done. It is also important that we should not leave these indicators floating in the air while congratulating ourselves on the fact that we have produced them. In the view of the Environment Committee, it is very important that we link their production to clear targets and timetables for the work of the Commission and of the Parliament. I would make a domestic point to my colleagues here, namely that we really address the issue of sustainable development better in this Parliament. We ought to organise, for example, an annual debate with an annual assessment of progress in all our committee areas. It is essential to continue to see that environmental considerations are taken into account in other policies. This is something which environment commissioner, Mrs Wallström, has always been very keen on. She faces a tremendous uphill struggle. One policy which illustrates the desperate need for environmental considerations to be taken into account within it is fisheries. I represent the south west of England. We have a number of fishing ports and we are currently facing the consequences of a desperate failure to take environmental considerations into account when operating the Common Fisheries Policy. We have exhausted fish stocks. We have fishermen with no fish to catch. We have dead dolphins being washed up on the beaches of Brittany and Cornwall because industrial trawlers are trawling them up in the middle of the channel and then leaving them for dead. That is a very good example of non-sustainable development and the Parliament ought to get involved in doing something about it. Sustainable development is going to be very important in the context of enlargement. The likelihood is that the applicant states in eastern and central Europe will want to be like us as soon as possible – heaven help them. That means that they will want more roads, more cars, more transport emissions and so on. More damage to the environment will probably be done and we have to find a way, without being culturally imperialist about it, to ensure that rapid economic development in the countries of eastern and central Europe does not damage the environment, particularly the natural environment, in the new Member States. Rio and the Rio Summit is going to bring forth an absolute cascade of words. Whether or not Rio means anything and brings about any concrete results remains to be seen. It is a pity that the Commission has produced its document so late that we cannot give at this point our collective view in the context of Barcelona. That document for Rio contains some very good points, especially the emphasis on providing incentives for environmentally and socially sustainable trade. One thing I would highlight from the position of the Environment Committee is the need for the European Union to sort itself out when it comes to addressing the issue of genetically modified production in the countries of the third world. In December in South Africa there was news of a large increase in the acreage in South Africa which is under cultivation for genetically modified products. What is our message to a country like that? Do we say that the more you produce of that, the less you can export to us? Is that going to be a sustainable message to give them when they want to make a living for themselves? Finally, a word on the dreaded Spanish hydrological plan which has moved across the screen of the European Parliament increasingly frequently. It is not a good idea to condemn one Member State for action taken in good faith by a democratically elected government. In this instance, the Spanish government has submitted an environmental impact assessment in relation to the plan and the European Commission is considering it. This is not the point at which we should start condemning Spain. The Spanish hydrological plan will be a very difficult issue for the British Labour Members of the European Parliament to decide how they are going to vote. Even at this moment, Mr Tony Blair is desperately cultivating Mr Aznar as an ally, so the British Labour Members are caught between supporting their Prime Minister and voting against Mrs Roth-Behrendt who has tabled the amendment. That is not an enviable position to be in and I do not envy them. – Mr President, it is a very wise decision of yours not to require us to have another committee meeting. That starts the week on a good note. However, you might like to ask somebody – I suspect it will be the inevitable Mr Corbett – to have a look at the Rules, because they are rather strange. They state that: 'When over 50 amendments have been tabled to a report, the President may, after consulting its chairman, request the committee responsible to meet to consider the amendments.' That leaves you and me looking through a lot of amendments that can sometimes be rather confusing. What we need is either to have a stringent rule simply stating: 'When over 50 amendments have been tabled to a report, the President  request the committee to meet again', or else to drop this. As it stands, it leaves it between the two of us. I am only happy to say that I support your very wise decision. .  Mr President, it is a little difficult to give an opinion on this when half my colleagues seem to believe that there is no point in giving an opinion because we cannot alter the Convention text. However, for what it is worth, I would just say the following. In many ways the European Union already exercises maximum powers in the area covered by my committee: we have codecision and qualified majority voting. However, there are certain lessons we can draw from our experience. The main lesson that I would draw – which is not embodied in the Convention text – is that we need to be much more careful that we adopt legislation that is put into force. Therefore we need to build into the Constitution or Constitutional Treaty an absolute requirement for the three institutions – the European Commission, the Council of Ministers  the European Parliament – to provide cost-benefit impact assessments of the amendments which they propose for legislation. Unless we do that, we shall continue to adopt legislation which all countries agree with, but which in some countries is ignored and which a lot of countries cannot afford. This will become much more important with the enlargement of the European Union to include a lot of very poor countries. As it is, if we go on with the expectations that we are arousing but cannot fulfil, we will not do Europe or Europe's consumers any good. – This is a very sad day for Parliament and for the rule of law. I wonder whether the Commissioner can explain why he has not acted more firmly and insisted earlier that a unanimous scientific opinion is not negotiable. This Parliament deals with laws; the people who elected us – certainly in the United Kingdom – are waiting to see the law enforced and have been waiting since October. This is a very bad precedent for the European Commissioner, given that he is about to write a White Paper on a food safety agency. Are all unanimous scientific committee opinions delivered to him in future to be negotiable? We hope not. Secondly, where exactly is France raising problems and can the Commissioner confirm that any problems raised by France must result only in clarification to the French and not in any changes to the British date-based export scheme? – Mr President, I have a simple proposal to make to colleagues which is non-technological. We should use our time to complete the vote for Quaestors. We have spent far too long voting this week. Mr Onesta gave us a very useful piece of paper yesterday. I do not know whether it is symbolic, but it is blank! This is a non-technological item, so the socialists should not be frightened of it. Having voted, Members should put a piece of paper – or Mr Onesta's block – over their screen. It is quite simple. . – Mr President, the Committee on the Environment believes that this is a measure that should be dealt with by my committee for three reasons. Firstly, it is based on a part of the Treaty dealing with environmental protection. It will be dealt with by the Environment Council. The Committee on the Environment is responsible for environmental policy; the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market is responsible for civil liability law. In fact, this directive creates an entirely new instrument to combat general environmental damage to biodiversity, water and land, and puts an administrative burden on the public authorities in the Member States to help prevent and restore such damage. It is misleading shorthand to refer to it as an environmental liability directive. The proposal should be referred to instead as the directive on the prevention and remedying of environmental damage.  Secondly, three Vice-Presidents – whom we spent one and a half days electing two and a half years ago – decided unanimously that this report should be drawn up by the Committee on the Environment. I have nothing to do with two of those Vice-Presidents as they come from groups which are miles away from the British Conservatives. The third was Mr Provan who, for all we know, still has a hotline to Mrs Thatcher's handbag.  The Committee on the Environment therefore voted to sustain its objections to the assignment to the Committee on Legal Affairs although, I have to confess, that it voted by a narrow majority. Thirdly, our rapporteur, Mr Papayannakis, is already hard at work on this directive. We appreciate the work Mr Manders has done on the opinion on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs. However, I have to say to the Liberal Group that it has no chance of persuading Mr Papayannakis to give up his rapporteurship in favour of a Liberal.  There is one simple reason for this: if the Liberal Group wishes to take over the rapporteurship in the Committee on the Environment, it is bottom of the list. The following groups have first choice: the UEN, the PSE, the EDD, even the non-attached, and the PPE are higher up the list than the Liberals. There is one other possibility that nobody has thought of: what happens if there is a tie when we vote? I suggest that, in the event of a tie, we assign it to the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities which is looking for things to do. – Mr President, I report to the House at the end of a long and not wholly satisfactory saga. The European Parliament's delegation wanted to see this recommendation on environmental inspection cast in the form of a directive. We were very forceful about that and we tried to persuade the Commission to sympathise with us. It did not. We tried to persuade the Council of Ministers to agree with us and it did not. This is very sad but it is a situation which we have unfortunately had to live with because, if we had not agreed to the texts which we now have in front of us, we probably would not even have had a recommendation. Many of my colleagues – I hope all my colleagues – feel that we are dealing with a very unsatisfactory situation. In effect, we are constantly adding to the burden of European Union legislation on the environment, with the very good intention of improving our environment, but the Member States are signing up to legislation which they are in many cases unable to put in place in the form in which they adopt it. They may in the end be able to reach the standards that they agree to, but we have to ask how long this will take. In some instances the Commission is still very much in the dark about whether Member States are really complying with legislation because the Member States are very slow in telling the Commission about the state of implementation in the reports that they are obliged to send to Brussels. So, if you want to put it at its most dramatic, the European Parliament finds itself complicit in a deceit on the people of Europe. We are telling them that we have very forward-looking environmental legislation but in instances such as the nitrates directive and the urban waste water directive we find that in fact Member States are taking much longer than required to comply with legislation. Indeed the case of the fine that the Greek Government is still paying to Brussels for failing to comply with a waste directive shows that it can be a quarter of a century before a Member State is even taken to court for failing to comply with legislation effectively adopted in the 1970s. Parliament felt that the way to deal with this was to take what was originally a recommendation on environmental inspections and use it as a way of enforcing common standards throughout the Member States by upgrading it to a directive which Member States would, we had hoped, want to take more notice of. As I say, the Member States were against this. It was rather enlightening to go to the meeting of the Conciliation Committee where it was quite clear that some Member State delegations were not interested in the subject at all, let alone in that particular meeting that we went to that night. This is a situation in which only a minority of Member States are really interested in compliance. For most it comes very low down on their list of priorities. So I am afraid we have settled in a sense for second best. We still have hopes that we will be able to return to this issue. Indeed we intend doing so because, although we have a recommendation, within it we have a revision clause which will mean that the Commission comes back to Parliament within the lifetime of this Parliament – I think I am right in saying in 2003 – in order that we can try to assess how the Member States are performing in relation to this particular recommendation. That would mean that Mr Davies and I, if we are spared and have managed to survive foot-and-mouth, BSE and everything else that seems to be afflicting the United Kingdom, will be able to make sure that we move to a directive if we feel that the recommendation is getting us nowhere. We hope that we will have the support of the Commission in making that reassessment in 2003 a really serious exercise. I am sure that Mrs Wallström, who is very keen on getting better compliance, will want to support us in that. We also managed to get into the recommendation the idea that the reports on inspection must be publicly available within two months of their completion and submission to the Commission. We want to make sure that more people in Europe are interested in the issue of compliance – more people throughout the Member States, not simply in a selection of the northern ones. And finally, might I draw attention to the fact that, although we could not formally record this, we have said that we will put a standard clause into directives that will simply say "Member States undertake to have in place, by the date of entry into force of the directive, systems of environmental inspection which will enable them fully to comply with the provisions of this directive". We do not see how any Member State can possibly oppose that. . – Madam President, I am sorry that the Commissioner obviously had a very frustrating time at The Hague, but I congratulate her on remaining optimistic. The European Parliament delegation to the talks was equally disappointed at the outcome, although we were not surprised. Certainly we could have foreseen, as she could, the problem that arose over “sinks”. Those who read the French and British press will realise that there is quite a lot of attention on what seems to have been the breakdown in the relationship between Mrs Voynet, the French minister, and Mr Prescott, the British minister. They were, in a sense, an accident waiting to happen – like the Titanic and the iceberg. Mr Prescott is now holed below the water line and we do not know how long he will remain afloat. One of the things we feel, at least I feel in a personal capacity, is the trouble is that a Green minister has absolutely no room to negotiate on Green issues. Madam Voynet was bound not to give way to the American point of view. You would not expect any less of her, would you? My question to the Commissioner is: Does she feel that there is any flexibility likely to arise in the European Union position on “sinks”; secondly, when does she forecast that the talks are likely to resume; and thirdly, was Mr Prescott’s statement to the House of Commons actually true? He said in the House of Commons that the agreement which he had laboriously brokered with all the skills of a Sherman tank would have prevented developed countries from gaining credits from the clean development mechanism for planting forests in developing countries, which sounds rather good. This was felt by many countries, particularly the green groups, to be a huge loophole. The agreement would have placed a ceiling on the use of forest sinks by the United States, Japan and Canada, a ceiling which Europe had been asking for, and strengthen the scientific requirements applied to the domestic sinks. Given the – surprise – glowing report by Mr Prescott on the deal which he had himself brokered, why was it that not only Madam Voynet but, I believe, and this is my last question to the Commissioner, most of the other environment ministers in Europe all rejected that? It seems from Mr Prescott’s report to his own Parliament that he was making them an offer they could not refuse? In conclusion I regret that this has happened, but I hope that we will in the end share Mrs Wallström’s optimism and get the kind of agreement on climate change which we need. – Mr President, this is a bad directive. I do not say that on the basis of any emotion or the fact that Doctor Rath has lobbied me. Oddly enough I have not received many e-mails, so my machine has not been stuffed full of e-mails from Doctor Rath or anybody else. I do not know why that is, but I am very quick with the delete button. I do believe this is a very bad directive, not in its intention but in its method. It is designed, as everybody has said, to bring about a common market in food supplements. It may well bring that about, but in doing so the risk is – and there is a risk – that some products currently on the market in some countries will cease to be available. I, like many British MEPs, have received many letters from people in the region that I represent. These are not circular letters that they have just signed, they are letters that they have written themselves. The people who write them fear that they will no longer be able to buy over 300 food supplements that their good health depends on. We do not need to go into why this fear has arisen and who stirred it up, if anybody has stirred it up. The fact of the matter is that the Commission has created a situation, by bringing forward the directive in this form, that has given people reason to voice and to have such fears. I have no quarrel with the German Members or with the rapporteur. She has done a valiant job. They are standing up for the system they have in place. They believe our – British, in this instance – more liberal system may allow unsafe products onto the market. We contend that consumers should be able to exercise as wide a choice as possible and that there is no evidence that products on our market are unsafe. Where is the evidence that they are unsafe? Why should we have to prove that they are safe when people buy them every day and believe that their health depends on them? I say to Commissioner Byrne: be careful. This directive tries to reconcile very different national approaches to allowing these products onto the markets and it fails in that attempt at reconciliation. Small businesses have been allowed too little time to submit the required safety dossier on their products. We may put that right tomorrow, but why, Commissioner Byrne, is it that there is no cost impact assessment on small businesses in this directive? When it came forward two years ago there was no cost impact assessment attached. Just as important, we need to have the whole process of reviewing what there is on the market much more out in the open. It should not be done by secret committees. MEPs on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy will insist that we are much better informed on this, so that we can keep track of what is happening on behalf of our anxious constituents. We hope that we will be able to block any heavy-handed attempt to deprive people of the products they know and continue to need. – Mr President, Parliament's Committee on the Environment is increasingly concerned that we are adopting European environmental legislation and then neglecting to implement it properly. Putting it bluntly, we believe that the Council of Ministers, the Commission and the European Parliament are complicit in a deception of the public. Opinion polls show that the majority of people support the idea that environmental issues are important and should be dealt with at European level. We are adopting legislation that appears to fill this need. In fact, in all too many cases, environmental laws are ignored, targets are not met, reports are not sent in to the Commission on time and those countries which break the law go unpunished. The purpose of this debate is to highlight what is going wrong and to try and do something about it. The Committee on the Environment has put together three reports, we call them ‘insight reports’, basing ourselves on the model of the US Congress. We have found that the habitats directive is locked in controversy and law suits. The PCBs directive is characterised by the failure of Member States to supply the all-important inventories of the stocks they hold. The nitrates directive was probably flawed from the beginning and all but two countries, Denmark and Sweden of course, are now before the European Court of Justice because of their failure to implement it. It is highly likely that these shortcomings are repeated throughout the canon of EU environmental law. What can be done about this? We hope firstly that in the environmental action programme, which the world is eagerly awaiting, the Commission will key in adequate resources for following up what has happened to legislation. It would be interesting to hear from the Commissioner roughly how many people in her Directorate are responsible for this as compared to those overseeing the introduction of new legislation. There needs to be a much more honest debate secondly – nationally and at the European level – about the real possibility of achieving the environmental objectives set out in draft legislation. Too often, we suspect, Member States sign up to green laws because it looks good to do so, and opposing or moderating them is seen as politically insensitive. If, in fact, they cannot comply with what they have agreed to, such countries are doing Green causes harm. If the Germans and others, for example, now have trouble with the habitats directive, why did we not hear more about it when that directive was going through this Parliament? And did the German Government, in fact, vote against that directive originally? Certainly the cost of clean-up laws must be taken into account when a law is adopted. A good example of the failure to do this is the urban waste water directive which the government of Brussels cannot afford to comply with. We suspect that the same thing will happen with the national emissions ceiling directive. Thirdly, we want Member States to develop the infrastructures which will allow them, all of them, to carry out the monitoring work that must accompany the proper implementation of many of the EU directives we adopt here. My colleagues and I were desperately disappointed that the Council felt it could not agree to our proposal to transform the environmental inspections recommendation into a directive. We were not demanding an EU inspectorate but simply that Member States should agree to bring their national inspectorates up to a common high standard. We will continue to pursue this idea in two years time when the issue should return to us. Fourthly, we want much quicker action by the Commission to take Member States to court when they break EU law. Last week the Greek Government, which can ill afford to do so, paid the second instalment of a fine, now totalling over EUR 2 million for failure to comply with a judgment of the Court of Justice over the dumping of waste in Crete. This was thirteen years after the Commission received the first complaint about the dumping of that waste and no less than nineteen years after the directive concerned came into force. It is absurd that a poor country should get itself into a situation of paying back money to Brussels, but equally absurd that the case should have taken so long. Finally, let me say that we in Parliament are not daunted or diverted by the idea that the European Parliament should only be concerned with the adoption of legislation and not with its follow-up. Apparently the Environment Council was somewhat surprised and even disapproving that we had intruded into their territory and that our intention was to take the environmental inspections recommendation very seriously. MEPs, as we will all know, are on the receiving end of public criticism of poor implementation. The public tends to complain to us, not to the Environment Council. In the interests of the people of Europe and their environment, we will pursue this issue and we will not let go. – Mr President, on a point of order, we would very much appreciate it if you could ask the Finnish Presidency – which is sitting over there – whether it can be present at 9 o'clock this evening in order to help us with our debate on the Papayannakis report. The Council, and only the Council, can give us the background to what happened last night in the Agriculture Council. Could you please, so as to preserve the interests of the Members of this Parliament, put that question to the Council for an answer? – Mr President, this is a question about the Eighth Conference of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol dealing with the reduction of CO2 emissions. Is an urgent matter because the New Delhi Conference, to which the question refers, is now beginning. The European Parliament, and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy in particular, are very concerned that we should keep the Kyoto momentum going. In the European Union all is really not well, because some of the Member States that have ratified Kyoto are in the process of increasing their emissions of CO2, notably Spain. We have adopted a number of directives tending to decrease CO2 emissions, and the Commission has put forward a very useful programme showing what it has done and what it intends to do. We are particularly interested in the proposals on monitoring mechanisms, which are likely to come forward soon. I want to ask three things. Firstly, how important is the New Delhi Conference? The Commissioner would say that it is very important. If so, then my next question is why is she here and is she planning to go? I am sure that if she is not planning to go, it is not a symptom of the downgrading of the status of the conference. We simply want to know what is likely to happen at New Delhi. We have heard conflicting rumours. Secondly, it would be interesting to hear how the Commission thinks other countries could be encouraged to participate in the Kyoto process. For example, I recently met with the Australian Ambassador to the European Union. Australia is not a party to Kyoto and is clearly not planning to become one. Australia might not have major CO2 emissions, but it could lead the way in South East Asia – a very important area where increasing industrialisation is increasing those emissions. Thirdly, we should sort out what the role of MEPs is when they attend such conferences. In the past, my colleagues have had increasingly uncomfortable experiences attending these conferences, for example the Johannesburg Conference on Sustainable Development. The Commission is always extremely helpful and briefs MEPs as much as possible, but our delegations are not part of the meetings held by the EU delegation as such. We cannot understand why we cannot be observers at that process. It is absurd for the representatives of the people of Europe to travel halfway round the world only to be spectators at a conference where the people negotiating on their behalf are not directly elected on a European mandate. We would like to see this changed so that we are at least given observer status in EU meetings at such conferences. – Mr President, these oversight reports by Parliament are very important because we need not only to examine new legislation but to look back to see what has happened to the legislation we have adopted. Mrs Corbey is quite right to name names. The Member States were supposed to bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the packaging directive before 30 June 1996. That did not happen. Two things should flow from the findings Mrs Corbey has put before us. Firstly, we must ask whether the original directive, as Mr Florenz has said, was defective or whether ministers were not honest with themselves about what they could achieve when they adopted it. The answer is probably a combination of the two. Secondly, we should ask why the Commission did not act more quickly than it has to investigate why the directive was struggling to gain universal compliance. I regret that Mrs Corbey did not focus on these questions. Individual countries have had very different experiences as each has put a recovery system in place. My own evidence from the United Kingdom is that our system has been too bureaucratic. One businessman in Cornwall complained to me that he had to employ a graduate specifically to keep a track of his firm's obligations under the directive. What lessons are there from our experience which could underpin the revision of the directive, or at least a revision of the way that Member States are applying it? The Commission is wrong if it proposes higher targets for recycling. This is the easy way out, but the wrong way. Such targets cannot take account of the considerable variations and circumstances between Member States, so we will end up with an even bigger range of results than we have now, creating trade barriers and distorting competition. If we are to get EU environmental law that really makes a difference, we must, within much broader targets, allow Member States to adopt solutions best suited to their respective local environments and economies. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate both the Parliament's rapporteurs on the hard work that they put in. They produced a result which they can be proud of. It was produced after an immense amount of work very late at night. However, speaking as a British Member of the European Parliament there were enormous difficulties about these directives, particularly the Large Combustion Plants Directive. I want to focus on the point that we laboured under the enormous difficulty that neither the Commission nor the Council really came clean about the impact of what they were proposing. Nor did they give us an accurate assessment or help us assess the impact of what the European Parliament was proposing. Mr Bowe and I, as British Members of the European Parliament, were faced with lobbies from Britain basically saying that if we adopted the Parliament's amendments, the British coal mines which are still in production would all have to close down. We were therefore faced with the possibility of voting for amendments and voting for reports from our own committee which would have had a very serious economic impact in our own Member State. When we went to the Council of Ministers meeting, we found that there were other Member States with exactly the same problems, Finland, for example, where the ministers and governments of those countries had never really contacted their Members of the European Parliament to explain the difficulties they thought they were going to have. We also had the extraordinary situation, when we got to the codecision meeting, where four civil servants delivered speeches that really should have been made by ministers. The point I want to make is this. We need two things: we need much greater honesty from Member States and the Commission about the actual impact in the Member States of what is being proposed and what is being discussed. There should at least be some advice on that. Secondly, when we go to the codecision meetings we must stop having meetings between fifteen MEPs, one minister, and fourteen civil servants. That is ridiculous. Many of the points made to us on the reports by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten and Mrs Myller should have been made by ministers. It is ministers we want to meet when we go to the codecision meetings. Mr President, I apologise for my lateness. Human rights seem to have been taking up quite a lot of time, and quite right too. I want to express Parliament’s concern that the Kyoto Protocol may falter and fail, leaving the world without any coherent network of obligations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We in the European Parliament offer our full support to the Commission and to the presidency in their endeavours to ensure that the Kyoto Protocol survives and comes into force. We would like to use this brief debate to explore what Europe can do to lead the world in the absence of American leadership and in what ways the Members of the European Parliament who attend the Bonn Conference can speak for the people of Europe and actively participate in the proceedings. We very much appreciate the work of the Dutch Minister, Mr Pronk, in seeking to find a way to solve the unresolved issues left over from The Hague, and we would appreciate it if the Commission could give us its view on how successful he has been to date and whether or not the work he has done has now cleared the way forward. But the big question for us is whether it will be possible to show that the European Union, and the other major parties to the Protocol, are prepared to take decisions without the United States. Here the attitude of the new Japanese government is crucial. Without the votes of Japan and Canada the Protocol cannot enter into force. We gather that the omens are not good and that Japan probably, and Canada certainly, lack the political will to go ahead without the United States. If Japan is prepared to go ahead, then there is the suspicion that the Japanese may want to re-write the crucial proposals within the protocol, notably using the year 2000 perhaps rather than 1990 as the base year for calculating greenhouse gas emission reductions. One of my colleagues, Mr Moreira Da Silva, who will be leading Parliament’s delegation to Bonn, wishes to move an oral amendment on this point to the resolution we have tabled, since the problem with Japan has really only come to the fore in the period since we tabled it. Our resolution reiterates in paragraph 3 our basic expectations about the action that will follow ratification of the protocol. But as Europeans we must make a sober assessment of what this will mean for us if it were to happen and still more if it were to happen without the United States. First and most crucially: money. As the protocol stands, financial contributions from individual parties will be based on each party’s share of CO2 emissions. It is not difficult to see that the United States, with 39% of the total 1990 emissions, would pay the lion’s share. The question that occurs to me, which should perhaps have been asked earlier, is how the Clinton government ever thought it could persuade Congress to sign up to the Treaty. Perhaps greater honesty at the outset might have helped provide a more realistic atmosphere. Without the United States the burden will fall on Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Canada and Australia. The finance available for measures to reduce CO2 emissions in poorer countries will be greatly reduced without US participation. The strain on the Europeans will be greater. Are we prepared for this, I ask? Secondly, if we ratify Kyoto alone or without the United States it will mean taking certain actions that are going to be painful. We MEPs who follow these issues recognise that. Every year, every month, far into the night, we deal with directives designed to reduce emissions, but we also know that in most instances when we encounter the Council or their representatives it is extremely difficult to get the Member States to agree to these proposals in their original, very demanding form. We now face a situation where, according to the European Environment Agency, only the United Kingdom, Germany and Luxembourg reduced their greenhouse gas emissions between 1990 and 1998. All the other countries of Europe increased them. So how will Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium, Austria, Finland, Italy and, to a lesser extent, Sweden and France, meet the Kyoto targets? Or will we, as the United States suspects, not be willing to take the actions that will give reality to our ambitions? We hope that the Bonn Conference and the Belgian presidency will be able to move the Europeans on from words to action. Finally a word on the participation of the EU delegation in the Bonn conference. We are tired of being a Greek chorus in this tragedy. We are tired of coming on to stage when the main action has taken place to lament or celebrate what has happened and to offer philosophical reflections on the sad state of mankind – indeed! This is unsatisfactory because we should ourselves be reckoned as protagonists since we will have to adopt the legislation that will flow from Kyoto and we will have to explain it to the people of Europe. We may not want to be negotiators ourselves, but our ambition is to play a full part in the meetings with the European Union delegation that decides how Europe will act. We are not content to remain as a chorus. – As other colleagues have said, this is a thoroughly odd proposal. It is a very bad proposal and I hope that Mr Liikanen when he speaks will agree to suspend it. I do not think it should be withdrawn, I think it should be suspended. I am concerned about the precedent that this proposal will set. The precautionary principle is very sensibly described in a recent Commission paper. There is an obvious danger of applying it too widely because it brings the European Union approach into disrepute. For example, a thousand people a year – no doubt some of them small children – die in England and Wales while falling downstairs. I do hope that does not mean that we are going to see a European Union regulation restricting us all to living in bungalows. This proposal suggests that, on emotive subjects, the Commission is prepared to act on the basis of that emotion, without the kind of sensible assessment of risk that we need here, as we do for example on risks in foodstuffs. There has to be, even with the precautionary principle, a substantial link between the assessment of risk and action by the European Union. If not, then surely we do not even need a European Food Agency: we can just legislate on the basis of the precautionary principle. It is the Commission's task to assess that risk. In this case I am not satisfied, as Mr Bowis has said, that the Commission really heeded the advice of its own advisers. When the chairman of the scientific committee came to us he most certainly did not convey to us any sense of the urgent need for action. The conclusion I draw from this is that in future, to avoid this kind of emotive reaction on an emotive subject, we should have a European Union chemicals agency, which will not be the creature of the Commission, to assess risks. I am concerned that the science behind this proposal is incomplete. Yes, eight Member States have banned phthalates, but when the Commissioner replies, can he tell us whether those eight Member States have supplied the Commission with the scientific evidence that they based their ban on? We also lack the evidence on migration limits, and that has been mentioned. That might have enabled the Commission to bring forward a proposal we could all agree with. What we therefore have is a thoroughly unsatisfactory proposal. Six phthalates are identified, and a system of warnings proposed that makes no sense. The Environment Committee has taken the logical step that the Commission avoided. If these are dangerous, then they should all be banned and warnings would then be unnecessary. The only problem with this is that the action is then quite disproportionate to the risk, and sets a thoroughly bad precedent for future European Union action in relation to the chemicals we use. – I do not know about you, but its seems to me that this evening is rather reminiscent of the Titanic. I have a horrible feeling that the whole ship is sinking. I hope that I am not right, but if we go on like this, perhaps we should join in a chorus of "Nearer my God to Thee", standing in the middle and singing it. I hope, when the Commission replies, that the Commissioner will be kind enough to reply to the debate in English. It is extremely helpful when he does so, because this is an issue where a number of us have constituents who are very anxious to find out what is going on, and it is extremely helpful if he can reply in English if at all possible. This is a deeply unsatisfactory issue dealt with unsatisfactorily by the Commission. Parliament's Environment Committee has put together a short resolution in order that Members can debate it with the Commission and we can attempt to get some clarification from them. It is unsatisfactory in the approach that the Commission has had to adopt and indeed in the content of the proposal coming before us. What we are doing this evening is commenting on a draft Commission regulation. There is no chance for the European Parliament to propose amendments to it through our normal procedures. We can only object and if we do object, that would hold up agreement. We do not really want to hold up such agreement, so we are taking this opportunity of having this debate. We underline in the motion before you that we believe that this kind of issue should be dealt with in future through the codecision procedure. In fact, members of the committee find that the whole European Union approach to genetically modified food at the moment is in a rather confused state. Indeed we have a number of Commissioners who seem to be dealing with it, although Mr Liikanen is taking the lead. Legislation has been brought forward piecemeal. We have already had the novel foods regulation, but this is another part of the jigsaw. We feel that consumers may well be very confused about exactly what the European Union is proposing and how it will impact on them and on the food that they eat and the labels that they read. There is still nothing from the European Commission on the labelling of genetically modified material when it is contained in animal feed and we look forward to proposals on that. On the whole, the committee received rather conflicting signals about the recommended maximum 1% content level. I really would ask the Commissioner when he replies to the debate to take this opportunity to clarify as publicly as possible why the European Commission has chosen the 1% level. I understand that the Commission was under considerable pressure to go for a much higher level, 5% was the level which some American interests wanted the Commission to go for. On the other hand, there are some members of the committee who argue that a 0.1% level would have been perfectly feasible and pointed out that some supermarket chains around the European Union are insisting on a 0.1% level. I believe that the Commission's answer to this is that the 1% level is the only level at which we can be absolutely sure that the testing methods are available so that they can be firmly based in Community law. If that is the case, then how can supermarkets chains argue to us that a 0.1% level is perfectly feasible? Are the testing methods available, and what about the supermarkets claims? The committee was so unhappy about this that it wanted to make absolutely clear to the European Commission that it wants to review of this proposal in short order. I hope that the Commission will comment on the feasibility of this. If the 1% level is found to be perfectly technically feasible, there are many in the Community who want to make sure that it is possible to review that level downwards, and we would like to have the Commission's view on that. Finally, we turn to the question of enforcement and paragraph 6 of the resolution. Can the Commission state absolutely certainly that it is going to be possible to apply this maximum 1% content level to very small quantities of ingredients? As we read the regulation, it says that the maximum 1% level may apply to ingredients of a product, not necessarily simply to the product as a whole. If that is the case, we are looking at very small quantities indeed, and there are a number of members of the committee who feel that essentially this proposal that we are looking at tonight is unenforceable and represents another occasion where the European Commission has produced something which looks good but which will not actually work out in practice. Mr President, the only observation is that if you postpone this vote today, you will run into the problem that my committee will be producing an avalanche of reports in the future, so it might be as well to deal with it now. – Mr President, this morning the press tells us that you complained that you had to get up at 4 a.m. in order to get to Strasbourg to do business here. I do hope you think it is worthwhile getting up that early. I would like to know on behalf of my colleagues who have just taken the memorial last flight from London Gatwick to Strasbourg what you are doing about this situation? Baroness Ludford has already raised this matter. You have no doubt been in touch with the mayor of Strasbourg; many of us have written to the Mayor of Strasbourg. If Strasbourg is to be taken seriously as a place where the European Parliament does business, and welcomes not only Members from that Parliament and new Members but also business people and the press of the world, then it has to do something about the flights to Strasbourg from London. What is happening? Will we in fact find ourselves on the memorial last flight from Strasbourg to London on Thursday? If so, that is very sad, not least for Strasbourg itself, which has absolutely no hope of getting the backing of any British Members in its future role as one of the places where the European Parliament meets. – Madam President, can the Commission confirm that it has accepted Amendment No 1 by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy? This would mean that the directive could be adopted by a qualified majority, and we would then be able to lay the directive to rest. Belgians and French people would then be able to enjoy British chocolate as much as the British have enjoyed French and Belgian chocolate. – Madam President, I should like to thank Commissioner Byrne for that statement. He has had rather a baptism of fire as a new Commissioner. Would he agree with me that the situation as regards beef has now tended, in the public eye, to throw into chaos the question of the acceptability of judgments delivered at the European level on food safety and that this bodes rather ill for Mr Prodi’s plan for a European food safety agency? That is of great importance to my committee and will be of importance to this Parliament in the months to come. Specifically on the ban and the judgment of the Scientific Steering Committee, could he say why, if the judgment is so clear and unanimous, there is any need for further negotiation . . . () . . . or should we call it clarification. The boundary between clarification and negotiation seems – at least from the other side of the Channel – to be somewhat blurred. Will he take action against France after the Commission meeting on 10 November if, by that stage, having had several days to digest the unanimous decision, the French Government has taken no action to lift this ban? . – I am in favour of a directive which gives consumers information that is verifiable and meaningful, so that they are then in a position to decide for themselves whether or not to buy food containing GM material. The European Union should not require labelling of something which is not present and therefore not detectable in the final product. This is disproportionate, unenforceable and open to fraud. I am in favour of the 1% rule. I regard this is as a level which reliably reflects the possibilities of modern technology. I oppose the idea that there should be a requirement for the labelling of products from animals fed GM feed. This too would be unenforceable. Research has shown that transgenic DNA from GM animal feed is not found in milk, meat and eggs. GM technology offers us the chance to develop less environmentally damaging forms of agriculture, with less use of pesticides, herbicides, and artificial fertilisers. I believe that, with sensible legislation that takes account of the need to establish verifiable systems to indicate GMs, Europeans could reap the benefit of GM food and feed – and still avoid consuming them if they wish to. – Thank you, Commissioner, for your statement. I think the lines that you have set up regarding the Food Safety Authority are a recognition of reality. The Member States would not accept a regulatory agency, so there is not very much point in your proposing one. Some sectors of the food industry clearly need better regulation and that is clear on the issue of feed and animal feedingstuffs. However, as chairman of a committee which looks as though it will be concerning itself almost entirely with food over the next three years, I have to ask: if Europe has the safest food control system, as you have said, why do we need 24 new directives and regulations and 20 new amending directives? Secondly, will this not compound the problem of over-regulation from Brussels and under-implementation in the Member States? We look forward to a fruitful dialogue with you on this. Regarding enlargement: what plans does the Commission have to involve the applicant states in debates on these new laws, given that the Commission clearly expects the laws envisaged in the White Paper to form part of the acquis communautaire by 2003? Mr President, I find myself in agreement with Mrs Grossetête and Mrs Paulsen and – rather alarmingly for both of us – with Mr Bowe. But I want to make a particular point in relation to an alarm which has been raised in the United Kingdom by the agricultural sector literally in the last few days. A number of United Kingdom MEPs have been contacted by farming interests, who are very worried that the incineration directive will apply to all on-farm incinerators in the United Kingdom. There are said to be several thousand of these, and the full effect of applying the controls outlined in the directive would be to put up the costs for each incinerator to operate by an estimated £200 000. Typically, such incinerators deal with animal waste from the agriculture sector and with the disposal of empty pesticide containers at a rate of less than 50 kg an hour. Both processes satisfy the criteria of best practicable environmental option and are accepted by environmental inspectors in the United Kingdom. No exception has been moved for these under Article 2(2) and the closure of incinerators following the entry into force of the directive would pose enormous problems of cost and of disposal of animal waste for UK farmers. My question to the Commissioner, which I hope that she will able to answer when she comes, is this: since we have not moved an exception to take account of these on-farm incinerators, is this the first time the European Commission has heard of this difficulty? Have they received any representations from United Kingdom ministers? Can the Commissioner say when an opportunity for revising the directive to introduce these exceptions – supposing Parliament would ever agree to them – might arise, and does it feel that such an exception for animal waste and for the burning of empty pesticide containers in on-farm incinerators would in fact be likely to gain acceptance? I have given the Commissioner notice of these questions. – Mr President, I hope we can get agreement on the Sixth Environmental Action Programme, preferably without going into conciliation. I would like, on behalf of the committee, to thank Mrs Müller for the immense amount of work she has put into this report. I underline my support for the amount of work she has done because I actually disagree with many of the conclusions she has come to. Nevertheless, we have dealt with this matter so extensively that we will probably not gain anything by extending the process to the full beauties of late-night conciliation in Brussels. The amendments tabled by the committee and the rapporteur do not really add up to anything of substance and, where they do, the results would probably be to damage the chances of success of the Environmental Action Programme. I draw your attention to Amendment No 11, which is already out of date. I would criticise, as Mr Bernié has done, the reliance of the rapporteur to a considerable extent on jargon. Old war horses are trotted out again and given one more exhausted run around the course. The chemical industry is focused on as the villain of the piece and the substitution principle makes a well-earned reappearance in the amendments that the committee has asked the House to consider. The assumption of at least Amendment No 1 – and to some extent Amendment No 30 – is that the substitution principle exists as a fully worked-out concept. It does not. It is an amalgam of assumptions and suspicions fudged together by the green movement as a universal panacea. The amendments talk of this as a fully worked-out policy, but we should at least be consistent. The Schörling report, which we voted on a few months ago, called on the Commission to produce a definition of the substitution policy principle, so we can hardly deal with it now as though it really is in existence. Do we need a Sixth Environmental Action Programme? I do not share the cynicism and despair of some in the ELDR Group. Some sort of route map or check list is helpful and desirable. The Commission probably built on previous mistakes by attaching so much weight to the idea of a programme. The poor Commissioner wanted a slim programme and has ended up with a fatty! I also regret – and she may regret – the submission of the programme to full codecision because that has certainly lengthened the process without adding to the substance. The best part of the Environmental Action Programme for me is the concentration on better implementation. In the old days we wanted an action programme in order to put pressure on the Council to agree to legislation. Now the trouble is that the Council does agree to legislation and then does very little about it. Without better implementation we are deceiving the people of Europe into believing that things are getting better and better, in the words of the old Labour Party advertisement. Just as at home in UK things are not getting better and better, the words remain easy to say but they are often not followed by action and it is up to us to see that they are. – I support the appeal made by Mr von Wogau but I would also like to elaborate on the request made by Mr Goepel, because he has made a very interesting constitutional suggestion, namely, that the representative of the Council should speak in connection with the Papayannakis report. I would like to support that and I hope that the Council, which, under the Finnish presidency, has professed to be as open, transparent and communicative as possible with the Parliament, takes up this suggestion. Last night, I understand, the Agriculture Council not only adopted a position on the Papayannakis report resolution, which it was rather beforehand in doing – but it also, I believe, altered the legal basis of the text on which Mr Papayannakis drew up his report. We would like a full explanation of that, but it makes sense to have it from the Council, which carried out this decision, rather than from the Commission, which was, I suppose, only a spectator. So please could we put off this debate on the French beef ban, and could we also make sure that the Council speaks in the Papayannakis report? . – I think that is all we can do. The committee meets at 7.30 tonight, because we have to deal with a proposal which has come late to us from the European Commission. We understand that we cannot accelerate the procedure so that we come first on the list of subjects for debate, so we will debate this, as usual in a crowded House, at about 11.15 tonight. – Mr President, I rise on a point of order as the chairman of the committee which is bringing this report to Parliament, and particularly on behalf of the rapporteur. Members of this Parliament will be aware of the very high degree of public interest in this issue and of the lobbying to which we have all been subjected. I am not against that lobbying – a lively parliament should welcome lobbying from all sides.  But the situation regarding this particular directive is unusual and serious. Firstly, the rapporteur, Mrs Müller, who has done her job very gallantly, has been subjected to unacceptable harassment and threats. Lies have been disseminated as to her motivation. Secondly, the people in question, led by Dr Rath from Germany, have practised deception on Parliament. They gained entry as a news team to the committee meeting when her report was adopted, and used the material to make a video that caricatures the views of the Committee on the Environment and its rapporteur. Mr President, I ask you to consider what can be done about this. I would like to ask the Presidency to find a means of dealing with such excessive, fraudulent and oppressive approaches.  It is true that in this instance they have done more harm than good, as Mrs McKenna has said; and it has to be said that there is a perfectly good case against this directive; but we need to put in place a procedure, as a parliament, to guard ourselves in the future. In some national parliaments in this instance the person concerned would certainly be called before the parliament, reprimanded and asked to apologise, and we might consider putting that in place.  But given the fact that there are now electronic means to overwhelm us with lobbying, we need to do something. I ask the President of Parliament to consider this very urgently. – My question to Mr Byrne relates to the recent report of the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin on the incidence of BSE in France. This was a report which related to a period during 1999, but which came to the European Parliament and to MEPs not very long ago. The findings of the report make extremely alarming reading. A large number of French departments – I think about 23 departments – had not apparently been monitoring for BSE in the cattle populations within their departments, although they were departments in which there were a large number of dairy cattle. The conditions and the controls in the abattoirs were such that one drew the conclusion from the report that it is perfectly possible today, 29 March 2000, that animals with BSE are still entering the food chain in France. This must be an issue of great concern to the Commissioner. I raised this with the French Agriculture Minister, Mr Glavany, when he came to Brussels last week. He rejected out of hand the conclusions of the Food and Veterinary Office report and the findings of the inspectors. I would like to know what the Commission is doing about this. I realise that my question will be more properly posed to the Agriculture Commissioner, but Mr Byrne is responsible for food safety, and clearly there is a risk to the safety of food in France if the findings of the Food and Veterinary Office are accepted. Could I therefore ask Mr Byrne what he is doing about this report? – Mr President, I will very briefly come back on that. I take the Commissioner’s point about subsidiarity but what we are arguing for in Parliament is a minimum framework directive which does not invade subsidiarity and which solves the problem by creating an obligation on the Member States to set up an inspectorate within certain broad guidelines. Secondly, I would like to ask the Commissioner, given that all of us will be lobbying the Member States to change their minds, whether he can let us in on a secret in the interests of transparency. Which is the one Member State which we do not need to lobby? Mr President, like Mr Blokland and some other speakers, I want to speak on behalf of the accession states. When I was chairing the debates on Mrs Grossetête's and Mrs Müller's reports in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, I was presented with a petition, which I have with me here tonight. It was signed by a large number of members of the observer teams from the accession states. Almost all the accession states are there represented. Certainly a very large number of Polish observers are very worried about this proposal. I support the Grossetête and Müller reports. I congratulate both our rapporteurs, and I imagine that they will be very glad to see the back of these three proposals. They have done very good work. However, I also support the ten-year data exclusivity period for the present 15 Member States. But I am very aware that the accession states have recently negotiated legislation in their own countries to put the  on to their statute book, and that included a period of data exclusivity of six years. We are in danger here tonight of glossing over something very important, and I cannot understand why, given that the accession states were able to ask for derogation periods, we are not already hearing exactly what derogation periods they are asking for. Part of the trouble may be the responsibility of the accession states themselves: they have not yet asked the Commission  the Commissioner can tell us this  for delays, temporary derogations, extensions, etc. It would be far better, however, and in the interests of transparency, if, before we adopted this legislation - and I know that it is almost too late - we had a list of the derogations requested from the accession states in order to build these into the preamble to the existing directives before us. Mr Liikanen may say that is impossible. If he does, he is wrong, because that is precisely what we have done in the draft directive on packaging, which we have almost concluded. The accession states asked for certain derogations. We asked what the dates were. They gave us the dates. The Commission said that these dates were fairly acceptable. We then built into the packaging directive preamble reference to the dates of derogations that the accession states requested. If we adopt the legislation before us now without specific reference to the negotiations and to the deadlines requested by the accession states, then we are in danger of producing legislation which is not transparent, because nothing will appear in the Official Journal alongside these directives drawing attention to the deadlines available to the accession states before they need to implement them. This is a very bad way of proceeding. I have some sympathy with the Poles and others who are worried about this. I can see that it is necessary for the health of the western European pharmaceutical industry for us to go for the ten-year data exclusivity period, but we need to be fair to the accession states and, above all, we need to be transparent about the arrangements that we reach with them. – The  seems to be something of a mystery ship, operating off the coast of Ireland, Mauritania or wherever. I have a very simple question for the Commission. Was the  built with the aid of money which originated in the European Union budget, going to Ireland to help with this, or not? If so, how much money? Mr President, I believe that the approach of this directive is out of date. That is confirmed by the Commission's recently published Thematic Strategy on Recycling. This now says: 'Current directives foresee that all Member States should achieve the same recycling targets as this one does. However, the question is legitimate whether this uniformity in targets is most effective, both from an environmental and economic point of view. It might be better to have an overall EU recycling target at EU level and let market forces determine which recycling facilities can achieve the objective in the most cost-effective manner.' How right that is! We know that there are some Member States that want to go beyond the proposed targets. Others will find them impossible to meet. So why are we ploughing on with a strategy that is already being undermined by the practicalities? The United Kingdom has a problem with this. For many years we have relied on landfill. Our geology favoured that. We consequently had no particular incentive to press ahead with recycling, as some countries did. We are now moving as fast as we can, but there is no way that we can move as fast as the rapporteur's amendments prescribe. To do that would mean spending EUR 1.8 billion on recycling packaging waste alone, and packaging waste is only 6% of the waste going to landfill in Britain. This would mean that we would have to tell British local councils to initiate policies to remove packaging from the household waste stream. That takes time and money, Mrs Corbey. Maybe such policies are not the most pressing priorities of my country's local authorities. Maybe their priority is financing home helps, Meals on Wheels for the elderly or services of another kind. If subsidiarity is to mean anything at all, such priorities should be for local decision. How can I defend a situation where a combination of continental MEPs press for changes that will supply an imperative to British local authorities that a majority of British MEPs have not voted for? – I am simply pointing out that the Commissioner should not give the impression that there is no room for conciliation on this. We have room for conciliation and the advantage, if we adopt these amendments tomorrow, is that Parliament would be openly engaged in the final form of this proposal, which otherwise we will not be. – Mr President, I want to put on record the European Parliament's concern and apprehension on the subject of the Hague Conference. Firstly, as was mentioned earlier, there is the question of the participation of MEPs in the conference at all. Whatever European Union policies flow from this conference at The Hague will have to come to this Parliament for debate, amendment and agreement, that is the European policies. National policies, whatever they are, will have to go through national parliaments, but we will have a hand in agreeing whatever comes forward as a European Union policy as a consequence of The Hague. So far our promised participation in the EU delegation has been limited to three parliamentarians. At the same time the exact nature of parliamentary participation is very unclear. We would like to be able to send a bigger delegation. We realise that COREPER is going to wrestle with this next week but we look forward to hearing any news from the Commissioner on this. We would also like our representatives to be briefed before the conference. I hope we can have a full briefing from the Commissioner, we will hear about that in a moment, and to receive all necessary briefing during it. But that is not all: we need our representatives to be present at all the EU delegation meetings, including those where tactics and policy are discussed. We do not believe that in asking for this we are asking for too much. Given our involvement in the making of European Union law it is absurd for the Commission and Council to keep the negotiations to themselves. Secondly, there is the question of how far the industrialised countries, including the United States, are really sincere about COP6 and the ratification of Kyoto. Do they, and in all honesty do we, really want to go forward or are we about to witness a slamming on of the brakes? We already seem to have devastating evidence of the impact of climate change, yet, when members of the Committee on the Environment had a recent meeting with members of the United States Congress, fortunately via a video link, the impression they gained was that Congress will not agree to the ratification of Kyoto. Now, if the United States cannot agree such pro-environment measures when its economy is prospering to such a great extent, what chance will we have another time, when things may not look so good? We would welcome the Commission's views on how far the Americans are likely to sabotage The Hague Conference, and what we may salvage from the wreck. If the United States gives strong signals that it will not, ever, ratify Kyoto without the participation of the major developing countries, then what prospect is there that we could put together a coalition of countries that will ratify, and what danger is there that we would then put the European Union at an economic disadvantage? We would also like to hear from the Commission a clear timetable of its plans for climate change measures next year. I realise that this may mean lifting the veil on the 6th Environment Action Programme, but this would be an opportune moment to clarify the broad lines of what we may expect. Finally, given that we know the causes of climate change, or are fairly clear that we know the causes of climate change, future generations will hardly forgive us for being so slow to deal with it. Governments are afraid to tax fuel for fear of not being re-elected. That is human and perhaps unavoidable. But we could at least devote more resources to developing alternative, renewable energy sources, and to making them into real alternative options soon. How sad it is that last year we actually cut the European Union fund for renewables, SAVE, to which we now devote a fraction of the money spent on subsidising tobacco. Future generations will not forgive us for that, and future generations will be right. – Mr President, I rise as the rapporteur on the draft recommendation from the European Commission on the provision of minimum criteria for environmental inspections. The most important thing  about my report is that I rejected the idea – and the Committee has backed me on this – that it should be a recommendation. I want to make sure that this instrument is in fact a directive. I am absolutely certain that the speech which Mr Marin is now anxiously looking through rejects what I am about to say. It is a very important point and underlies some of the disappointments  that people feel about the European Union in many of our countries. It is based on the perception that we adopt legislation in the European Union which is then not implemented universally throughout the Member States of the European Union. I do not know about my MEP colleagues but certainly this was one of the criticisms made against the European Union during the British version of the European election campaign. It is a situation at the moment where there are currently more than eighty actions pending before the Court of Justice against eleven Member States for infringement of European Union environmental legislation. I know, as rapporteur on the recent directive on landfill, that what is happening is that the European Commission is proposing legislation on the basis that it will be adopted and properly implemented in all the Member States while at the same time the same directorate-general of the European Union knows full well that in some areas of policy no inspectorates at all exist able to see that that legislation is implemented in some Member States of the European Union. The European Commission’s recipe for dealing with this is for inspectors from the various Member States to meet together from time to time to try to improve their techniques and to make that into a recommendation. There is nothing particularly radical about it at all. I and the members of the Environment Committee feel that this is grossly inadequate and that if it is not a directive there will in fact be no impulsion on the Member States which are currently lagging behind to do anything at all. The advantage of transforming the recommendation into a directive is twofold. First of all it creates the momentum for changes to take place under the eventual sanction of financial penalties and secondly, by taking the proposed text of the recommendation, which we have before us as its base, avoids creating a directive which is too heavily prescriptive in detail. People want to see the legislation implemented. They do not want what they call ‘red tape’. This instrument, if transformed into a directive, would mean that we are able to see through the European Commission and through the Members of Parliament whether anybody is actually doing anything. The likelihood is that if we leave it as a recommendation somebody in five years time or so may or may not remember to report to the European Parliament that a recommendation was passed and that very little was done about it. A directive has legal force and we feel that is what is needed. I note that the Greens have proposed an amendment drawing attention to the opinion of the European Parliament that there should be some form of European Union environmental inspectorate. We have to tread very carefully here if we are not to tie up even more red tape around the Member States. It is much better, rather than going for a supranational environment inspectorate with all the difficulty about right of entry, if we have the legislation in place to make sure that the environmental inspectorates in all the Member States (a) exist and (b) are performing their tasks to more or less the same standard. You can only do that through a directorate. A recommendation is grossly inadequate. – Mr President, this is a point of order. It follows from what Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf has said. We notice that the Council is in its place in order to take part in Council questions. Could we have an assurance that the Council will remain in its place at 9 p.m. in order to take part in the debate on the Papayannakis report? We appreciate very much the huge efforts the Finnish presidency has made to work very closely with Parliament. We would therefore appreciate the Presidency being present at 9 p.m. in order to explain to us what happened at the Agriculture Council last night on the issue on which Mr Papayannakis' report is based. Could we please have that undertaking from the Council now, in the interests of the transparency which Finland no doubt wants to be the hallmark of its presidency? – Madam President, I hope you will not rule me out of order, but I have a very specific question to the Commissioner on research. I rather sympathise with my colleagues who think that the way in which the new programmes are going to be organised makes it difficult to see what is actually happening. My specific question is this: one of the things on which research is urgently needed is the efficacy of vaccination in outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease. I do not know – and I conducted some research into this – what is happening as regards such research within the Framework Programme, either the present one or the one which is planned. It would be extremely useful for many people in Europe to know what is being done. I fear very much on the basis of the experience in the United Kingdom that foot-and-mouth disease is not going away and that we may be dealing with it over a long period. European research is therefore absolutely urgent. Mr President, this is a very sensitive issue and Mr Liese and I have crossed swords on it, which is sad because we belong to the same Group. Nevertheless, we are both sincere in our views, opposing though they may be. As Mr Bowe said, this is a very good and much-needed proposal and I welcome it. I also welcome the way in which Mr Liese has been flexible - finally - about the amendments and we now have a chance of getting this legislation on to the statute book as soon as possible. However, this issue of tissues and cells and how we deal with it has raised an interesting question about subsidiarity. One of the reasons why I have been so stirred up about all this is that I have been on the receiving end of a large number of letters from people in my own country who suffer from Parkinson's Disease, chronic heart disease or diabetes, or from their carers in the case of Alzheimer's Disease. People who suffer from these diseases have a life sentence: they do not die, they stay alive and their condition degenerates. They know it is degenerating and they know that research that might help them is being carried on, often involving stem cells. It is their only ray of hope. Let me quote from a letter I received from a constituent in Cornwall. Mr Alan Cole from Liskeard suffers from Parkinson's Disease. He states: 'Rightly or wrongly, each day I listen to the TV or radio hoping to hear that a cure for Parkinson's Disease is on the way. I then become aware of stem cell research and how this might lead to a breakthrough for sufferers like me. A ray of hope - albeit a long way off - could be my miracle. I then discover that people are opposed to this type of research. Who are these people? They cannot possibly suffer with Parkinson's Disease or any other disability.' Who are these people? Well, they are  here, sitting in the rather remote European Parliament. The decision of whether or not stem cell research should go forward and the kind of research which Mr Liese was dealing with in his report would be much better dealt with in the national context than in some rather remote European one. I would also point out that one of the ironies of the situation is that those who suffer from Parkinson's Disease in countries which do not allow this research to be done with stem cells may well benefit from research being done in countries where it is allowed and may, in the end, be very grateful for it. The other issue that came up between us was the question of the payment of donors. There is a particular situation in the United Kingdom regarding the payment of donors. We need to have subsidiarity here so that some countries may go ahead and continue to pay them. We now have a compromise. Mr Blokland has rightly observed that it is a bit of a fudge. However, the text as agreed in Amendment No 69 is an acceptable compromise. That is the way forward. I regret that we have given the impression in this Parliament that we are against stem cell research. In fact we voted for stem cell research to be financed from the EU budget at the last part-session. That has now being reversed by the Council of Ministers. Let us show that in this debate we are very much in favour of a sensible proposal from the Commission on the safety of tissues and cells and we can all agree, including Mr Liese and myself, in wishing this proposal well. . – Mr President, I am pleased that Mr Prodi is here to listen to this. The Environment Committee is very unhappy with the idea of voluntary agreements, as a way of proceeding. We want to see a legal framework for them because we believe that this is far too much like secret law-making. We are not at all happy about the co-regulatory approach – whatever that may be – because we see that as a way of moving away from binding legal instruments, which can sideline democratic control. Mr Prodi will know that we are very happy with the idea of publishing expert advice. We are grateful for what crumbs we receive and would like to see sometimes the authorship of the legislation which we then tear apart. On the question of implementation, we are very worried about the application of the law and I quote "in a way that takes account of regional and local conditions". We feel it would be better to draw up the law in a more flexible way in the first place. If you are going to take account of regional and local conditions, it probably means that you are going to upset the conditions of fair and equal competition. We see a great need for the Commission to devote more energy to the issue of implementation and we see no real need to establish criteria to focus its work in investigating possible breaches of the law. What they need is more staff. Finally, I recommend to Mr Prodi to read the occasional paper produced by the European Policy Centre on regulatory impact analysis. It provides the idea of having a regulatory impact analysis on all new legislation to assess the need for it, to examine alternatives and to examine its overall impact. It would include, and this may not recommend itself to Mr Prodi or his staff, the idea of a specific regulatory assessment office in the office of the Commission Secretary-General. I think that would be a very good idea. – Mr President, the announcement by Mr Cox is very important for Members of the European Parliament in one particular regard. Members will have noticed that he mentioned the idea of impact assessments on amendments proposed by Members of this Parliament. That is a very good idea, but it will come into operation as of January 2004. What we need to know is who is going to do these impact assessments and how the system will work. I invite the President to set up a working party  which must, I suspect, work over the Christmas period  to produce some proposals as to how this system will work. Having had this great signing ceremony, it is up to us to make the agreement work. – Mr President, Mr Whitehead spoke of the Additives Survivors' Network. Sitting here on an evening like this, I think we all belong to Parliament's survivors' network. The trouble with sweeteners in the additives category is that they excite fundamentalist reactions of exactly the same type as genetically modified organisms. Basically, that reaction leads to the position of Mr Lannoye, which really is that he does not want any sweeteners authorised at all at any level and would like them all taken off the market. It is as well to bear that in mind as a background to what he has just said. I would like to comment on two amendments and would like to hear the Commission's view on them. Amendment 4 has been mentioned as requiring a new investigation into aspartame. That illustrates the point about fundamentalism, because this would take place less than a year after the publication of the Scientific Committee for Food's opinion on aspartame. Can the rapporteur tell us – because she did not say this in her speech – why we should doubt the FDA assessment? Does the rapporteur have evidence of the FDA's inadequacy and the inadequacy of its own assessment? If so, she should share the evidence with us, because there is no point in tabling an amendment like this without giving us that information. Another point on Amendment 4: why is the rapporteur against a sweetener which is known apparently as stevia? There is no mention of this in the justification. The amendment seems to be against stevia and wants another investigation of that. What does the rapporteur know that we do not? Can Mr Byrne help us? Secondly, in relation to Amendment 8 – which has been mentioned by more than one Member – it worries me more for the process by which it was agreed than for the substance that it contains. When it was moved in the committee by the rapporteur, the Commission indicated willingness to accept a change from the level of 350 mg/l to 250 mg/l. The Commission gave no substantive reason for this. It almost seemed to us, as Mr Bowis has said, that it was picking a figure out of a hat. As Mr Coleman of DG SANCO stated in a letter he wrote shortly after that: 'A clear majority of experts from the Member States have expressed the position in both the Commission and the Council working parties that the reduction to 350 mg/l is not sufficient, and wish to go further.' That information was not given to the committee. No information was given to the committee! We were certainly not told that Member States' experts thought that 350 mg/l was too high or why they did. Can the Commissioner now take this opportunity to say why the Commission changed its mind – on the basis of which scientific studies? And, indeed, when did it do so, given the fact that it presumably consulted the self-same national experts who were happy with 350 mg/l when it drew up the directive not very long ago? Mr President, this report illustrates the need for Parliament to put in place a systematic approach to impact assessment. In this instance, the rapporteur Mr Kronberger with, as he admits, slim support by two votes from the members of the committee, is proposing to change non-mandatory target values to mandatory limit values for arsenic, cadmium, nickel and benzopyrene. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy informally sought – and this was the first time it was carried out – a cost-benefit analysis. There is no mechanism yet within Parliament for this. The trouble is that it is inevitably incomplete, given the time pressures within which we had to operate. It concludes, and Mr Kronberger has drawn comfort from this, that some of the proposed limit values are achievable – 'feasible' in his words. That is a technical assessment. When the study comes to look at the costs of reaching the target, as the Commissioner said, things are not so rosy. In the study drawn up for Parliament, the precise costs of reaching the limit values that Mr Kronberger wants are not analysed in any systematic way. The study itself says that, for arsenic, some plants might be able to comply but some could not and that 'a more detailed analysis of the reasons why compliance by the other plants will be impossible seems to be justified'. The rapporteur, faced with the impossible, prefers to ignore this stark verdict. In the case of the application of limit values to cadmium, the study again draws attention to the lack of detailed information on the impact of what Mr Kronberger proposes. In the case of limit values for nickel, the study notes that applying limit values on the Kronberger lines would require investments beyond best available techniques. What Mr Kronberger now has to demonstrate is how far what the Commission proposes constitutes a proven danger to human health, how this danger is inadequately dealt with through the provisions of the IPPC Directive and why therefore it is worth pursuing his idea for mandatory limit values irrespective of the cost. In my view, he has completely failed to demonstrate that and all we have is the bald observation in his explanatory statement that 'no limit value can be set below which these substances constitute no risk to human health'. There is no way in which he is capable of going in the direction of what the Commission is proposing. If Parliament is unwise enough, in a first reading compromise or in a second reading – which might be a long way ahead – to endorse what Mr Kronberger wants, then it will only have itself to blame if the Council, or perhaps the Commission, carries out the real, extensive cost-benefit analysis that Mr Kronberger does not have. Arriving at a point where cost-benefit analyses are on our agenda is not a sign of obstructionism, it is a sign that Parliament is at long last moving from seeing itself as a pressure group for the environment and evolving into a responsible part of the legislative process. But with the Kronberger report as it is, we clearly have a long way to go. Mr Kronberger and the Commissioner have mentioned the possibility of a first reading agreement. I cannot see how on earth there can be a first reading agreement between Mr Kronberger's approach and that which, I imagine, the Council has endorsed. I would like to think we could have a first reading agreement, but somebody has got to move and I hope it is Parliament. – Mr President, I cannot think of a worse building in which to hold a debate on climate change. The building is a monument to how humankind has ignored the imperatives of climate change. There is no natural light at all and we demand huge amounts of electricity. Even when we get into the lifts they are black so we have to have the electric light on. However, that being said, I welcome the remarks by the President-in-Office and by the Commissioner and, if I may do so in my humble position, I would like to congratulate her on her maiden speech. The Kyoto Protocol created certain expectations and the impression of the European Parliament is that things have been allowed to go to sleep for far too long after the negotiations on that protocol were concluded. Politicians have partly conspired to hide from the peoples of our Member States that implementing the Kyoto Protocols is going to be painful. It is going to cost them money. It is going to be money well spent, because we need to spend it to protect the environment, but it is going to cost them money. I should like to thank Mrs Wallström for outlining to us what the Commission’s action is going to be. She said at one point, rather blandly I thought, that she was going to propose tangible measures in various sectors. Well, we wait to see what these are going to be. We are glad there is going to be an action programme coming forward in the spring and a Green Paper on emissions trading. When we had our debate in the hearing with the Commissioner about a month or so ago, my committee, the Committee on the Environment, was really rather in two minds as to whether it wanted to see emissions trading measures put forward, but it is worth our while to explore that line. We need to produce an action programme to enable the European Union to live up to what it signed up to in Kyoto. We would like to highlight – and we have highlighted in our resolution – the need for action, particularly in the air transport sector. That is not something which can be left to the transport Commissioner, it is an initiative that should come from Mrs Wallström. Finally I would like to pledge the Commissioner our full support in the Committee on the Environment for whatever it is that she brings forward. Whatever it is, we hope she brings it forward in concrete form and soon. – Mr President, on a point of order: as chairman of the Environment Committee I would just point out that the rapporteur's job is to present the report of the committee. If Mr Papayannakis wants to express a personal opinion, he should have the freedom to do so. What he cannot do is to confuse the two. – Mr President, I would like, on behalf of the committee, to move at least one of the oral questions. First of all, I sympathise with the Commissioner's desire to get better implementation of European Union law. That is something which the committee as a whole is keen to see. I want to quote from an article in the United Kingdom  this last Sunday. The opening paragraph is "The European Commission has told Britain that it will lose up to 200 million pounds in grants for poorer regions unless it implements European Union laws to protect birds and their habitats". I would like to know if the Commission is making these threats and, if it is, whether it feels that it has an entitlement to do so. That is a question which my German colleagues who are moving the other question want to follow up. The Environment Committee is very interested in finding ways of incorporating environmental considerations into other policies. The question is: is this a constitutionally viable way of doing that? What we are exploring here tonight in this crowded House is the question of linkage. Linkage, in other words, using the threat of the withdrawal or withholding of funds to try to get better implementation of legislation in what may sometimes be a rather unconnected sector but in this case is quite a closely connected sector, is one that from time to time European Members of Parliament look at and then veer away from when they realise that it might affect the regions that they represent. That is something which we find reflected in the views not only of some of the German Members here tonight but also in some of my British colleagues. We need to ask to what extent the European Commission is prepared to use the provisions of Articles 12 and 41 of the general regulation on the structural funds to delay granting money where there is inadequate information on the impact of the projects which have applied for the money on the environment. At its worst, we want to avoid the possibility that the aims of the structural funds and the European Union's concern to protect its natural habitats may collide. For instance, you may want to build a motorway across one part of the European Union in order to spend structural fund money and bring jobs to that part of the Union, but should you not be careful if that motorway is being driven through what should have been designated a protected site by the national government? Such possibilities have arisen in the past, especially in relation to major infrastructure projects. We want to avoid that, but we believe that such collisions could result form the failure of the Member States to implement the habitats directive and the birds directive also, and in particular to submit to the Commission by as early as June 1995 a list of sites potentially of Community importance, either as hosting natural habitat types or representing the habitats of animal and plant species of Community importance. We must ask: without such information, how can the Commission be certain that structural fund projects, which are usually large, will not damage sites potentially of European Union-wide importance? Future generations will not forgive us if we allow irreplaceable habitats to be destroyed, whose preservation we actually voted for eight years ago when we adopted our report on the habitats directive and then again in 1997 with the changes to the annex of the directive. The fault lies with those Member States which have failed to observe the directive, and that includes my own. If doubt hangs over their entitlement to structural funds, that is the fault of national governments. That doubt has now fallen over the position of the United Kingdom and its entitlement to Structural Funds because the United Kingdom government has not fully implemented or complied with the provisions of the habitats directive. It is in the power of the United Kingdom government, the German government and other national governments to remove that threat by complying with the habitats and birds directive. In the United Kingdom, structural funding for counties such as Cornwall, which I represent and which has recently been granted Objective 1 status, faces a twin threat from government indolence on this directive and from government incompetence and meanness. Even if the European Commission uses its best efforts in the United Kingdom there is no guarantee that the scrooge-like United Kingdom Chancellor will find matching funding. – Mr President, very briefly, this is a very sorry story. It has been a bad story for some time and it is particularly embarrassing if you are Belgian, of course, or indeed anybody visiting Brussels, because the city of Brussels is one of the cities which has been in breach of this directive for the longest period. My questions to the Commissioner, which she might like to consider answering either now or later at some time, are, first: does she not agree that the situation in this directive proves the need for a much more thorough impact assessment to accompany legislation such as this? I recall that when the urban waste water directive went through, the impact assessment was very feeble and never really gave any figures as to the likely costs. I am told that in the United Kingdom between 1989 and 2005, GBP 26 billion will be spent on upgrading the water system to deal with this directive. That figure was not known at the time when the directive was brought through – not in my country and not in any country; so the question is: can we obtain better, more effective impact assessments? Not just cost-impact assessments in terms of a global figure, but impact assessments as to the disadvantage of doing nothing set against the advantage of doing something. Secondly, I wonder whether I might ask the Commissioner to be very bold, because this really does come down to the question of Mrs Wallström's debates with the Council of Ministers. One of our problems is not only that the Commission does not produce impact assessments, but that the Member States are not honest about their capacity to put in place what they sign up to. What we really need is a system whereby each Member State is asked at a Council meeting whether or not it can comply with the legislation that its ministers are about to sign up to. A very good place to start would be the new directive on packaging waste. I am sure that every Member State wants to send its minister to Brussels to agree to environmental directives; that is just our problem. They agree to far too much; they do far too little; and this waste water directive illustrates the problem. I would like to congratulate Mrs Sornoza on doing this report so well. We had many problems getting the information out of the Commission, for the simple reason that the Commission did not have the information because the Member States had failed to furnish it. Madam President, that was a very good example of a French expression of an inferiority complex vis-à-vis America! I, along with the majority of the British Conservative MEPs and the majority of members of my group, see genetic modification as an interesting and potentially very useful development for mankind and for our environment. Genetic modification of plants and seeds holds out the possibility of better food production in harsh climates and of assuring future food supplies to a fast-growing world population. It also holds out the possibility of reducing artificial agricultural inputs, notably pesticides and herbicides, whose use can cause collateral environmental damage. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has heard no convincing evidence that GM foods are a threat to human health or to biological diversity. If we had, we would have been very reluctant to see these proposals adopted at all. As it is, this debate has been remarkable for the chorus of Greens, Liberal Democrats and Socialists hymning the prospects of GM foods subject to safeguards. Some MEPs may still want to differ from the Council over the question of the thresholds but we should remember here that we are talking about very tiny amounts. The text we adopt will specify that GM presence of more than 0.9% of any ingredient will trigger the labelling requirement. That is a tiny amount. Let us be honest. The 0.9% tolerance level is, in itself, on the very margin of detectibility. There is something bizarre about Europeans putting in place such requirements when consumers in other parts of the world do not insist on them, when there is no health evidence that supports them, and when we are probably legislating for the technically impossible. I have one question for the Commission. If this legislation is adopted, and if some countries are reluctant to lift their moratorium on genetically modified foods, what action will it take? Mr President, the idea that is fundamental to the report that I am bringing forward is that the proposal from the European Commission for a recommendation on this subject should be changed to become a directive and, as you will see from my report, this secured near unanimous backing in the Environment Committee. The members of the committee agreed with me that a recommendation is far too weak an instrument in this instance. I suppose a recommendation is really rather the equivalent of us all moving down into the centre of Strasbourg and attending the cathedral in order to make an act of collective prayer. That really is all that a recommendation is. There is no way in which the European Commission can go back to Member States and say that they have not complied with a recommendation because a recommendation merely says that they may do something, it does not say that they must do something. The Commission is very worried about this report because it recognises that if we persist in insisting on a directive rather than a recommendation, the whole thing may founder in the Council. I recognise the Commission's worries. I did faithfully try in the Environment Committee to get the members to agree to a recommendation rather than a directive. I got a very rude answer from them which I will not repeat to you but which is basically reflected in my report. They want a directive and not a recommendation. And, indeed, if the guidelines on environmental inspection which the Commission is so keen to see survive were incorporated in a recommendation, my committee feels that they will simply be ignored. We want to see a directive which definitely commits the Member States to introduce environmental inspections operating on broadly similar lines. I must underline that what we do not want to see, in case anybody hangs this round my neck, is a supra-national European environment inspectorate: lots of little men and women in blue uniforms with gold stars rushing round the Member States, reporting back to Brussels saying this is wrong or indeed, in the case of Germany, this is right. We do not need that kind of supra-national inspectorate. I believe, and my committee agrees with me, that the primary responsibility for enforcing European Union environment legislation should be firmly lodged where it belongs, with the Member States. We cannot understand the Commission's readiness to propose only the minimum possible. Neglect of European Union environment law forms an alarming background to this proposal. Yesterday was a historic day in the history of the European Union, not, I hasten to add only because of the visit of President Chirac to Strasbourg, but because it was the day of the first report of a fine levied by the European Court of Justice, an actual fine of EUR 20 000 a day on Greece for failure to comply with a European Union environment directive. But it is interesting to note that that case was actually launched thirteen years ago and relates to a directive which dates back even further. At the moment there are currently nine other environment cases which have come back to the Court of Justice for a second time because countries have ignored earlier judgments. There are no less than 157 cases still pending and I regret to have to say that in many cases the European Commission has not been able to act, to bring cases to the Court of Justice, because it does not know what is happening in Member States as the countries concerned have not reported back to Brussels on what they are doing about legislation. One of the reasons that they have not reported is that the countries themselves do not know. Why do they not know? Because they do not have systems of environmental inspection which form the essential raft on which the whole edifice of compliance with European environment law is built. We need the kind of directive that the Environment Committee would like to see. A recommendation will do no good. I hope that the European Commission has the courage, and I mean courage, to accept the European Parliament amendments. I hope that the European Commission has the courage to go into the conciliation process arm in arm with the Parliament against, and it will be against, the Council. I think some members of the Council are really quite wobbly in the direction of a directive rather than a recommendation. The tiny concessions so far offered by the Council lodged in the preamble to this proposal are simply not enough. – The Council is not doing terribly well, is it? That is a very disappointing reply. I was asked to raise this question by the Penzance branch of Amnesty International, which has taken under its wing a particular prisoner of conscience, Thet Win Aung. I mention his name because he is a very good example of what is happening in Burma. He is a student leader who was recently sentenced to 52 years of imprisonment, and this has now been increased to 59 years. He was arrested in October 1998. His place of detention is not known and his family is being put under terrible pressure. My question to the Council is, given this awful background, is it willing to consider putting pressure upon Burma to declare a total amnesty for such political prisoners and, very much to the point, has the Council ever discussed the possibility of economic sanctions against Burma until it adopts a more humane policy? – I am sorry to delay things, Madam President, but there is another possibility. I understand that the Fisheries Council will be meeting tomorrow and that our opinion on the Papayannakis resolution will go to the Fisheries Council. Now, it is possible for the Fisheries Council, with some goodwill on their part, to take into account our amendments and to adopt the legal text with our amendments. I suggest that we vote on the Papayannakis report and then you select the most poisonous pen that you have in your armoury and you write on behalf of the Parliament to the Council with the expectation that the Fisheries Council will not simply nod through what was agreed yesterday but will take our amendments into account. – Madam President, I was one of the five Members of Parliament who went to Monterrey and I want to put it on record that what Mr. Nielson did before the Monterrey Conference was extremely good. He persuaded the 15 Member States of the European Union to make a commitment that by 2006 their contribution for development finance will be 0.33% of GDP. Many Member States are currently contributing much less than this. This achievement embarrassed the United States, because it realised that its contribution is very small indeed. The European Union gives USD 25 billion: it is the largest donor in the world. The United States gives USD 10 billion. This is a very small sum when you think that the United States has given its military establishment USD 100 billion since September last year, and that is why President Bush promised a further USD 5 billion in development finance by 2006. That would bring the US contribution up to USD 15 billion, which is still very low indeed when you think that people like Bill Gates give USD 1 billion as personal donations. Because Mr Fischler is here, I would like to say that EU agricultural subsidies are killing the poor farmers in the Third World. He knows this and I know he is in favour of persuading Member States to do something about the food mountains that we create. This was widely discussed in Monterrey with the International Fund for Agricultural Development. I and my colleagues met with the President of IFAD. It was made very clear that unless we invest this development finance in the rural economies of poor countries and boost their agricultural production, we will have a breeding ground for deprivation, terrorism and internal conflicts. This is because these are the people, the majority of them living in rural areas, who are too poor to grow their own food and too poor to buy the EU's surplus food. I would like to make one other point about HIV, AIDS, TB and malaria. The Monterrey conference did not discuss these issues at great length, and did not commit itself to allocating funding to them in a special category. – Mr President, it is a great pleasure to speak  on Palestine. It is extremely important and it is a subject in which I have been very interested  for many years. Mrs Morgantini has produced an excellent report which I and my group support and the two amendments are very important because they ask for an annual report and for access to the sites and information on the aspects of the financing. I should like to raise a few points. One is that we are helping 3.5 million refugees. I accept that these are people in refugee camps now and I hope that the European Union will play a very positive role in helping them to rehabilitate once they come across from neighbouring countries into Palestine for resettlement. I hope the European Commission will take the initiative, with the close cooperation of Parliament, in being more of an active player in the Middle East and not take a back seat and let the Americans lead. When we look at the aid we are giving, EUR 40 million, that is not a lot of money. I accept it is quite a large part of the EUR 120 million that are being given and 85% of our budget of about EUR 40 million per annum is for education, which I consider the right way forward. We are helping to educate half a million children. I hope that this proposal will be acted upon quickly because as Mrs Morgantini pointed out there is urgency, teachers are losing their jobs or not being employed and education and medical help is essential. I hope that the Commission will do its best to speed this on. Mrs Morgantini has really covered this subject extensively. I do not want to waste Parliament’s time and I thank the President for giving me the opportunity to speak on this subject. – Firstly, it is a great pleasure to have the Commissioner here. I have been listening to the debate on the television in my office and I heard your answers to my colleagues. I want to follow up on Mr Fatuzzo's question because it is in my report on information and communication technology and its impact on SMEs. I hope you will agree with one of the recommendations I made in the report, which is that there are many older people who have retired at 55-plus who would be delighted to return to employment if there was some financial incentive for them to do so. Information and communication technology is an area where we could use them, if there were financial incentives to train them. Afterwards, if they were working, it would be important not to tax them on their income because they have a pension as well. This would have two impacts. Firstly, it would allow older people to work and still use their skills. Therefore their disposable incomes would have an impact on rural economies because they would tend to spend that income. Secondly, we would not be so dependent on imported labour. Obviously a high birth rate is a good thing, but it would take years before this was reflected in the labour force. My recommendation would provide a quick solution. I should like to hear the Commissioner's view on it. – Mr President, over one hundred years ago, European colonial powers divided tribal lands in Africa to establish national boundaries. African countries inherited the legacy of tribal conflict as major tribes sought to dominate national politics. Some examples are the Afars and Issas in Djibouti, the Kikuyu and Luo in Kenya and the Hutu and Tutsi in Rwanda and Burundi. I believe the EU has to focus on how the ruling elite, the Tutsis in Burundi, can be persuaded to reconcile and cooperate with the majority Hutu to achieve peace. The EU must insist that neighbouring countries do not interfere in Burundi and EU aid to them should be conditional on their cooperation. This Parliament and the European Commission can help Burundi and this resolution is a very good step in that direction. – Mr President, Hutus of Bantu origin form the majority tribe in Burundi with a population of 6 million. The Tutsis of Nilotic origin are the minority tribe, but they dominate the government and the army. Such tribal polarisation as we often see in Africa has been a major factor in the internal conflict, not only in Burundi but in neighbouring states. In 1993 Burundi's Hutu President was assassinated and within a month over 100,000 civilians were killed. A further 150,000 civilians have been killed since then. More than half a million are refugees in Tanzania's refugee camps to this day. The Democratic Republic of Congo has experienced similar conflict and almost 2 million civilians have been killed there or are missing over the last two to three years. In the Horn, East and Central Africa covering 12 countries, there are 20 million displaced persons, displaced from their homes and their villages. These people were poor before. They are even poorer today. They have no education, no access to health care, no employment and no shelter. They depend totally on the World Food Programme for their food and they fear those who run the refugee camps where they live. It is not surprising, therefore, that these refugee camps are breeding grounds for disease, discontent and disorder. Young men and women are lured by the warlords to join their unruly gangs. These innocent and desperate people, who were ordinary civilians before, probably farmers, are easily persuaded to train and be armed to support the greed and power struggle of the warlords. The Lusaka and Arusha peace accords have failed to end the violence and internal conflict. Repatriation of refugees is not satisfactory as the people are simply afraid to return to villages devastated, overrun and terrorised by the terrorists or the warlords. How can we allow these displaced millions, these desperate refugees, to live in their camps as beggars for life. How can we extinguish the fires of conflict and civil war in these developing countries? Containers full of medicines, tents, food, blankets and other such things bring temporary relief, but this is not enough. We must be more active and rethink our strategy. We must first of all give the poor a stake in their rural economies so that they may own their own land and have an opportunity to build their lives. Secondly, we must give them the appropriate technology – third world technology – which they can then use to start local enterprises to break this cycle of dependency on us. We must rethink our strategy and reassess the quality of people that we have in place as our ambassadors and representatives, their experience, and see how we can perhaps use local experts with international reputation and competence to advise us, to act on our behalf, to use the limited resources that we have to its best effectiveness. We must embark on this with great urgency. I have great confidence in Commissioner Patten to lead this, and Commissioner Nielson, and I hope that they will get together and make sure that the EU's next decade is much better than the last 40 years, a period in which, I consider, much time and resources were wasted. Madam President, the list of objectives for NEPAD is very long: it includes many different concepts such as conflict prevention, democracy and regional economic integration. The report by my friend and colleague, Mr Bébéar, is an excellent one. However, I should like to highlight that if, as he says, all these objectives were to be fulfilled, it would cost EUR 64 billion per annum. I do not believe that kind of money will be forthcoming. As the last speaker said, whilst there is corruption, mismanagement, fraud and bad governance, we have to tackle the problem of poverty in Africa. If NEPAD is a solution put forward by African governments, then there may be a chance. We have examples of bad management and fraud: we have only to look to the news a week ago when Parmalat lost EUR 10 billion in Italy – a sophisticated, modern, western country! So it is not surprising that there will be difficulties in Africa. I do not condone them; I have always objected to and stamped on corruption wherever it is, especially in Africa. We need to encourage NEPAD, especially the conception, growth and sustenance of small- and medium-sized enterprises in Africa, owned and run by Africans using the natural resources of their countries and employing their own people, with the appropriate training and help that we can give them. That is the engine for NEPAD – the economic engine that can bring about development. First, it must be formed in their countries, support the regional economy and then go beyond to EU and world markets. That is what NEPAD was conceived to be. The roof may be the African Union, the walls may be the pan-African Parliament, but the foundation of economic growth and the eradication of poverty in Africa has to be something like NEPAD. We ought to support it. Madam President, when I wrote my report on HIV/AIDS two years ago, I was not sure what the outcome would be. However, I am delighted that the EU, the Commission and this Parliament have done quite a lot, as many speakers, including the Commissioner, have said. However, I want you to focus on an African woman who is suffering and dying from HIV/AIDS, TB or malaria. If she were to watch CNN what does she see and hear? She sees the conflicts in Iraq, Congo, Afghanistan, Burundi, Zambia, Zimbabwe and so on. She sees loss of life, billions of euro wasted, including the EUR 75 billion that President Bush has pledged for Iraq's reconstruction. This is essential, but it is a lot of money in relation to the US commitment of EUR 15 billion over 5 years for HIV/AIDS, of which 10 000 people are dying every day. So, this lady sees terrorism in Istanbul, New York and Saudi Arabia. She sees a natural disaster in Iran – 20 000 people dead, a town flattened – and she says to herself 'I have TB, and yet I do not have ten dollars or ten euro to cure it. I am dying'. How does she feel when she sees all these billions of euro that we spend to renovate buildings that have been destroyed and which are then destroyed again? The pledges – which are very worthy indeed – for the reconstruction of Iraq made by countries like the United States amount to EUR 75 billion. What is their contribution to the fight against HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria? That is where the European Union has been tremendous, very generous and is showing the way for the rest of the world. I also look to the oil-rich countries. What are they doing? How much are they contributing? If not, why not? What about Japan and others? If we are to address this issue we have to be serious and put it into context, because the people who are suffering are poor, sick, oppressed, not free to work and live in harsh conditions. They have no water or electricity, they have no tools to till their land, and nor are they near the sea. What chance do they have? That is why it is important to  EU aid and to go back to the basics of life such as water and access to energy, because these people are already spending their whole day looking for water and firewood to cook their next meal. I know the Commissioner is committed. He is brilliant. I know this Parliament is behind him. Let us go for it and make sure that this year and beyond we can achieve what we set out to do. . – Mr President, a family in a mud hut in rural Africa without access to clean water, electricity, hospital or community centre is simply devastated when it discovers that a member of the family is suffering from any one of the three diseases HIV/AIDS, TB or malaria. The patient has no access to a clinic nearby that can test, diagnose and treat him and, even if there is one, he cannot afford the treatment. The patient's family is in crisis, not only because of illness but also because it has to find the money for treatment that will include the cost of transport and additional nutritional requirements. This is the reality! Therefore, my objective was to produce a report with recommendations that would support a programme of action that is possible to fund, practical to implement, and most beneficial to those who are the poor victims of such infections. Such a report requires wide consultation with colleagues from all political groups, the European Commission, the pharmaceutical industry, UN agencies, NGOs and civil society, so that a consensus based on facts can be achieved and appropriate action taken to target the problem, making most efficient use of limited resources. I had that wide consultation, and I want to thank all colleagues who were so helpful, in particular Dr Fransen and her team and Commissioner Nielson's department. Dr Fransen has worked in Africa herself, so she was a mine of information. I also want to thank all colleagues from all political parties, especially in the Committee on Development and Cooperation, related committees and, of course, the secretariats, who were extremely helpful. The report promotes the following: a global fund financed by G8, the EU, oil-rich nations and others to finance access to and supply of medication and treatment; a global strategy to implement a programme of action to treat and prevent communicable diseases; tiered pricing of medicines from the pharmaceutical industry to ensure wide access to treatment; support for health infrastructure to scan, diagnose, treat and monitor patients, as supply of medicines in itself is inadequate; use of incentives – both financial and legislative – to enhance research and development to produce new medicines and vaccines by both industry and the public sector; the European Commission to work closely with the governments of developing countries, UN agencies, NGOs and civil society to implement the programme. It promotes appropriate future legislation to give more flexibility in the implementation of TRIPS to encourage transfer of technology for local manufacture of essential medicines wherever this is viable. There are four paragraphs in the report which require minor changes because of errors or difficulty in implementation. My intention in paragraph 14 was to ensure that if we are to find the lowest prices for medicines for poor countries and for the patients in these countries, we must ensure that the developing countries do not impose import duty and taxes on imports of essential medicines. Developed countries – the EU and the USA – do not impose export taxes when they export medicines from their countries. So there is a mistake in paragraph 14. I want to make an oral amendment, which I hope colleagues will accept. It should read: "Calls on developing countries to abolish tariffs and taxes on imports of essential drugs and equipment in order to make health care more affordable;". This paragraph really refers to import taxes in developing countries. I also want to make an oral amendment to paragraph 9 to replace "10%" with the word "appropriate", because you cannot dictate to the European Commission and the Committee on Budgets what exact percentage of money should be spent – there are budget lines, which are already agreed in other committees and in other reports. So "appropriate" is the word, rather than "10%". In paragraph 20, I would like to propose an oral amendment, which I hope Members of this House will support, to delete the second part which begins "in which a doubling of the budget ....". Again, the same problem applies: you cannot in a report like this put a fixed percentage when other committees have agreed budget lines and the Commission has budget appropriations fixed by the Council of Ministers for doing the job it is doing. These are minor changes. Finally, I wish to clarify the issue of the patent life of medicines, as some colleagues have expressed concern. A new drug costs about USD 500 m to research, test and bring to market. Unless this sum is recoverable, nobody will invest in research and the development of drugs for diseases of the poor. No government can finance such investment so we must encourage the pharmaceutical industry to continue to finance research. Their patent is in any case irrelevant after seven or ten years as new drugs are developed and doctors will change a treatment regime, thereby precipitating the fall in price of that medicine still under patent. The real trick – and this is what I have been trying to do in this report – is to secure tiered pricing for all medication – new and old – so that the poor patients benefit whilst the industry continues to pay for research and development. My Amendment No 1 addresses this problem and I have inserted the word "review" to replace the word "reduce", in order to cooperate with colleagues concerned about this issue. So I am not throwing it out of the window, I am asking us to review it in WTO. If there is justification for amending it, so be it. I hope that this House will give me full support for this report, which I did not try to make political. It concerns something that we must do for the poor so that we can tell the world, especially the poor, that the European Union is concerned about their problems and will take the lead in fighting disease and poverty throughout the world. .  Mr President, first of all thank you to Commissioner Liikanen, it is a pleasure to see you here. I always think of him as the Commissioner for innovation who is friendly to SMEs, and I have certainly found him to be both of those, so we are very lucky to have him. The Lisbon European Council dream for the EU to be the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010 cannot be realised unless we stimulate and I mean  SMEs. SMEs drive economic growth; they train people with poor skills; they identify local needs and respond by producing or processing the products required. They create employment, wealth and security for the local community. What are the hindrances, difficulties and bottlenecks facing SMEs in the EU? Why are they not growing as fast as those in the USA? Excessive red tape, high direct and indirect taxation, expensive and inadequate access to loans and grants, insufficient allowance for 'upskilling' workers and a lack of sponsored apprenticeships. Papas and Mamas in Europe in their fifties and sixties own and manage their businesses traditionally. They are reluctant to invest in new technology because, firstly, they suspect that the investment will not offer sufficient advantage. Secondly, they do not understand the scope and function of new technology in increasing productivity and expanding sales. Thirdly, they are concerned about security of supply, quality, payment and legal liability. My report has analysed the problems facing SMEs and offers a programme of action to stimulate them, so that they can compete globally. I would like Commissioner Liikanen to take very careful note of this summary, which is what I think the EU needs to do and do now. -Review existing regulation of the e-economy and cut drastically whatever burdens small businesses. -Reduce the administrative burdens on businesses by simplifying data collection, especially tax collection. -Cut red tape, especially for self-employed people. -Tackle on-line security issues by reinforcing the dependability and reliability of networks used by enterprises. -Establish easy and affordable access to legal advice. -Encourage cross-border trade to ensure a European e-economy. That is very important. -Use benchmarking to promote and establish best practice, to integrate SMEs in the e-economy. -Allow Member States to offer low interest loans and tax incentives to support SMEs. I know Commissioner Monti might have a problem with that but I think it is essential. -Establish close cooperation between business, the educational sector and government agencies in order to close the IT skills gap. -One of the most important aspects is to offer financial incentives to the unemployed and the elderly, those who are retired. I am not asking Member States to change their rules on retirement, but I am asking for the EU to consider that people who are already retired should have financial incentives to train and acquire skills. When they work using those skills they should not be taxed at all, that is my preference. You might wish to impose a nominal tax, but preferably no tax at all. This actually reduces the import of labour, and also immediately pumps in money to people who are likely to spend their money in rural areas and therefore boost rural economies. -To offer financial incentives to technical support companies to allow SMEs affordable access. This is one of the weakest things that we have in the EU: people are quite happy to buy equipment and technology, but where is the technical support if anything goes wrong? It is very expensive and very unreliable and we need to offer financial incentives in that respect. I hope we will soon have every EU citizen wearing what I would like to call the ‘Hand C’ not a ‘PC’, a wristwatch that is a combination of a PC, mobile phone and an LCD screen that will enable us to communicate audiovisually, process data, buy, sell and pay by voicemail, watch any sport and listen to our favourite music. Technology can offer us this today, Commissioner Liikanen, let us produce more with ease, let us have less stress and more fun. Mr President, corrupt and ruthless dictators continue to exploit and impoverish many countries in Africa. Decades of international aid, especially EU aid, have been undone and destroyed. Consequently millions suffer from avoidable diseases or are maimed and shot. The EU must condemn these dictators and it must be ready to act promptly. In cases like Liberia, where ECOWAS and Nigeria have taken the initiative. I hope the EU will do more than just provide the EUR 15 million that it is has pledged. I am pleased, of course, that the EU is involved and I want to ensure that this Parliament is aware of the continuing problems in Africa, because it is European taxpayers who in the end become impatient if we are seen not to take appropriate action. I hope Commissioner Nielson will do his best and keep Parliament informed, because we need to show that Liberia can recover and can perhaps be a model for other African countries. We need to build it anew and ensure there is prosperity and peace. – Mr President, Mauritania is a vast country and almost 90% of its land is desert. Water is a scarce resource and its 2.2 million people are poor and live in rural areas. It depends on its exports of iron ore and fishing – just two things. I was invited in May of this year to lead a small delegation of MEPs and visit Mauritania, which I did. I spent a week with parliamentarians, all the ministers, President Taya, civil society and NGOs. We travelled up and down the country – a week is a long time to be in Mauritania. Mrs Sudre and Mrs Langenhagen came with me. I was impressed by what President Taya has done over the years in a country as poor as this. I am astonished – and I want to embarrass him and his government, which I shall do at the ACP Conference when their delegates come – that there is now this sad case of locking up the opposition. There is no reason for it, there is no need. He is quite strong, he is quite popular. He has done well. He can do well without locking up his opposition. As far as slavery is concerned, it is actually banned in Islam and Mauritania is a Muslim country. There are Moors, there are blacks and various mixtures of these two. I saw their lifestyle. I did not see any slaves, though that is not to say they are not there. What I shall certainly do is embarrass the government of Mauritania at the ACP Conference to make sure this practice does not continue and the opposition is allowed to operate freely so that there is accountability of the ministers. It is better for the president of the country and the people of the country. – Mr President, almost all ordinary citizens of Israel wish to live in peace in their own country. They wish to have a country with secure borders and normal diplomatic relations with all its Arab neighbours. How can we help extinguish the fire that has devastated Palestine and reduced the people to a life of humiliation, fear and deprivation of the basic amenities of life? Jewish people, Muslims and Christian Palestinians worked and lived together for centuries before Israel was established. The Jewish people dreamt about their own country and they got it, and rightly so. The Palestinians, both Muslims and Christians, dream and wish to have their country as well and they will not rest until they have a secure and viable state based on a just and fair settlement. How can the EU help? Let us stop being polite and politically correct. To my delight today is the first time in my two and a half years as an MEP that I have heard Members of this House address this topic with such confidence. We have been gagged for all this time. Let us spell out what is needed for such a fair and just settlement; things that we all believe in but are too afraid to say. Firstly, Israel must have the right to exist with a secure border and it must be fully recognised as a state by all its neighbours. Secondly, Israel must respect international law and its own national laws, as well UN Security Council resolutions. Thirdly, Israel must accept neutral international observers under UN sponsorship to facilitate a ceasefire. Ordinary people, Jews, Muslims and Christians, are fed up with their politicians. They want peace now. Let us help them with courage and confidence and say clearly what most of us privately believe, that for Palestine to be a viable state, to allow that state to take back the millions of refugees, there is only one border and that is the border as it was before 1967. That is what Israel has to pull back to. Until that happens there will be no peace in the Middle East and that brings the terror, fear and difficulties that we now see in the European Union. It is time that we spelt out the way it should be. – Commissioner Nielson's department have produced an excellent communication and programme for action for communicable infectious diseases, HIV Aids, TB and malaria. It is not possible for the EU to fund that programme alone and therefore I would like to ask, is he going to take the lead in initiating and establishing a global fund in cooperation with the UN and other agencies so that this can be done? I am the rapporteur for that report and I hope this Parliament will put it on fast track so that it can be debated before the UN international conference on the subject in the third week of June. I saw a lot of time wasted this afternoon. This is an important subject and those responsible in this House should put that on the agenda for fast track debate, so Members of this House can debate it and the European Parliament's view can go to that conference for consideration. . – Mr President, my report is about the European Coal and Steel Community and how that fits in with Mrs Stauner's report and the discharge. We have decided to give the discharge on three conditions, and the conditions are clearly spelt out. We hope that by 15 August those concerned will give us the information that is requested. What I find extraordinary is that EUR 2 billion are being managed by this vestige – the last remainder of the European Coal and Steel Community, which, of course, was very important historically but is not important any more. It is being wound up and it is remarkable that such an instrument should continue with that budget and 145 staff. I believe such an instrument should be wound up as quickly as possible so that it is incorporated in perhaps a reformed European Investment Bank: a European Investment Bank that is transparent and accountable. Such investments can and should be made by professional banks rather than the little outfit that we have at the moment. The number of people employed for the amount of money being invested is again quite disproportionate. I am hoping that this can be wound up speedily and incorporated in either the EIB or the European Investment Fund, because that would be a better way of using the money and resources. This is for the social and research fund, but again these objectives could be better addressed by a bank that would ask other banks to manage investments so that we have the highest return. I hope that the three conditions, the conditional discharge and the obligations on those concerned to address these conditions will be taken seriously. Far too often in the past we have found that promises have been made and not kept. So I hope that the answers will be given to Parliament and to the Committee on Budgetary Control. I think that is about all I need to say. On that basis I recommend to this House a discharge. – Mr President, does a peasant suffering from AIDS have the right to access medicine and treatment that he cannot afford? Does a child born in poverty have the human right to receive basic education and appropriate vaccines to protect him from killer diseases? Does a peasant farmer devastated by natural disasters such as drought, pests and soil erosion have the right to our assistance? Do millions of people living in misery for political reasons in isolated countries like Palestine and Iraq have any rights? What do we mean when we talk about human rights? I urge every colleague concerned with human rights to visit, unannounced and informally, any peasant in any poor country and ask him about our views on human rights, political freedom, economic freedom, religious freedom, free access to education and health services. That peasant will look at you in bewilderment and plead: "All I need is a supply of fresh water to my house. All I need is a source of energy so that I can light my house and cook the next meal". Internal conflict and civil war resulting in violation of human rights will continue to impoverish the poor until we help them to do the following. Firstly, to have a stake in their rural economies. They need to own their own land, their home and their farm. And secondly, to acquire the technology to break the cycle of dependency on us and seize the opportunity to be self-sufficient, self-reliant through their own local enterprise. When the poor have an economic stake, then civil society and democracy will take root. These people will see the need for law and order and political representation. Then you will see the courts replacing the bullet – and that is when we will see human rights. – Mr President, Mrs Rühle has produced an excellent report on this subject. I am the newly appointed rapporteur on the EIB, the European Central Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I agree with the amendments proposed by Mrs Rühle as they express clearly real concerns about the EIB's transparency, efficacy, accountability and conformity with the Community's objectives and policies. I will address briefly each of these concerns. Firstly, there is widespread concern about the EIB's transparency. My predecessor from the Socialist Group, Mr Freddy Blak, Mrs Rühle, the author of the report, many Members of Parliament and the Court of Auditors have all expressed their opinion about the lack of transparency in the operations of the EIB. Even the World Bank and the East European NGO called Bankwatch have publicly stated this view. Secondly, let me turn to efficacy. Mrs Rühle states the need to evaluate the effectiveness of EIB operations. I, as the new rapporteur for the Bank, requested Sir Brian Unwin, the President of the EIB, for an initial meeting to set out a framework to assess the efficiency of the Bank. I am sorry to report to this House that Sir Brian has not even bothered to ring me or arrange to meet despite numerous telephone reminders. Such disregard for this new European Parliament will erode, yet again, public respect and confidence in the European Union. Thirdly, what about public accountability? In May 1999, my predecessor, Mr Blak, Vice-President of CoCobu, asked 26 specific questions about alleged fraud, mismanagement, corruption and cover-up – I mean cover-up – in the Bank's activities, including in treasury operations, over the period 1993-1998. The questions are specific, detailed and relevant. They require a written response from the Bank. I have asked Sir Brian for such a response but, once again, he has chosen to ignore my request. I have been told by Mr Martí, one of his vice-presidents, that the EIB is owned by the Member States and, as such, according to the Treaty, it is not an EU institution obliged to respond to the European Parliament, the Court of Auditors or OLAF. Only matters relating to loans to non-EU countries where the Community gives loan guarantees can be discussed with Members of Parliament. I ask this House, what are the Member States? Are they not the governments of the people who live, work and pay taxes in the countries that we call Member States? Are we not, as the only elected representatives of the people of these Member States, expected to safeguard the interests of the people who live in the Member States? Does the Treaty specifically forbid the European Parliament from having access to information? Certainly not. Therefore, if the EIB is confident that it functions well and has nothing to hide, why is Sir Brian Unwin, its president, denying access to Parliament, the Court of Auditors and OLAF? Clearly, the Treaty needs to be amended to specify such access in bold print. I suggest that those involved in the IGC take note. Clearly there is support for this as Ecofin, in its meeting on 8 October in Tampere, reinforced its previous criticisms of the EIB's management and performance by directing it to open its doors to OLAF and the Court of Auditors. I have seen the decision taken by the EIB concerning this directive and according to paragraphs 5 and 6 of the decision taken by the Bank it will not open its doors to OLAF. It is about time this House told the Bank to open its doors to OLAF and the Court of Auditors. – Mr President, the Democratic Republic of Congo is neither democratic nor a republic. It is a country with fertile land, vast mineral wealth, populated by people who are poor, sick and starving. These people have been plundered by cruel and corrupt dictators who continue to enrich themselves. Soldiers from neighbouring countries such as Rwanda and Congo continue to loot, rape and kill civilians at random. Villages and towns are destroyed. Over 2 million people have been killed and 1 million people live in fear in refugee camps. The UN passed resolution 1376 on 7 November 2001. It advocates disarmament and demobilisation, repatriation, resettlement and reintegration of armed groups. These measures are essential. How are they going to be implemented? Who will lead this action? The EU, the USA or the UN? Or will this be yet another UN resolution for filing in some dusty cabinet. Last month I attended in Ghana a conference of African politicians. A veteran politician from DRC was there. He had had great difficulty in leaving the DRC, and this is what he asked me: how can African countries like the DRC be free from governments run by crooked dictators? I could not answer. He asked a second question. Do we need to breed terrorists who will attack Europe and the USA to precipitate effective action like in Afghanistan? I could not answer that either. Let us make sure that we take action before poor people become so desperate. – Mr President, misery and death in Ethiopia were on our screens four years ago. The cameramen left but misery and death did not leave Ethiopia. Starvation and death continue today. The population of Ethiopia pray for rain. Sadly they see only a rain of bullets. People crave water, food and medicine. Sadly all they see is their land and their homes blown to pieces by the tanks and planes our governments supply to the Ethiopian and Eritrean politicians. These politicians are hungry for power: politicians who argue over territorial boundaries whilst their people die. These politicians fly their national flags on their parliaments and presidential palaces, but sadly the only flag their people see is the flag of death. Famine, disease and death remain the hallmarks of these countries. Hunger for power must not be allowed to override the hunger for life. Mr Patten has listed a number of measures the EU has taken to help. Such help has been received with gratitude, but let us put it into perspective. Sixteen million people are starving today; 15 000 tonnes have been delivered. I accept the difficulties of the logistics but that means less than a kilo per person. No time limit is given, in other words it is a kilo that has to last forever. These measures are palliative. They only relieve the symptoms; they do not cure the disease. The EU must take the lead in curing this serious problem and the only way to do it is firstly to stop arms reaching all the warring parties and make sure we use our influence with those who supply them; and secondly teach these people how to grow food and harvest, store, package and process it so that they can be independent and self-reliant, not beggars for life. – Mr President, there are 4 500 farmers of British, Dutch, German and Greek origin who own 8.3 million hectares of land in Zimbabwe. Nine white farmers and 360 black farm workers have been killed in the chaos over the last few months. Thousands of black farmers have lost their jobs and their homes and the farms are unworkable. Zimbabwe depends on the success of agriculture and the contribution of these farmers is vital to sustain its economy. There is money available from the United Kingdom government under the Lancaster House Agreement and there is a willingness among the white farmers to give up 80% of their land to settle the black families. Mugabe must accept such a solution. In 1970, Tanzania nationalised sisal farms, businesses and real estate, killing its private sector. The same happened in Uganda in 1972, when the Asians were expelled, and those two countries' economies have been bankrupt ever since. I sympathise with the farmers and farm workers of Zimbabwe, as my family was a victim of similar confiscation and nationalisation. My family has lived in Tanzania for 166 years, much longer than many white farmers in Zimbabwe. We bought land from Deutsch-Ostafrika in 1876 and I still have a title deed. We lost land and property through nationalisation without compensation and I know what that means. I share the grief of the silent black majority in Zimbabwe, who continue to live in poverty. The poorest in Zimbabwe do not want to shoot, kill, loot and burn crops. They are hungry and unemployed. They need food, education, health, employment and shelter. It was the vision and quality like Nelson Mandela that at last set an example for Africa that reconciliation, cooperation, democracy and respect for all people, irrespective of their colour, is the only way to govern a developing country the only way to help the poorest to be free of poverty and disease. President Mugabe must follow Mr Mandela and accept reconciliation and democracy, allow the white farmers to thrive and continue farming and accept that Zimbabwe belongs to the people of Zimbabwe and nobody has the right to deprive them of a decent life based on peace and democracy. – Mr President, Iraq was at war with Iran from 1980 to 1989. During this time the USA and EU supported Iraq since we perceived Iran as the real threat to the Middle East. Iraq invaded Kuwait on 2 August 1990. This was wrong and unacceptable. The UN responded by passing Resolution 661 to impose sanctions on Iraq. The UN action was justified. The USA and Britain imposed a no-fly zone in April 1991. In 1994, Iraq recognised the territorial integrity of Kuwait. From 1991 to 1997, UN inspectors – UNSCOM – systematically and comprehensively inspected, destroyed and verified Iraq's capacity to produce weapons of mass destruction. The UN representative reported to the UN in 1997 that UNSCOM's work had covered virtually everything about Iraq. In 1998 the International Atomic Energy Agency declared that Iraq no longer had a nuclear capacity. The oil for food programme started in 1996 has been excessively bureaucratic and incompetent, resulting in long delays in procuring essential medicines and food supplies. Of the USD 28 billion worth of oil revenue over three years, only USD 7 billion has been utilised for imports and USD 12 billion remains frozen in a bank in New York. If the sanctions were intended to destroy Iraq's military capacity, then they have done the job. If the sanctions were intended to dislodge Saddam Hussein, this has not still been achieved after ten years. However, ten years of sanctions have caused enormous suffering and hardship for the 22 million people of Iraq. High infant mortality, decreasing life expectancy, increased incidence of cancer and treatable diseases, continue to devastate the social fabric of a country that once enjoyed a high standard of living. The intellectual embargo has deprived doctors, teachers and other professionals of the advances in science and technology. I believe the European Union must reassess its position in helping those suffering acute hardship. There are six EU States – Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece – represented diplomatically in Iraq today. These diplomats share the view of the UN Office in Iraq, WHO, Red Cross, and other NGOs that the EU can, through its diplomacy, achieve a breakthrough. Our parliamentarians and Commission officials should go on fact-finding missions to Iraq to meet members of the Iraqi Parliament, EU diplomats, international agencies and NGOs. Such dialogue will help to establish the facts as they are today and help identify how this deadlock can be broken so that sanctions can be lifted for non-military suppliers. I hope that this House will vote in favour of this resolution. – Mr President, Djibouti has a population of half a million comprising two Muslim tribes, the Issas and the Afars. Djibouti's national assets are its port and its strategic position in the Horn of Africa. Western powers, including France, exploit its strategic position. Ethiopia uses its port. Trapped in the conflict between the Afars and the Issas and the problems of the neighbouring countries, and with the desires and strategic policies of countries which dominate its strategic position, it is caught in a situation where it is desperately poor and, of course, undemocratic. The leader of Djibouti today is doing things that we absolutely abhor. The Afars' leader is in jail, without trial, with his supporters in abominable conditions. He is going blind. Such conditions exist in Djibouti today that we really have to look at our policy because it is part of Lomé, it receives aid from the EU and one of our Member States, France, is very strategically placed and has considerable influence in Djibouti. This sort of dictatorship, this sort of terror of civilians and abuse of resources by unnecessary expenditure on arms for a country of that size is totally inexcusable. It ought to be like the Singapore or Hong Kong of Africa. It should really be a very prosperous place. So I hope that you will all support this resolution condemning the abominable conditions of prisoners and civilians in Djibouti. – Mr President, in a historical context the European Union is a baby. In its infancy it questioned the eligibility of British membership and rejected its application to join. At that time many thought Greece or Spain – I suppose these days all that is forgotten – would never qualify for membership. Over the last ten years we have witnessed huge changes. Membership has expanded to 15 Member States, Parliament is beginning to acquire political power and will, I hope, cease to be a mere talking-shop. Turkey’s application has to be judged on the basis of the following criteria: Turkey’s strategic geographic and economic position and how this impacts on Europe; Turkey’s crucial role as a member of NATO and how this membership could be sustained if the door is permanently shut in its face; Turkey, which as a future responsible member of the EU could be the fire extinguisher for the fires of discontent that burn in the Middle East and beyond. I appreciate the fears of those who worry about Turkey’s Islamic population. The reality is that there are large numbers of Turks living in Germany and France, large numbers of Muslims – including Turkish Cypriots – who live in Britain. The populations of Kosovo and Albania are predominantly Muslim. The religious complexion of Turkey is a matter of historical accident, like Spain under the Moors for a few hundred years. Turkey’s culture is distinctly European and its religious complexion should not devalue its European identity. Let us look ahead over the next 10, 15 or 25 years and examine what is in Europe’s best interest: what will contribute to the prosperity and peace of this family of nations that we call the Europe of today. Let us not be hypocritical, and let us ask ourselves what is the intellectual basis for excluding Turkey. Young Europeans, socially mobile and far less religious than us, expect us to develop a Europe of opportunities for work and prosperity that we can all enjoy. Turkey cannot join the EU today; but geography, culture, history, security and common sense . . . () – Madam President, I condemn without reservation terrorism and murder. I agree with my colleagues that there is no reason for it and no-one has a right to carry out such acts. Terrorists choose violence rather than the ballot box, inflicting death and pain on innocent civilians, justifying their actions by flying the banner of religion, race or political sovereignty. Islam, like other great world religions, such as Judaism and Christianity, is a way of life for over one thousand million people in this world. These millions of Muslims, from Indonesia to Nigeria, from Central Asia to the leafy suburbs of California, knew nothing about Osama bin Laden before 11 September. For these millions and for Islam there is no place for terrorists like him or any others, whoever they are and wherever they come from. These terrorists have no authority to act on behalf of any people, race or religion. Therefore, we must fight terrorism and act against terrorists, not innocent civilians who pursue their lives peacefully and who should have the freedom to believe in a religion of their choice. Human life is precious and the death of innocent civilians, wherever it occurs, is simply not acceptable. Reason without passion is sterile, passion without reason is heat. Let us be firm and decisive. Let us target terrorism: let us remove the causes that conceive, feed and sustain terrorism. – The EU has been a willing donor but has, in the past, and I emphasise in the past, failed to deliver effective help when it is required and where it is most needed. Such failure has left many countries poorer today. Fortunately, and I disagree with the last speaker, the Gemelli report strengthens the Commission proposals. Commissioner Nielson and his team have done a great job and Mr Gemelli’s report – an excellent report – reinforces those new proposals. The acid test will be whether the next ten or twenty years of EU aid will reduce poverty substantially – I disagree with the last speaker, we will never eradicate poverty. The aim is to reduce substantially the poverty and misery experienced by so many. The Gemelli report attempts to take a fresh approach, a bold approach. Out with theory, the models which did not produce results. In with practical ideas to promote real development: development of human resources, so that indigenous people acquire technical skills; development of vocational skills for rural production, so that people can grow, harvest, process, package and sell their goods for added value with which they can then buy their education, health and homes; building capacity through transfer of technology to SMEs, promoting use of sustainable energy, application of information technology, enhancing awareness of social education, health and human rights. These are the ideas in the Gemelli report which support Commissioner Nielson’s report and good work. Therefore, this important report should be fully approved by this House because it should improve the efficacy of EU aid. It will be a blueprint for other donors and I hope that all Members from all sides will support this report and the Commission as well. – At the G8 Summit held in July 2000 in Okinawa, the rich industrialised G8 countries pledged substantial funds to fight communicable diseases and help the sick in poor countries. In September last year the Commission held a conference on the subject in Brussels but no action followed. Four million of the poorest people died in one year. In July 2001 another meeting took place in Genoa and Mr Prodi announced to the world's media a donation of EUR 120 million. My report, unanimously approved on 4 October this year has been sitting on the shelf collecting dust. The Council adopted a proposal for a legal basis for the fund to be implemented but so far not one euro has been given, and a further 2 million people have died. When terrorist bombs cause death the victims attract money very fast but the 3-4 million people who die from diseases are not in our minds. Why does it take the Commission so long to present a plan for implementation when they know that every day 10 000 people are dying? We promise with pride but we fail to deliver. Do these people not matter to us? The Commissioners have gone. There is no interest. Look at the audience in this Chamber, hardly anyone is here. That shows what priority the European Union gives to such an important project. This is not FYROM or Macedonia. This is AIDS affecting the poorest people in the world and it is about time that the EU contribution is not just EUR 20 per person dying, not just 1% of what is required, but that it is EUR 6 billion per annum. – My interest is to assess the efficacy of the EU in giving development aid to any of the third world countries. So will the Commission answer my questions if I take one of the third world countries as a model and try to assess how effectual our aid is and what the delegation does? Mr President, knock on any mud hut in any poor country and ask the poor family inside what it needs most of all. There is only one answer: water. Not democracy. Not human rights. Not medicines. Nothing else, just water. If the European Union has allocated EUR one billion for water aid – and I believe Commissioner Nielson has been instrumental in this – I must congratulate the EU and the Commissioner. What a fantastic job. This is what these people need. Sadly, it is not enough. We need to do more and I ask the Commissioner to please make sure that this Parliament has a say in formulating water aid policy so that it is not lost in the clouds like the EDF. Parliament needs to be involved. I want this to happen. I hope you will assure us of this because I do not want my colleague here to persuade the PPE-DE Group to vote against the Lannoye report tomorrow. I understand what you are doing and I have confidence in it. I would like to say a quick word about trade. The poor countries need to process their products, not simply to export the raw products so that the value added is not received by them. That is the key to trade. I know Commissioner Nielson understands this and I know he is working for it. I hope he will do more. – Mr President, Commissioner and Colleagues, as someone who has worked in and known Rwanda since 1984, as someone born in Tanzania where I lived for many years, as someone speaking the main African language of the Great Lakes region, I speak on this subject with experience and knowledge. Genocide in any country is evil and must be condemned without reservation. Whoever is responsible for such genocide must be indicted, and justice must be seen to be done. There cannot be any immunity for anyone from such prosecution. The International Criminal Tribunal in Arusha must do its work efficiently, and we hope that those doing this work will take measures to bring this process to a just and speedy end. Only four trials have been completed in five years, and this delay has allowed some perpetrators of genocide to go free on technicalities. This is not acceptable. We need to evaluate the work of the tribunal to identify the weaknesses so that we can furnish appropriate assistance to ensure high standards of justice without wasting time and resources. The innocent victims of genocide and conflict cannot wait for ever to rebuild their lives in order to live in peace in their own villages and in their own homes. This resolution, agreed by all political groups in this Parliament, expresses clearly our concerns, hopes and expectations. It is now up to the government of Rwanda and those of neighbouring countries to take serious action to bring about genuine peace in the area. They need to cooperate fully with the EU special envoy, the EU, the United Nations, the OAU and all humanitarian aid agencies in doing what is needed to support peace and stability in Rwanda and the Great Lakes region in general. – Mr President, combating AIDS is not just a matter of the price of the drugs. You need funding for infrastructure, to test the patient, to diagnose and to monitor his progress. Then you have the access to medication. Of course price is important. The pharmaceutical companies have brought their prices down. But what is important, even if it is USD 10 for medication, do we have the will to fund the procurement? We are getting too emotional about this. Let us be sure that we have a strategy for funding the purchase. Governments in these poor countries do not have the funds, even if it is only USD 10 for treating a patient. The good news is that the prices have come down and they can come down even further if we get the pharmaceutical companies on our side. The bad news is that we need the funding to be organised. I hope, as rapporteur, to devise a package that is deliverable and will benefit the poorest who are suffering, without being emotive, without recommending a solution that requires billions in funds, which I know will not be forthcoming. – When Mr Mugabe became the first President of Zimbabwe some 40 years ago, that land-locked country in Africa was a rich nation that could feed its population and export food to neighbouring countries. About 1000 white farmers, owning most of the land, produced the food and the surplus. After independence in Zimbabwe, the Lancaster House Agreement between Britain, as the colonial power, and Zimbabwe allowed for land redistribution to black families and appropriate compensation to white farmers without any loss of production. Mugabe has failed in implementing these reforms. He has failed to settle the poor black families. Since independence, Mugabe has had much time to establish real democracy, rule of law and prosperity for all. Instead, he has enriched himself, his friends and destroyed his country's economy. He has made the poor even poorer. He has intimidated, looted and deprived the white farmers who produced so much wealth for his nation. Zimbabwe needs a free and fair election now. Mugabe should not fear. He will be judged on his record. If he is a statesman, like Mandela, then he should step down with dignity and let someone else from Zanu-PF contest the election. If he is still a Catholic, then he should listen to Archbishop Ncube of Zimbabwe who has also condemned him regularly without fear. Mr Mugabe cannot and will not be remembered in Africa unless he gives his countrymen a chance to breathe, walk without fear and seek opportunities to enhance their quality of life. I have a simple message for Mr Mugabe – be an African elder and retire gracefully to your village. – Madam President, there is a mistake in the Spanish text, paragraph 6, with reference to the word 'parents', which should come before primary and secondary schoolteachers. I hope that translation will be corrected in the Spanish text. Although there is widespread support for some other oral amendments which I was going to make, I understand there is opposition from the Greens so the only oral amendment that I wish to make now concerns paragraph 14. There is a genuine error and it should be amended to read, 'Calls on all developing countries to abolish tariffs and taxes on import of essential drugs and equipment in order to make healthcare more affordable.' There is no tax when we export medicines from Europe or the United States, so the current paragraph is factually incorrect. I hope Members will support this. – Mr President, as somebody keen on helping countries to create jobs and transfer technology, I have to say that the ECIP programme is extremely good and, in principle, that was the objective. But as my colleague and friend, Mrs Theato, has mentioned, it is full of worms. It is almost as if the project was a wonderful, beautifully-wrapped box of chocolates, but inside was absolutely packed with worms. The reason for that is simple. If you look at Facility 1, it grants up to EUR 100 000 for simply identifying a potential joint venture. So, clearly, when you look at Facilities 2, 3, 4 and 1b, you soon realise that the work was not done by somebody who was a banker, but by somebody who perhaps was a bureaucrat and knew nothing about finance and lending to projects which could be viable. In short, I would say if such an instrument is ever to be invented and devised, it should be done with bankers and industrialists, people who know what they are talking about, not bureaucrats sitting in the European Commission. Therefore, the sooner this project is wound up and the European Union saves money that is being wasted, the better. I feel very strongly that such investment projects should be very carefully thought out with input from industry and bankers so that maximum jobs are created where they are needed and where there is wide coverage and public accountability and transparency. When I was a member of the Budgetary Control Committee and met the people who were managing this project, I was not at all impressed with the knowledge that they had of running such an enterprise, and I come from an industrial and financial background. – Mr President, on a point of order. Many friends and women who are colleagues in this Parliament have just pointed out that my name appears as one of those who signed against women's rights. I want to put on record that I am against women's rights. I have always supported women's rights. It must be an error. Sometimes colleagues bring petitions from delegations and we sign them. I am sorry about that. – Mr President, Members who have been elected to this House have been elected by people of Europe to speak for Europe, to determine what role Europe can play on the international scene. I am encouraged by the statement of Mr Danielsson, the confidence of Mr Solana and the excellent analysis of Commissioner Patten of the situation on the ground. I was horrified to witness in the delegation last week the extent to which Palestine is a military occupation. People of Europe have no idea of this. It is unbelievable that there is a situation where the Palestinian Legislative Council cannot even meet. Mayors of towns like Hebron were not able to escort us to places that our ambassador had arranged for us to see. There is wrong on both sides, of course there is. What I am against is the 33 years of negotiations which have led to nowhere, no solution, no peace. Therefore, I believe that we in the European Union should take a more active role: supportive – not to replace the Americans in the peace process – but to support and give confidence to both sides that we are a fair, just, impartial broker. We should also support the United Nations and the resolutions, because if UN resolutions are to be respected by countries like Iraq and Cuba, then they must also be respected by Israel and the Palestinians. That is something that I hope Mr Solana and the Council will impress on both sides: if there are international agreements where there is international law, then both sides should abide by them. – Mr President, it seems that Africa is neglected by the UN and the rest of the world. Two tribes, the Hemas and the Lendys have been fighting in the town of Bunia in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Hundreds of people have been injured. Many people have been killed and yet, despite the presence of French troops and UN troops in DRC, they are still fighting, they are still killing and there is much trouble and displacement of the population. The key to all this, as I have said many times before in Parliament, is that until rural areas in Africa have security in terms of land, the economy, rural assets and rural development, there will always be conflict. There will be no democracy in Africa until people have something they can call their own, a stake in the local economies. We are trying to encourage democracy in these countries. Democracy cannot filter from the presidential palace down to the rural areas. It has to grow from rural areas and until we improve the economies of the rural areas, until we provide security for these people through land tenure, through police, a chamber of commerce, political representation, local schools, local hospitals – assets that they can call their own – conflict will continue. We seem to turn a blind eye to this. I have been an MEP now for four years. I have lived in Africa for many years. My family has been there for 170 years and I know what it is like in the rural areas. It is about time the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers recognise that Africa is not like the US or Europe, where democracy can be understood. You knock on any mud hut in any part of Africa and tell the inhabitant that you have come from the European Parliament. Tell him: 'here are your rights, rights for your women, rights for your children, rights for you to assemble, to worship, to have democracy in your parliament.' As I found out with Mr Goebbels and Mr Van den Bos when we went to Ethiopia, these people ask only for water, seed, peace and security. At the moment they have no stake in their economies. Any rebel leader can come along and say: 'I will give you a hundred dollars, come with me, let us go and plunder, let us go and loot, let us go and fight', and they of course fall prey to that. We see this in Uganda, we see this in Somalia, we see this in Ethiopia and Eritrea, we see it in Kenya, we see it in Central Africa. Mr President, the role of NSAs – non-state actors – in helping development has been acknowledged and I agree with Commissioner Nielson in what he said. If you look at the United Nations, there are 72 000 registered NGOs drawing EUR 7 billion every year. Certainly, the NGOs have got their act together. They know what to do, where to go and source the founds. On the other hand, private companies – and they are non-state actors too – do not enjoy the same status, privilege or funding. I am very much in favour of tilting the balance to established private corporations with a good track record in development and in developing countries, so that they may also receive aid that would be very well utilised. We also have two categories that the EU has never considered. I know they are slightly off-track and perhaps Parliament has discussed this. One of them is service clubs, such as Rotary Clubs, which do a fantastic job at a very low cost. Others are missionaries, particularly in Africa. Very selective use of mission work in developing countries can bring substantial benefit to the very poorest in these countries for very low sums of money. I have personal experience of both Rotary Clubs and missionaries working in East Africa for very little money. They provide substantial support for local communities. But today I am going to focus on accountability. It is known that a large percentage of money received by non-state actors, particularly NGOs, is spent on administration, including high salaries, first- or club-class fares, and bills for expensive hotels. There are so many seminars which now, with information technology, are totally unnecessary. Transparency International is supposed to monitor the role of such bodies, but it has not done the job it is supposed to have done. I am pointing out these things for this Parliament and for Commissioner Nielson to put at the back of their minds because much has already been said and will be said. But I want to highlight one thing and I hope Commissioner Nielson will take note of this. Whenever the EU gives any aid to any poor country, please let us inform the population what we are doing: how much money we are giving for each sector and to which actors or players or stakeholders this money is being given. Because the poor will be the best invigilators, the best inspectors, the best reporters to our EU delegations if they find that this EU money is being misused. If money has been given to the government through budgets and not spent in an appropriate manner the people will know and will report. If money is given to NGOs and it is not utilised people will know. But if they do not know what the EU gives, for what sectors, there is no inspection, there is no vigilance and there is no feedback. I want to say one last thing. There is aid fatigue and it is important that whatever the EU gives, which is very generous, it is spent well. I wish Commissioner Nielson much luck in what he is doing. He has my full support. – Mr President, ordinary people in most African countries are poorer today than when their countries became independent. Poverty, therefore, is a disease inflicted upon innocent populations by evil dictators, greedy and corrupt politicians. Natural disasters, including climate change, have aggravated the problem. The Touareg in the desert in northern Niger, the Makonde in Tanzania or Mozambique take their families and put their meagre possessions in a little basket if they wish to move. They are poor, insecure and exposed to the elements. They have no water, sanitation, energy, medicine, education or reliable shelter. Such desperate people cannot think of democracy and human rights in the way we do from our houses and leafy suburbs in the West. They have no stake in their village, regional or national economies. Such rootless people, desperate people, are easy prey to evil political manipulation, and that is why we see so much conflict and civil unrest in those countries. We here in this Assembly offer these people open and free access to our EU markets. We invite them to be part of the global economy, so that they can come and sit at the tables in Seattle for the WTO discussions. What does this mean to these poor people, the majority of whom live in the bush, who have no knowledge, no means of efficient cultivation, harvesting, processing, packaging even what little they grow? They cannot even market it in their own countries let alone sell it abroad. So I suggest, let us teach them to be self-reliant and independent, by teaching them the means to grow and harvest what there is in those countries. Let us give them the technology transfer that makes sense, before we say our markets are open to them. – An alternative proposition is that we start half an hour earlier at 8.30 and then have the voting time at 11 o’clock. – Madam President, thank you for that very helpful suggestion. Not many of us will be here on Thursday evening, unfortunately. It might be helpful if the Commission could take this on board and tomorrow morning, in the statement it makes on the Commission's work programme for 2001 – or the Commission and Parliament's work programme, as I like to call it – make such a statement in public. Mr President, I welcome Mr Laschet’s report, comprehensive and ambitious though it is. It comes at a sensitive time for both the European Union and the United Nations. I want to refer in particular to the UN Development Programme. The report made in 2002 on the subject of Arab human development was described by  magazine as the most important publication of the year, and more than a million people downloaded it from the UNDP website. It had particular relevance for the EU since it was the impetus for the recent Commission communication – for which I am currently rapporteur – on reinvigorating human rights and democratisation with Mediterranean partners. Last year’s UNDP Arab human development report stated that – subject to fieldwork surveys – the appetite for democracy in the Arab world was, at 60%, the highest of any region in the world. Compare that, for example, with Eastern Europe, where the figure was 30%. The Arab world also logged the highest rejection of authoritarian rule – the figure in this regard was 80% – and was indeed the third highest in favour of gender equality in higher education. So the perception that many have that the Arab world is not ready for democracy is undermined by the United Nations’ own reports. I hope, therefore, that the Council and Commission can, as it were, put our money where our mouth is, and redirect some of the enormous funds available for good governance, the development of civil society, democracy and the rule of law, which, in the external field – the responsibility of Commissioners Patten and Nielson – amounts to EUR 1.9 billion a year. By contrast, the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights – a rather smaller fund aimed at the ex-Soviet Bloc – which I had the honour to set up a few years ago, amounts to only EUR 106 million. That is an indication of the distortion in spending which we need to address, and in particular the priorities with which I hope the European Parliament will play some part in helping the Commission in the coming years. – I entirely agree with Mr Swoboda. I think it is very important that we have some mechanism in the House to adjust the agenda when an urgent situation such as this arises. The sad fact is that, although this particular disease affects only animals, it can be transmitted by air over a distance of some 200 kilometres and therefore any Member State within the European Union and beyond is vulnerable. It is therefore  a matter of urgency. The Commission should make a statement, whether in the presence of the Council or not, and I urge you to put it to the House. – Mr President, I would like first of all to thank Mrs Díez González and Mr Van Hecke for the enormous amount of work that they have put into their respective reports. I am going to concentrate on the work of Mrs Díez González because it reflects work I myself began in the early 1990's, after the fall of the Berlin Wall. There are very few people in the Chamber who were here at that time, but I can still see one or two officials from those days. At the time, Parliament decided to work closely with the Commission in establishing a programme to promote democracy and human rights, primarily in Central and Eastern Europe, but also in those countries close to us and in the wider world, and to put the whole process onto a more systematic basis. That led to the creation of budgetary chapter B7-700, now known as the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights. The first thing I would like to say is that the success of this scheme is not widely recognised. Over a period of years, many millions of euros have been spent on projects large and small, near and far, by and large with tremendous success and a very high profile in the countries in which they have been active. This initiative has been a success. There are criticisms, as with any programme, but by and large we should congratulate the Commission on the way in which it handled this matter. However, in 1999, the whole process was reversed. The process under which the Parliament and the Commission, alongside the G-24, the Council of Europe and one or two other entities, was involved in the monitoring and selection of programmes. The Commission then took on the whole process in-house. I now come to the heart of the recommendations of Mrs. Díez González' report. Should there be an agency for human rights and democratisation? My answer, and the answer of the PPE-DE group is: not yet. We think that the Commission should still be given the responsibility for maintaining these programmes. Obviously, we need to watch it closely, but to create yet another bureaucracy does not seem appropriate to us at this time. I personally have no objection to the restoration by Parliament of the Committee on human rights and democratisation. This discussion, however, needs to take place nearer the time of the next election. In the meantime, we could surely restore the working party on human rights and democratisation within the Foreign Affairs Committee to maintain the oversight that this Parliament should now have on the EUR 100 million being spent annually under the Budget. My proposition is fundamentally this: Parliament, and I am grateful to those colleagues who are still in the Chamber, should re-focus on human rights and democratisation. These are political projects, they need political oversight. We should not leave it all to the Commission, still less to the Council. So, colleagues, let us take an interest again. I am grateful to Mrs Díez González for focusing attention on this matter. Many of her propositions are well worth pursuing, but not the ones I have singled out as being rather bureaucratic. I am very grateful for the work she has done. – Mr President, I decided to speak in this debate when I read the truly excellent analysis of the current situation in Europe produced by the European Commission before the Lisbon Summit. It is true that the Lisbon Summit also represented something of a sea-change in attitudes towards the global society and in particular towards issues like commerce. At the same time there was a tension in Lisbon between the old world of the international socialists and the new world of those who have a slightly wider perspective. So the city of Henry the Navigator may become the city of Netscape the navigator, a new approach which I thoroughly welcome. The summit was variously described as a social summit and an summit and so on. Much was said about the economic and social policies that were supposed to emanate from Lisbon. The reality is that the European social model is now living in London and she is called Laetitia Casta. She is Marianne, the symbol of France but taxes in France are now so high that she now has to go and live in London despite the vastly increased taxation under Labour. Very soon now the government is about to raise GBP 16 billion through the sale of the third generation mobile telephone licences as Mr Suominen reminded us. There is tension around Europe but at the same time I detect a sea-change. I rarely speak in debates after summits but this is an important one. I therefore look forward to some genuine action from the European Commission. It is action not words that is needed. When I talk about words, I am thinking about words like “bench-marking” and “peer review”. I am sure there are not many people in this Chamber who understand what bench-marking or peer review means. Do not worry, it is meaningless. What actually matters is a light touch on the commerce directive, a light touch on telecommunications. Give people the freedom to use the Internet to their advantage, to their benefit, for social reasons, for educational reasons, for the disabled – all the benefits the Internet can give us. We do not need the heavy regulatory touch of the past. Please Mr Prodi, ignore your friends on the Left and stick with the new world not the old world. – Madam President, this afternoon, in this Chamber, reference was made to a series of reports on the BBC  programme this morning, which claimed that certain of my colleagues were running personal lobbying companies or somehow misusing their position as Members of this House. These are serious allegations. They are completely untrue, malicious, politically biased and were broadcast in the full knowledge of their falsehood. We are taking legal advice. My colleagues’ register of interests is complete. If we find that any Member of this House or their employees collaborated with the BBC in this farrago we will expose them to the opprobrium of this House. – Mr President, we will never forget the attacks against the United States, which we utterly condemn. We share the grief of the civilian victims and their families and we share the values of our great ally – democracy and individual freedom. Terrorism creates a state of mind. It provokes outrage and reaction, so we must be united, we must be determined and we must be vigilant. However, in addition to our united political reaction, we must adjust the European Union's diplomatic standpoint. In the context of the current budget process, we must reassess the EU's vast aid programme, in particular, if states were involved in that terrorism in any way. The EU is perceived as pro-Arab. I regret this. We should be pro-democracy. War has been declared and we should unequivocally stand by our American allies. My party and group are committed to giving our full support, in particular to the British Government, its partners in the European Union and to our NATO allies. The scale and nature of the outrage we witnessed in the United States last week gives us a warning of what else the new millennium might bring, so we must look pragmatically at what we need to do together. We should learn from each other as much as possible about how to deal with the security of our people and how best to reduce the tensions which lead to political violence and terrorism. As far as possible, our electors should be allowed to get on with their lives, but we as politicians cannot rest while terrorism lives. – Madam President, we have been in correspondence about Mr Titford's membership of the Committee on Fisheries, a very important committee for the United Kingdom. We have expressed the hope that, since he never attends meetings of that committee, he might stand down as a member of it. – Madam President, the Conciliation Committee is of the view that the President of Parliament should vote on that matter ...  ... and had she done so the conciliation procedure would have been sustained. I believe that is the point. – Mr President, I should like to make four points. The Conservatives are opposed to the return of any of the former Commission and we have been denied votes on individual Commissioners. Secondly, the left-wing composition of the proposed Commission is wholly contrary to the views of Europe’s voters as shown in June. Thirdly, important questions on probity have still not been answered in respect of some of the Commissioners-designate. Fourthly, we are concerned that some are simply not up to the job. Over the past two weeks Conservative MEPs, as others, have cross-examined the nominated European Commissioners. Our criteria were competence, policy and background. Right from the outset we demanded an open vote in every parliamentary committee in order to allow MEPs to register their opinion on individual EU Commissioners. Time and again this request was blocked. Finding ourselves unable to hold individual Commissioners to account, Conservative MEPs are left with no choice but to oppose, on the grounds of democratic principle, the incoming team of European Commissioners. We insist on responsibility and accountability. Even Professor Prodi declined to face an open hearing. In most of our countries, perhaps all, a minister who misleads parliament or who fails to take action to deal with grave mismanagement would step down. In the Wise Men’s report into the last Commission, it was noted that it is becoming difficult to find anyone who has even the slightest sense of responsibility. It is even less reassuring to note that during their time as commissioners not once were the EU accounts effectively signed off. It is hardly an advertisement for responsible financial governance. The outgoing Commission stood on collegiate responsibility. Four governments reappointed their Commissioners. For these reasons, Conservative MEPs oppose the four returnees. This is not personal. It is not political. It is a point of principle. The only way to deliver on this is to vote against the Commission as a whole. We want the European Parliament to be given the power to dismiss individual Commissioners for maladministration or fraud. By failing to allow votes on individual Commissioners, MEPs have been denied an important democratic right. We want a European Union that is efficient and accountable and where Europe’s institutions are kept under close scrutiny. We are not anti-European Commission. We are against fraud and corruption, mismanagement and inefficiency. We want a Commission which works, which really does less better. Wednesday’s vote is an important opportunity to signal to the new Commission that business as usual cannot be the guiding principle in Brussels. – Madam President, very briefly in reply to Baroness Ludford's speech on the question of whether or not there should be a debate on euthanasia, I think it is entirely proper that Parliament should debate euthanasia. I would personally recommend that there be no vote at the end of such a debate, and indeed my own delegation would expect a free vote because it is a matter of conscience. Just for the record, I wish to make it clear that my delegation has taken no position on this matter in the EPP Group. Mind you, Baroness Ludford's speech suggests to me that there might be some form of political euthanasia which I would support. Mr President, I was just about to say that, contrary to some speculation, I was not arrested at this point. We have received a number of tributes to my late friend, Mr Dankert. He used to chair a small committee of this Parliament, in which I sat, which had as its sole motivation the achievement of the rights of this Parliament to decide where it sits. I understand that Mr van Hulten and others are pursuing that work and I want to encourage them. We cannot be taken seriously until the Council allows us to decide where we sit and where our staff meets. . The votes of Conservative MEPs today reflect our view that Britain should be in a Europe that does less and does it better, not run by a Europe that does more, worse. There were two types of EU reform on offer to MEPs today. A Conservative response to the White Paper on Commission Reform would enable the EU to do less and to do it better. The resolution on the Nice Summit is the blueprint for the EU to do more, worse. The reforms proposed by Malcolm Harbour MEP on the White Paper are common sense reforms. British people want reform of the EU to make it more accountable and more efficient. Conservatives in the European Parliament have consistently argued for these reforms. On the other hand, the so-called reforms proposed by the Nice Summit resolution make little sense to anyone in the world beyond Brussels. They will make the EU more complicated and further removed from ordinary people. They do nothing to help enlargement, such as overhauling the CAP. This is the agenda Labour and the Lib Dems support. – Mr President, Mrs Flesch quite rightly declares an interest in matters in which she has an interest. I suggest that such a declaration is not necessary when voting. When Members are speaking in debate, either in committee or in plenary, they should declare an interest, but that should not prevent them from voting on a subject. – Mr President, I speak as the PPE-DE Group spokesman on Islamic affairs and as a longstanding member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy. Let us look at the politics. The failure of the CFSP is our fault. The Bush administration has never hidden its determination to remove Saddam Hussein by force if necessary. Congress approved this and Europe largely ignored it. Instead of seeking common ground and leading the debate, France and Britain – the two countries most responsible for the mess in the Middle East after the First World War – have fallen out again. I have an interest here, as my kinsman T. E. Lawrence sought and expected Arab autonomy. Meanwhile, in speech after speech, Washington, with the security of a President in mid-term, has placed a vast army in the region and has explicitly talked about wider regime change. Indeed, the road map for peace between Israel and Palestine is published – it is on the Palestinian Authority's website. We all know that in the democracies public opinion is opposed to conflict. Who knows, however, what real public opinion is in the Arab countries? We can learn something from the comprehensive UNDP report written last year by Arabs, which states: 'Political participation in Arab countries remains weak, as manifested in the lack of genuine representative democracy and restrictions on liberties'. At the same time, people's aspirations for more freedom and greater participation in decision-making, have grown, fuelled by rising incomes, education and information flows. So speaks the United Nations. It should be observed that there is nothing inherently intolerant and oppressive in the letter of the Islamic faith and in earlier centuries Islam exercised a culturally progressive and civilising influence. Our efforts to promote democracy and human rights in the world are founded in the framework of the Democracy and Human Rights Programme. The core principles of the CFSP – promotion of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms – are absolutely crucial here. – Madam President, this debate was opened by Mr Da Costa, who merely confirms that the EU presidency is trying to influence the composition of a government of one of the Member States. This debate, and the background to it, reinforced the point that the Council, the Commission and this Parliament itself are dominated by Socialists. My delegation of 37 Conservative and Unionist Members from the United Kingdom reject absolutely the underlying philosophy, programme and tone of Austria’s Freedom Party. We share the widespread outrage at its attitude to history, in particular World War II, but also its policies on enlargement, on immigration, on race and its attitude to the European Union itself. We were also outraged, however, at the tolerance of the left for the tyranny, the terror and the excesses of the former USSR. Even today, surely it is high time for the Party of European Socialists to break their fraternal links with China’s Communist Party. Not a word was said by these same EU governments about coalition governments involving fellow-travelling communists in French or Italian governments, or in German state governments, or even the British government’s willingness to promote those with terrorist associations as ministers in Northern Ireland today. This, Madam President, is the hypocrisy of the left. So we condemn that hypocrisy and the double standards, especially of the British government and the other largely socialist heads of EU governments and include that of the United States. We should recognise, however, that the democratic process sometimes produces uncomfortable results. This requires action to address the underlying causes, including an examination of the electoral process itself. That should be our task, not political posturing. – Mr President, it is very relevant indeed because this broadcast followed a week in which the BBC spent a very large sum of public money lobbying the European Parliament about the very report we have just voted on. – Mr President, it was not only courteous of the Swedish Prime Minister to come here, but also rather courageous. As so many speakers have said, on the economic front, Stockholm was a great disappointment. Once again Heads of Government could only agree to set theoretical deadlines for ministers to liberalise markets in the future, rather than actually set the seal on agreements that should already have been made or reach those agreements themselves. To coin a phrase, the liberalising talk is 'all spin and no delivery'. We are witnessing serious under-performance by standards which Europe's socialist leaders have set themselves. It is all a far cry from the spirit of the single market when the centre right ran Europe. One of the major failures of the Stockholm Summit was in the foreign affairs field. With the great events taking place in the world, it was as if the Stockholm Summit was ignoring them. For example, the General Affairs Council on 19 March decided once again not to table a critical motion in the United Nations sub-committee in Geneva, dealing with human rights abuses in China. Until 1997, every year the European Union did so. Now the socialists are failing, it is business as usual. Even more important – as Mr Poettering told the House earlier on, and other speakers have referred to this – last night the PPE-DE Group heard Yelena Bonner describe the situation in Russia today: Mr Putin came to Stockholm, Mr Persson gave him a cheque for EUR 100 million, the very next week Mr Putin begins yet another crack-down on the media. There is now no single independent media channel in Russia. This is a scandal. I am very disappointed indeed that Mr Persson did not take the opportunity this morning to criticise President Putin for the way in which he is repressing the media in Russia, the way in which democracy is being rolled back. This is our great neighbour to the east. We must deal with it on a practical and political basis, but with frankness and determination. God help us if the socialists had run Europe during the cold war. – This time last year I visited Belgrade, a rather bleak city, veering from despair to hope on a daily basis. I went to see the NGOs working in humanitarian and free media fields, financed by the European Union, and the picture was not a particularly happy one. The aspiration was there but the actuality was not. The promise was there but the performance was not, because the money was not coming through and there was an administrative bungle. I want to ask the Commissioner if he will confirm that he will thank the staff of the Commission both in Brussels, and in particular in the Belgrade office under Michael Graham, the head of the delegation, who throughout this time have gone through enormous change and have actually wrought a major difference in the process of moving towards democracy. Despite the difficulties, they have achieved something rather remarkable. I would like the Commissioner to confirm that he will thank not only those people but also the NGOs working in the field. More particularly I hope he will accept the thanks of this House, because he has demonstrated that democratic activism not only works in Hong Kong but also in Serbia. – I noticed just now that a Member of the Parliament was seeking to intervene rather more directly than I thought was appropriate. I believe that she sought the floor and, like many Members, did not have a chance to put a question to the Commission. I therefore share the view of Mrs Lynne that this Question Time has not been long enough given the importance of the subject. Nevertheless, can I ask you to confirm that it is quite inappropriate for Members of this House – Liberals or otherwise – to seek to persuade you to hear them. I think the staff ought to make sure that this is prevented in the future. – Madam President, in reference to Wednesday's agenda following the point made by Mr Barón Crespo, last Tuesday I and two other Members of this House had the honour of meeting with the former king of Afghanistan, Mohammed Zahir Shah. At that meeting we discussed the possibility of his playing a role in some form of mediation in Afghanistan leading to the restoration of the democracy which he established in 1964, and which involved free media, free elections and the involvement of women in politics – a very far cry from the current state of affairs in Afghanistan. He also asked us to extend his respects to you, Madam President, and to the House as a whole, and hoped that in due course he would be able to visit the European Parliament. Yesterday I spoke to Mr Patten on this matter and hope there will be some development in this regard involving not only Parliament but the European Union as a whole. On the agenda for Wednesday, it seems to me rather sad that, in spite of the special nature of this international situation, reflected by our solemn sitting the day after the events in America on 11 September and the succeeding week, the Council has made a number of proposals for legislation following the terrorist acts which many of us consider as tantamount to an act of war. In this regard, the European Parliament will no doubt be involved in the normal procedures. It would be helpful to have a longer debate on Wednesday and not take the Ghent Council with the question of terrorism. Secondly, could you give us some indication of when the House will know the procedures to be followed with its committees for the examination, with proper scrutiny, of the proposals now being made by the Council? – Mr President, the attacks on New York and Washington were a new form of terrorism on a new scale, amounting to an act of war. The intention of the coalition, led by the United States, to eradicate terrorism deserves the support of the European democracies in particular. We welcome the measures taken by the European Council since the attacks and we are playing our part in putting them swiftly into effect. However, let us also be vigilant in ensuring that the European Union does not, in its haste, take steps which exceed the current needs. In some cases, these measures should be renewable and temporary. Last week in Rome I and my colleagues had a series of meetings in connection with the reaction to terrorism. We met the exiled Afghan King, Mohammed Zahir Shah, who ruled for 40 years until 1973 and who in 1964 introduced free elections and a free media and brought women into politics. We affirm our support for the central role he is willing to play in the return to democracy of his country. We urge the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission to take up immediate contacts with the king. We also had meetings with Italian ministers and were able to express our thanks for the additional deployment of troops in the Balkans, allowing British special forces to be deployed in another theatre. We also discussed at the Vatican the values shared by all faiths, including Islam, concerning the integrity of human beings, their rights and the universal belief in the peaceful resolution of disputes, whether in the context of democracy or other systems. We held meetings with the World Food Programme and were told that the international community should start to plan now for a reconstruction agency similar to the one the European Union set up for Kosovo. Even before the current crisis, drought, a failing economy and war had turned Afghanistan into one of the most difficult places to live on earth, with as many as 22% of children in some districts dead before they had reached five years of age and an average life expectancy of 40. The actions about to begin are designed not simply to eradicate terrorism, but also to eradicate an evil regime. Mr President, I would like to make a short statement – which I had intended to make yesterday – about events yesterday at Charles de Gaulle Airport. I was on a flight from London to Paris with 28 other passengers, including Mrs Lynne and Baroness Nicholson. The plane was half an hour late. We were then told that, even though there was half an hour until the departure of the Strasbourg flight, we would be transferred to a flight five hours later. Some of us decided not to accept this proposal and made our way to the check-in desk for the original flight, which was then closed. At that gate I found other colleagues, including Mr Hume, who got the Nobel Peace Prize for dealing with the hard men of Ireland – but they are nothing compared to the ground staff at Paris Charles de Gaulle.  I then proceeded, because I wanted to talk to the pilot down the .... – Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Méndez de Vigo and Mrs Seguro on their joint report and the work involved, and the Constitutional Committee and the other committees who worked towards this debate. We have had the work in committee and now we have to make a choice in plenary. Conservative MEPs will be opposing this report, not as a verdict on the Treaty of Nice, but rather to initiate a change of procedure in preparations for the next IGC and to raise the subject of galvanising public awareness and participation in the post-Nice debate. The hallmark of the report is its proposal for the formation of a convention to prepare for the next Intergovernmental Conference This convention would consist of representatives from the Commission, national governments, the European Parliament and national parliaments and it would prepare the agenda and the proposals for the next IGC. We are not convinced this is the right course. Moreover there are a number of clauses that we Conservatives are unable to support in this report, such as the inclusion in the Treaty of the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights or the extension of QMV to cover taxation. However, despite the connotations surrounding the subject of this report, there is no explicit "yes" or "no" given to the Treaty of Nice itself. It raises however the important points of increased democracy and transparency for the next IGC. We believe that there should be an early IGC. I agree with that part of the report, which calls for this, because this would place the main choices before the European public, including I hope by then some enlargement countries, so that they could make their choices at the next European election. I look forward to the debate at that time. – Mr President, there was to have been a debate on the question of football violence. The events last night in Copenhagen underline the importance of the European Parliament having this debate, as it decided to do earlier in the week. Because of the natural difficulties about the location of the matches under Euro 2000, the PPE-ED Group as a whole has decided not to support this resolution and to withdraw it. On the other hand, the British delegation, which is now 36 members, has retabled the resolution in its original form. Mr President, I ask you to rule it admissible for this debate to now take place, as was the wish of the House earlier in the week. – Mr President, I witnessed the violence at Göteborg. To me it symbolised the growing distance between the leaders and the led. I regret that the summit came to the conclusion that it should set aside the Irish referendum result and proceed with business as usual. The referendum in Ireland gave us an opportunity to sit back and think about the way in which Europe develops. The purpose, apparently, of the Nice Treaty was to provide for the enlargement of the European Union to include the new democracies. It is the paramount duty of all politicians in Europe to achieve that as soon as possible. However, I disagree with the President of the Commission, who wrote in  last week that Nice was essential for enlargement. Nice is not essential for enlargement. We could, within the accession treaties, make the necessary adjustment to QMV, voting rights, the number of MEPs and so on, for each country which accedes to the European Union. We should take this chance now of providing for the peoples of Europe, represented by their national MPs and by their Members of the European Parliament, by establishing not a Convention, but a parliamentary conference. That parliamentary conference should prepare the ground for the next Intergovernmental Conference. Above all, it should begin to identify the sort of choices that Europe needs to make for the future in the economy, social policy, the environment, transport, and the budget – the sort of Europe that the two great political families, the centre left and centre right of politics in Europe, actually look for. That would provide, at the European elections of 2004, a real choice between the proposals of the centre left and the proposals of the centre right. That would make the European elections meaningful and would actually accord with the views of most people in this House that the business-as-usual approach, the top-down approach, cannot be sustained any longer. – I note that Mr Holmes is leader of the UK Independence Party. I wonder whether that means that the UK Independence Party is now transferring in its entirety, or at least the two Members who are present here, to the other group. – Mr President, there are two messages coming from this House today. Firstly, the rather modest compromise resolution drafted by an all-party group which, if I were a member of the forces serving currently in Afghanistan – and I think particularly of the British forces – would give me very scant comfort. The other message comes from the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Verhofstadt, and deals with a rather more robust approach to the current operations in that area and also his more forward thinking approach towards the future of Afghanistan. Of course this House must have compromise resolutions and must, so far as possible, be united. Europe must not act at the level of the lowest common denominator but accept that in politics, as in war, there must be room for leadership. Today, our resolution does not reflect the sort of leadership which is available for the people of Afghanistan through their exiled king. Our resolution does not reflect the fact that in Peshawar today there is an enormous meeting taking place of those seeking – including the moderate Taliban – the restoration of democracy in that country. I believe – as do many of my colleagues – that the king, whom I had the pleasure of meeting on 21 September and whom Mr Solana met only last weekend, does have a role in the future of Afghanistan. He introduced democracy to that country in 1964: free elections, a free media, universities, hospitals; he introduced women into politics. It is that hope of the restoration of democracy in Afghanistan and the ending of international terrorism which must be the focus of our attention. – Madam President, could I ask you to invite colleagues, when they make declarations of that type, to assure themselves that the Member concerned has been informed of such a declaration? It is very discourteous to make that sort of remark, openly in the Chamber, when the Member concerned is not present. Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and indeed all those concerned with the budgetary process. I am rather an absentee member of the Committee on Budgets myself. I wanted to talk this afternoon about a small but highly sensitive programme  the European Initiative on Democracy and Human Rights, which is Line 1904 in the budget and to which amendments have been tabled on which we will vote tomorrow. I was the rapporteur who set up this fund in 1992, which now has EUR 100 million in it. I am currently rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy on the two financial regulations which will cover the financing of this programme in 2005 and 2006, as well as the communication from the Commission called 'Reintegrating human rights and democracy in the Mediterranean'. It is on this particular point that I want to focus. It seems to me that we need to be very conscious of the arc of instability running up from Morocco through the near-neighbour countries to the European Union as we enlarge next year. Indeed this whole region was called an 'arc of reform' by President Bush, but it is not so. There are many problems, some of which were referred to by Mr McCartin just now, and by other speakers too. The European Parliament, which set up this Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights, should now encourage the Commission immediately to refocus its 2004 priorities on this wider Europe programme, and in particular on the Arab countries. Some will know that the UNDP 2002 report focused on the lack of democracy in the Arab countries. The 2003 report contains surveys of public opinion in those countries which show that the Arabs actually have the highest demand and appetite for democracy of any region in the world. We in the European Parliament therefore have a special duty to sustain, encourage and develop those programmes, particularly in 2004. I intend to make use of the codecision on these two financial regulations to encourage the Commission and the Council to allow the European Parliament once more to have the oversight that it used to have on these programmes and to provide the political cover which the Council of Ministers cannot provide. Mr President, the assassination of the Hamas chief had one effect, which was that the Arab League summit, which was to have taken place yesterday and today, was cancelled. That is a tragedy because the summit was to have considered a number of proposals for reform in the Arab region. I want to focus on this question of reform because that is fundamental to our security in the European Union. The Irish Foreign Minister spoke about the Arab-Israeli conflict. He also spoke about the evolution of democracy and civil society in these lands. My question is, what can  do? While Commissioner Patten spoke about the Barcelona process – a highly desirable process established a long time before the Americans' idea of a greater Middle East process – that process is not having the sort of effect that it should have. As some of you may know, I have spent some time in the last few months, as rapporteur on the democracy initiative, going to the conference in Sana'a, Yemen, to Cairo, Alexandria, Damascus, to the Arab Parliamentary Union conference and to Athens last week with you, Mr President. This sort of democratic odyssey is trying to establish one thing: the appetite of the peoples of the Arab countries for democracy, the rule of law, civil society and so on. We know what our foreign policy priority is: we know it is human rights, it is democracy, the promotion of fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. But in this arc of instability on our rim, while the EU is spending EUR 700 million plus in MEDA funds, only EUR 7 million of that is being spent on democracy. I find myself caught between the Scylla of bureaucratic obstructionism in the Council and the Charybdis of bureaucratic obstructionism in the Commission. We need a programme that works: we have the means to do it and we have the will to do it in this Parliament. The question is, do the Commission and Council accept their political priorities? I address my remarks to two senior politicians who both occupy positions of responsibility at a very sensitive time for Europe. – Mr President, I apologise because my remarks are slightly ill-prepared. I have come straight from a meeting and, because there are no televisions in the meeting rooms in this building, it is very difficult to keep in touch with what is happening in the Chamber, a deficiency which I hope will be corrected in due course. Many of us regard the Treaty of Nice as unacceptable but for many different reasons. The great difficulty concerning the Treaty of Nice – as many people have already commented – is that the lack of any text at this time makes it impossible to make a considered judgment. We do not know whether the carpentry shop in Nice has produced a Pandora's box for Commission activism or a coffin for democracy, but – whatever has emerged – it is being French-polished and we hope the final result helps the European Union. I believe that two failures are the lack of democracy, because the opportunity to open the Council up to public scrutiny has been ignored although many of us feel that this was the time to do it, and the illogicality of the re-weighting of votes, with one approach for the Council and another for the European Parliament. Many people looking at the Treaty of Nice will wonder why it was done in that way. I personally believe that the re-weighting of votes must take account of population, as is done in the European Parliament and should have been done in the Council also. A further reason for opposing the Treaty of Nice is the development of greater bureaucracy in the European Union. Who can genuinely argue that the thirty areas now under QMV are essential to the enlargement process? I think most of the enlargement countries – while accepting the Treaty as it stands because it exists and opens the door to their accession in due course, sooner rather than later I hope – will look at those points and, like most of us, realise that they have no relevance to the day-to-day affairs of their lives. No reform of the common agricultural policy, no reform of the development policies which are vastly wasteful. Then there is the incorporation as a mandatory mechanism of the Charter of Fundamental Rights: in itself as in the United States today, a recipe for confusion between the courts in the European Union. There is the fact that under enhanced cooperation the European Parliament has no role, although certain leaders of national parties – including the leader of the Labour Party in his Warsaw speech – promised no reform of the structural funds in real terms until 2013. This is not a recipe for enlargement, it is a recipe for more bureaucracy, less democracy. Mr President, I have taken our Vice-President, Mr Dimitrakopoulos' chair, just to remind ourselves that democracy in the Mediterranean did not begin with this debate. I thank the Commissioner, whose work as Governor of Hong Kong ensured the continuation of the democratic life of that territory, which I hope will spark changes in the wider China. It is my pleasure to be rapporteur on the communication 'Reinvigorating EU actions on human rights and democratisation with Mediterranean partners'. We welcome the communication and its ten points for action. We note that it was published in 2003. Since that time, the MEDA process has taken on a new lease of life, with the agreements in December to establish the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Forum. In December also, the Council, while failing to agree on the European Constitution, did at least agree that the paper presented by the Commissioner and by the High Representative entitled 'Strengthening the EU's relations with the Arab world' would be adopted in March. We welcome that. I am also rapporteur on the two regulations dealing with the continuation of the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights in 2005 and 2006. While endorsing the communication on 'Reinvigorating EU actions on human rights and democratisation with Mediterranean partners', we are also examining these two regulations. Parliament will vote today on whether to have a say in the priorities and running of this programme, the European democracy initiative, because the resolution put forward by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy today points out that this fund, which uniquely requires no host country consent, should be more focused, especially on what I describe as the 'arc of instability' from Russia to Morocco, where democracy is fragile, or on the Arab world, where it is non-existent. The Commissioner's references to the UNDP report underline the importance attached to it by the Commission, but unfortunately the Commission needs to put its money where its mouth is. We need to examine very closely the way in which the European Union is funding programmes in this region. For example, he mentioned a figure of EUR 100 million for good governance in the MEDA region. In fact, in the wider Mediterranean, my understanding is that EUR 500 million a year is available for good governance. But of this, only EUR 7 million is currently budgeted through the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights. Reference has been made in this House this morning to forthcoming elections in Algeria and Tunisia, where very little money is getting through to the NGOs and activists who are looking for a free media and the development of human rights. Unfortunately – I have had some experience as the originator of this democracy programme – it is now rather bureaucratic and errs on the side of safety. The only way of dealing with this is to try and adapt it to the realities of the present situation. An unstable world to our east and south demands special actions. Having had experience of working in this field in the 1990s with the ex-Soviet Union, through an external agency which had an agility and freedom to manoeuvre not enjoyed by the Commission and the deniability not available to the Council, I can say that, with the advantage of Parliament's involvement, we have a much more effective programme. I welcome the Commissioner's assertion that he will be open-minded about further suggestions we might make as a Parliament. I intend to bring these forward, especially since I understand this morning that the Council has decided to withdraw the regulations as presented and to present them in a new format, thereby delaying yet further the adoption of the regulations. This debate will continue. – I wonder, since Mr Da Costa has been listening to these remarks from the back of the Chamber, whether Mr Kinnock could confirm that the Commission supports the view explicitly stated by Mr Da Costa today and in the recent statement by the Presidency on behalf of the heads of government. Does the Commission support the Council? – Mr President, I start with the Commission's work programme for 2001. The case for the EU to do less and do it better has never been clearer or more pressing. The European Parliament should say so in the coming weeks as the committees look into this programme. With some 600 initiatives, of which almost 200 are legislative measures, there is a lot of work to be done on scrutiny and on setting our own priorities, which we look forward to doing. Turning now to the question of the post-Nice process, I would rather see it as our European future. We look back into the history of the European Union over the last generation and the continent of Europe over the last century. I should like to recall some words by Milan Kundera in his book  where he says: "People are always shouting that they want to create a better future. It is not true. The future is an apathetic void of no interest to anyone. The past is full of life, eager to irritate us, provoke and insult us, tempt us to destroy or repaint it. The only reason people want to be masters of the future is to change the past." Well, we have changed the past and Europe is a different place from what it was in the post-war era. The four Nice leftovers are not small or casual affairs. Our view on the core issues is clear. We want to see a bigger role for national parliaments, on a systematic and constructive basis. We would welcome a clearer delineation of competences, as the Berlin Declaration by the European Democrat Union last month favoured, provided that it is not an excuse to strengthen the centre. Likewise, simplifying the Treaties would serve the public interest, but this must not be the pretext for introducing a fully-fledged European constitution, especially if the latter were the founding document of a federal state whose preamble was a legally-binding charter of rights. All of these issues need and deserve the widest possible public debate. But despite lip service to open consultation in the past, the Nice IGC process, like Amsterdam and Maastricht before it, was ultimately the preserve of national civil servants negotiating behind closed doors. The next consultation must be different. It needs to involve real and wide consultation throughout civil society, reflecting the open culture and open politics which we claim to favour. Mr Corbett quoted Chairman Mao. I would rather quote George Bush Senior: society is "a thousand points of light", not "a thousand flowers blooming". Our debate on the EU's institutional future must draw on all of society, harnessing not just the resources of a closed Brussels policy world but the democratic potential of the Internet and – yes – of opinion polls. The EU must sustain a truly open society. The people must have their say, including those in the candidate countries. We must also reschedule the next IGC. In 2004 we will see a lame-duck Commission on its last legs and the European election cutting across the IGC. Better to schedule the conference for 2003, with the 2004 European Parliament elections allowing a popular verdict on some of the key choices being made by governments with enlargement under way. There are important questions. In Britain, as in other countries facing general elections in the next couple of years, one of the central issues will be: in whose hands is the future of Europe safe? With the Council of Ministers and the Commission firmly in socialist hands, Europe today is going down the wrong track. In Britain the choice could not be clearer in our coming election: to guarantee a decentralised Europe that works, only the Conservatives offer an agenda which can get the post-Nice process right. To secure our European future, like the British, most people in Europe want to be in Europe but not run by Europe. – Madam President, following a point of order made by Mr Corbett, entirely correctly referring to the Rules on this, I should like to draw to the attention of the House that on the previous vote of the Bowe report, if everybody in this House who had an interest in pharmaceutical companies through shareholdings had declared an interest, we probably would not have arrived at the majority required. It is therefore important that Members do not need to abstain on the vote. They need only to make a declaration of interest in committee or in Parliament if they speak on the matter. Otherwise we shall find we are short of majorities on a number of votes where people legitimately have interests. Mr President, the bad news for the Commission and Council is that I expect to be back in the next Parliament and I am the rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy on the regulation covering third countries. It is quite clear that the Committee on Development and Cooperation is content with the operations under the European initiative for democracy and human rights and it is understandable that two-thirds of the money should now be released for next year. I am sure Mr Nielson is pleased about that. On the other hand, the Foreign Affairs Committee, which actually began this programme some twelve years ago - it was 1992 not 1994 and I was the original rapporteur - is not content. Its members have agreed that we should withdraw my report, which should have been debated today, to allow us time to put more pressure on the Commission and Council over the coming weeks to agree to two very simple requests. The first request is that an advisory committee should be set up – outside comitology, composed of representatives of Parliament and the Commission and probably chaired by the High Representative – to deal with this fundamentally sensitive programme, which should not necessarily involve the developing countries but rather the countries nearer to us - the 'new neighbourhood' as it is now described. The second request is that an independent study be conducted, and I await a serious offer from the Commission on this, not just 'we have an open mind'. The Commission does not have an open mind. It wants to keep the entire programme to itself. However, there is a better way of delivery, as is shown by the Americans, the Danes, the Germans, the Dutch, the Swedish and the British, and that is to have a separate foundation that is reliable, flexible and expert to assist the Commission in the delivery of the programme. That is our position and we look forward to some proper reaction from the Commission and Council to these suggestions in due course. The Commissioner said that this result was welcome and in everybody's interest. Is he talking about the hundreds of millions of people who live in the new neighbourhood, from Russia, Belarus and the Ukraine, through the Caucuses and down through the arc of instability across North Africa to Morocco, into the Arab world? Two hundred and eighty million Arabs live without democracy. Is he proud of that? I now have to address my remarks to the Press because we have an election coming up and in today's  I write that 'Europe's power risks being so soft that it can hardly be felt by the people to whom it is addressed'. Unfortunately, this welcome programme, brilliantly implemented in the former-Soviet bloc, is totally ineffective in today's world. It is the Commission's responsibility to make it effective and I intend to press very hard to ensure that it does. – Mr President, I do not want to delay the House, but colleagues may recall that on 14 February there was some discussion at the opening of the part-session regarding a broadcast on the  programme and Mr Kirkhope, who is a Member of this House. I should like to read the following apology which was broadcast by the BBC last Monday: "On February 14 2000, the BBC broadcast a report about a new Register of Members' interests in the European Parliament, making particular reference to the interests declared by the Conservative Chief Whip, Mr Timothy Kirkhope. The report, which was later referred to on BBC News, contained a number of inaccuracies. Mr Kirkhope has not turned himself into a political consultant and has not and does not lobby the European Parliament. In addition, the BBC report implied that he will for a fee advise on how to handle things in the European Parliament which the BBC accepts is not the case. The BBC is happy to make this clear and has apologised to Mr Kirkhope for the errors." – Madam President, in these circumstances, I must put to you a personal question. But if you voted on this then I will not put the question. Did you vote on this matter? – Madam President, I refer to the draft regulation on European political parties. At the last part-session in Strasbourg the Commission was going to give us a statement on that matter. Subsequently, it was withdrawn and I understand that the Commission has now come to a view on the funding of European political parties. This is a matter of some sensitivity, especially since there are certain parties represented in this House that might regard themselves, for some reason, as ineligible for such funding, even if they approved of the funding in the first place. Could you ask the Commission if it would make a statement on this matter at some stage before the House? Secondly, Madam President, while we are on Tuesday's agenda, it is worrying to me that the European Parliament is holding a debate on the Commission's work programme for 2001 but does not have a resolution on that matter. This is especially important since there are some 200 measures contained in the Commission's work programme for 2001 which Parliament will debate, but on which it will have no resolution. This is a bad precedent. There should be a resolution, especially since we are supposed to be scrutinising the work of the Commission. Finally, could I make the observation that far from being the Commission's work programme for 2001, we might rename it the work programme of the Commission, Parliament and Council. – The President-in-Office made an extremely interesting remark in passing in the first half of his first answer when he referred to the President of the Commission having been a former Member of the European Council. So it is in order for people who have been members of other EU institutions to express an opinion in their present position. The President-in-Office was a very distinguished Member of this Parliament so he is therefore able to express an opinion, by his own words, on the state of the Council now. Would you agree Mr President-in-Office of the Council, based on your experience in the Parliament, that we do need separation of the powers and will you be urging the Danish presidency to put this forward at the Convention? Commissioner, as you know, organised crime is growing very strongly. It is mainly based outside the Union, but it is attacking our citizens and can cross internal frontiers inside the Union with total facility. There are record amounts of heroin coming in, cocaine, attacks on the Internet increasing every day, trafficking of illegal immigrants, of women and of children. There are vast amounts of money laundering, enormous quantities of counterfeit goods and currency hitting us as well. You know this as well as I. It is very frightening. However, our law enforcement agencies are only national or local and they cannot cross our internal frontiers. National politicians do not get credit for fighting crime outside their own countries. All in all, we are failing to fight international organised crime and that is why it is getting stronger. I have just presented you with a pamphlet. I also gave the press a copy this afternoon at a press conference. It is called 'Europe Needs an FBI'. Commissioner, I echo the other sentiments – you have been a very good Commissioner in this area. I hope, whether you stay here or go on to something else, that you will help to stir the national politicians who so far have lacked the will to muster the necessary weapons to fight international crime. – I am sure that the President-in-Office has noticed that five of the first 16 questions on the order paper, the previous question from Mrs Frassoni, and so on, are all about transparency. Since we represent the public – the people of Europe – I hope that the Council notes that there is a wish for transparency in the Council. My question is this: is it correct that the decision within the Council on which documents are to be released to the public and which are kept secret is made by a committee of the 15 press officers from the national representation offices by a majority vote? I was told this by one of the 15 press officers. They sit there, completely unelected, and decide what is going to be published and what is not. Is that really true because it is very hard to believe? – Commissioner, thank you very much, that is very promising. When the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs debated this Commission proposal on which I was a rapporteur, we found that none of us in the Committee were aware at all; and I wonder if the public listening to Question Time in the gallery are aware either. So there is still a great deal to do. Thank you for your offer to send me more information. I accept your offer and since we 626 MEPs are the contact between the EU and the public, would you like to write each of us a simple little letter making all of us in the Parliament aware of it? You could just print these off in the eleven languages and every Member will become conscious of it and we could all help to publicise this European Union facility in our Member States! – That was such a comprehensive reply that I cannot think of a supplementary question, so I will not ask one. – Madam President, Rule 2 of our Rules of Procedure says that we all sit here as individuals, not as agents of political parties and we do not take orders from outside.  The essence of democracy is that individuals have guaranteed rights against the state. The Conservatives, I am sorry to say, are now wishing to introduce a new doctrine that political parties have power over individuals. That is the beginning of totalitarianism and that is why I left them. – Thank you Commissioner for a very full answer. Everybody is aware that this is very difficult. My point is one that was raised with me by a minister in Ljubljana. All the crossings, whether they are legal or illegal, will be used by terrorists, smugglers, immigrants, criminals and so on. Therefore it is a very serious problem. The minister also said to me: we cannot pay; we do not have the money to man all these crossings! So Slovenia has got a real problem. There are nine other applicant countries – if I leave aside Cyprus and Malta where it is presumably easier to control the borders – so we have ten applicant countries, all with problems like this, without enough money to meet the cost. Is there any possibility that the Commission might propose that the Union takes on a responsibility for guarding our eastern borders? – Just to show that this question is not only of interest to Swedish Members of the European Union but to other nationalities as well, is this new procedure in the Council in operation? If not, when will it be in operation? In other words, when can I get my first document out of the Council? It is stated that in the second part of question time each Commissioner will answer for half an hour. The poor Commissioner has spent more than half an hour on this section and I suggest we now move on to the third part of question time. – The third part of my question is slightly broader. I ask by what authority can the validity of a CE mark be challenged? The Commissioner has said in his first answer that it was not the Commission that would make a ruling and in his second supplementary he said that it would be the competent national authority. Is there any system of mutual recognition of a ruling by one national authority, or would it be necessary to challenge the use of a CE mark on something like a stun gun separately in each of the 15 Member States? Is there not some overall body that can say this is valid? It seems to be a very long-winded process if it has to be challenged 15 separate times. – I am very disappointed by what the Council has done. If you boast about 43,000 documents I wonder if you have actually visited the Internet site? This is a very small mouse that you have managed to produce so far. Forty-three thousand sounds like a lot. But anybody can produce 43,000 documents. It is what they say that matters. They are very slow in arriving. You cannot find out how votes went in the Council. That is still secret. You cannot find a  of what people actually said in the Council. That is still secret. It is deeply inadequate what you have done. In answer to the last question, Mr President, you said that transparency was one of the great priorities of the Finnish Presidency. The Finnish nation is famous for its openness but so far we have reached November in your Presidency and this is still a disaster. Would you please try and improve the register which is, as I said, a very small mouse. There is still a long way to go. – I wish to thank my friend, the Commissioner, whom I have always found very helpful. This was an extremely full and helpful reply. I am sure that Parliament is most appreciative. One matter surprised me a little, although I will read his reply in detail to study it, and this is the police unit set up within the Council. Am I right in assuming that command of a police force which is sent by us actually rests in the final analysis with the Council and not with the Commission, even though policing is demonstrably a peacekeeping and not a military operation? – Mr President, I would like to try to put a different perspective to this. As you know, on Monday an unmanned spacecraft went into orbit around a peanut-shaped asteroid called Eros which is not very far from earth. Photographs show us that there is no life on the asteroid, but much further out in our galaxy, the Milky Way, there are about 300 billion stars, many with planets. Beyond the Milky Way there are 300 billion other galaxies with countless stars and planets. It is probable, therefore, that there is a lot of life out there, and much of it much more advanced than we are. Bearing in mind that the first television programmes from earth are now 50 light years out into space way beyond the nearest stars, I invite you to imagine with me what life out there in the stars thinks of us as they look at us. What do they see? They see a beautiful planet, teeming with life, but they see its atmosphere being polluted and warming up. They see forests being cut down and deserts spreading. Of the living creatures, they can see many animals that are treated cruelly, rare ones becoming extinct for ever. How do they see the currently dominant species – that is us? Well, they see the planet's resources being unevenly spread. They see land being fought over, medicine for disease but not in the parts of the world where it is most wanted, books for schools – but not at all in the least-developed areas of our world, 50% of the world's population never making a telephone call in their whole life. What do they see about the relationships between human beings? They see us killing each other. They see us restricting each other's liberties. They see a never-ending series of local wars. They see some of our children drafted into the army as soldiers, or treated as prostitutes or slaves. They see unequal treatment of men and women, of people of different ages, of minorities, of people of different coloured skins, of races, of beliefs, of immigrants, even neighbours. We all know the picture. The UN Convention on Human Rights 50 years ago was an attempt to correct this. We should salute it – and I think we do. Only in Europe are human rights enforceable in law. Here in the European Parliament some of the Members do not want the Charter of Rights, which is being discussed at the moment, to become enforceable in law. I say: shame on them! Human rights should be enforceable in law in every country of the world. That is the goal which we have to work towards. Much, as Commissioner Patten said, remains to be done. Finally, if you asked me: What if there is no life out there among the stars, what if we are alone? – which is an equally awe-inspiring thought – I would say: Do not you think we have a responsibility too to make our children behave properly, before letting them go out to populate other planets? – Mr President, nearly ten years ago, in the early 1990s, I travelled through the Khyber Pass, a trip I can strongly recommend to all colleagues – though perhaps not at this moment. At the top there is a small village where you can buy food, water and "souvenirs". The "souvenirs" are drugs, home-made Kalashnikovs and home-made surface-to-air rocket launchers. With the money I had on me I calculated that I could buy ten Kalashnikovs or three rocket launchers. The only problem was how to get them home through customs, so I did not buy them! Coming forward to 10 October this year, at the United Nations in New York there was a speech by the American Assistant Secretary for Arms Control. He used wonderful sounding sentences, such as "we must redouble our non-proliferation and arms control efforts", "the entire globe faces a security challenge!" But he had no proposals at all for controlling small arms. Why? Because the extremely powerful and wealthy organisation called The National Rifle Association – the NRA – helped to elect the present administration, which will therefore not stand up to the Association. With the events of 11 September and the high murder rate inside the United States of America, I wonder just what it will take for America to cooperate with the rest of the world on this problem. My Group supports the motion because it is a small step in the right direction. – Mr President, actions such as we are debating today must be underpinned by democratic legitimacy. I am sure that we all agree. The problem is how to do it. At the moment the CFSP is a mixture of national attitudes and European attitudes and the particular subject we are debating today of course only involves one single Member State of the European Union. So how do we provide the democratic legitimacy when we are all involved? Two or three weeks ago there was a Conference in Stockholm of the chairmen of the defence committees of the fifteen national parliaments and the European Parliament to debate exactly this question – how to exercise democratic control over European policies and foreign affairs and defence. Although no conclusion could be reached in a single day, I can tell you that they have set up a working party between the chairmen and intend to meet again and to come up with a conclusion. This Parliament has proposed various mechanisms for introducing this legitimacy. We have proposed setting up an interparliamentary body between members of the NATO Assembly and our Foreign Affairs Committee. Another proposal has been a joint interparliamentary body between national parliaments and Members of this Parliament. I very much welcomed the statement just now from the President-in-Office saying that this Parliament must play a role. But what I would greatly appreciate from the Presidency is a statement of how precisely they plan to do this, because in the various treaties we have had recently and the European Councils, there has been no suggestion of how this might be achieved. – Mr President-in-Office, from what you have just said, is there therefore an understanding or an expectation in E-11 that after they have had an informal discussion about the euro in Euro-11, they will all vote the same way when they go to Ecofin, even if they disagreed originally? Is there a procedural expectation that all eleven will vote the same way in the formal decision-making in Ecofin? – I also would like to express my pleasure at seeing the President-in-Office of the Council here. As a friend and colleague it is very nice to see him back and, if ever things go wrong in Copenhagen, I am sure we would be very delighted to see him back in one of these seats. However, let us not talk about that bad possibility, until it happens. Thank you for your answer to my question. I understand that the question of the seat is really for another place, though it would save a lot of energy if we eliminated this building. I am particularly interested since the EU institutions should be setting a lead. I hope we are setting an example to the world by trying to save on energy conservation. So I would suggest that if I table a question to the President-in-Office for the December part-session, perhaps he will give me an undertaking that he will tell me specifically what the Council has done with its own buildings as regards saving energy and setting an example to the world: energy-efficient light switches, for example, or any other measures that the Council is going to adopt within the next six months to set an example to the world. – Mr President, we have not discussed it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, but my personal view is that we should not accept urgency now. – Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the President-in-Office on getting through so many answers in this Question Time. You may have beaten the record. I do not know what the record is, but you have been very good. Secondly, I note your statement that this procedure will start on time on 3 December. Everyone in Parliament and the public is delighted to hear that and thank you for your very full reply. Can I just ask: is the next step to open up Council meetings to the public when you are legislating so we can see what you are doing? Then we would have real democracy in the Council. Will you do that next? – I understand the technicalities and thank the Minister for that. But would the Council be in favour of repealing Article 296 of the EC Treaty, in other words, disallowing the exemption from the single market provisions and so introducing competition into defence procurement? Mr President, I cannot support the Perry report. This is an internal British squabble. Continental taxes should not be spent on trying to sort this out when a British court is already hard at work trying to solve the problem. I am amazed to see British Conservatives attacking a national British institution when I do not believe that Frenchmen, Spaniards or Germans would do the same to their own national institutions. They should be ashamed. Secondly, this is about posturing, spin and leading on the Names – who, I admit, are unhappy about this – by making them believe that something can come out of this, when nothing can. This is going to run into the sand. It would be much fairer to tell them – as I have done in replying to letters I have received – that we are very sorry but we cannot help them. We should not be spinning and pretending otherwise. Thank you for the reply, Commissioner, which sounds encouraging. I am aware of what a terrible minefield this proposal is going to be. Take the example of the arrest warrant, which all the Member States have ratified but only eight have transposed into national law. It is going to be very difficult to get this proposal through, but you have the backing of our committee. Two big obstacles lie ahead of you. There is a problem of mutual recognition versus standardisation. Standardisation would be better, but mutual recognition is the easier approach. How are you going to achieve that and ensure it works when there is the European Convention on Human Rights, and every smart lawyer will immediately say that he does not recognise somebody else's ability to pass judgement and is going to appeal to Strasbourg? How are you going to make this work in practice? It is going to be very difficult and I look forward to receiving some reassurance from you. – Madam President, thank you and thank you to the services who, I realise, I am delaying from enjoying their lunch. I want to emphasise my support for a European police training college and for increasing the competences for Europol provided, of course, there is full democratic control over their activities. I have talked to the public a lot about this subject and I find that they would welcome a much greater ability to act against international crime and organised crime which increasingly crosses our frontiers. There are over 100 separate police forces in the European Union, over 50 in my own Member State. Their separateness weakens their ability to deal with increasing and unquantified amounts of crime across Europe. So I predict the need for a capability for our police to operate across frontiers is going to become increasingly obvious and increasingly urgent. – Mr President, I welcome strongly the fact that the 700 pages are going to be published. They are of course legally binding on the citizens of Europe. But what about the future when more of these laws are going to be passed in the Council of Ministers? They will be passed in total secrecy. The public in the gallery, we Members, the press cannot watch law-making going on. What is the attitude of the Finnish presidency towards law-making in secret, because at the moment the Council of Ministers is only matched by Beijing and North Korea in passing laws over citizens in secret? Should not it be in the open and will you do something about it? . – Mr President, I want to propose a technical oral amendment to Amendment No 28. I apologise for not spotting the technicality in committee. Amendment No 28 reads at present: "The Community shall each year set a global ceiling for funding action under this Regulation." As Commissioner Patten pointed out during the debate, it is not the "Community" which sets the budgetary ceiling, it is the Budgetary Authority. I should like to propose orally that we delete the word "Community" and insert instead the words "Budgetary Authority", so that the amendment would now read: "The Budgetary Authority shall each year set a global ceiling for funding action under this Regulation." – I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a very long, detailed and serious reply. Because I do not speak Portuguese I shall study the reply before the next question time and come back to you on it in April. For now I would like you to give me a very simple reply to a very simple question of principle. Do you accept that for legislation in a democratic environment, in which we are in the European Union, the public, whom the laws affect, should be able to see and hear what their elected representatives are doing to pass the laws? I do not think it is the case in the Council that the public is actually able to see and hear everything that their representatives say and do when passing laws. Would you accept that principle? – Thank you, Mr President and thank you President-in-Office of the Council. I am sure the President-in-Office of the Council is a very nice man and is very kind to his wife and his children and his dog. However, forgive me if I am a little sceptical of the reply you have just given me. I do not believe that the statements made within the Council and the votes are available to the public immediately. Will you please therefore undertake, before the next plenary in February, to write and tell me where I can find this information on behalf of the public, immediately the Council has passed legislation, rather than waiting for it to come out weeks later on a press release list. Will you write to me before the next plenary with that information? – Mr President, the challenge confronting us is how Europe can do more for crisis prevention and management, and the proposals which we are debating are the only way we can achieve that more effectively. I congratulate the Commissioner on the lead he is setting for greater efficiency not only in aid, but also in this area. I thank him particularly for his undertaking to examine my proposal for a European public security force, because there are several organisations across Europe which could offer experience, not least the Royal Ulster Constabulary in Northern Ireland. I want to address a word to people in London. It is reported in the newspapers that certain people in London are saying they would end the EU's involvement in the defence process. To London I say: you cannot do that; be realistic! You could possibly end the UK's involvement, but you cannot stop what the European Union is doing. Please face reality. This is a valuable new development in which we are involved and which we are debating. We must try to shape it positively. I look forward to further debate on these questions, being Parliament's rapporteur on the Rapid Reaction Facility that we will be dealing with later in the year. . The Liberal Democrat delegation did not vote with the rest of the ELDR Group on the Schmidt report. We voted against Amendments Nos 1 to 13 and the proposal, as we wished the proposal in its current form to be withdrawn. Our reason for doing so is that we believe VAT on postal services, especially in respect of securing a universal service for packages below two kilogrammes, is a matter best left to national governments under the principle of subsidiarity. However, we remain open to considering future proposals aimed at ensuring greater competition. – Last month when I asked a supplementary question in Question Time, this President-in-Office simply avoided giving me a supplementary by saying: "I can only repeat my previous answer" and reading out the previous answer again. This time I will give him a chance not to read out the previous answer but ask him for an undertaking and an agreement. Does the President-in-Office agree that there should be no decision made on this proposal until there has been a full impact assessment of the effect on the Union, the ACP countries and the LDC countries? Yes or no? Mr President, the Liberal Group suspects that the government of Israel is applying the origin rules of the Association Agreement in a way that derives from its settlement policies. No other explanation can justify the proofs of origin being issued to both manufactured and agricultural products – produced in settlements – which we consider illegal and therefore not covered by the agreement. These include chives, non-woven textiles, wine, snack foods and so on. Although they are given customs access by the EU, they are actually produced in West Bank settlements such as Barkan, the Golan Heights settlement of Katzrin and the Gaza Strip settlement of Gush Katif. This is not a new issue. We know that the Member States are unable to reliably distinguish which consignments are eligible and which are not. We know that the Commission has compiled a list of settlement products and exporters, and is trying to expand the list. We know the list is incomplete and that Member States have not found it possible to identify, when shipments are presented for clearance, what products they contain. The situation cannot continue for two reasons. Firstly, Liberals attach great importance to rules; here we are seeing a consistent, persistent breaking of the rules. We recognise there are difficulties. The Commission and the Member States bear separate and full responsibility for this, since they both have obligations to act to solve the problem. It may be that those in the Commission who want to discharge their guardianship responsibility have insufficient political support within the Commission. The Member States that want to help have insufficient support in the Council. That is why this Parliament and the Member State parliaments need to act. Above all, it is the duty of the government of Israel not to play tricks with a signed agreement. Israel should understand that this is not the time to do that. Unless they respect the clauses of the Association Agreement, the Israelis will have difficulty in convincing the rest of the world that they are acting in good faith in issues such as the peace process as a whole. . – Mr President, I am not going to speak about lobsters, but I share the interests of the two previous speakers. Mr President, you know everything by definition, so you already know the opinion of the Industry Committee. In case there are any colleagues here who do not know, it is my role to report it. There was a broad spread of opinions in the Industry Committee, as I shall briefly describe. I will summarise a number of key points which our discussions centred around. First of all, perhaps most importantly, should the scheme be compulsory or should there be opt-outs or exemptions? There were a number of voices from certain national quarters asking for exemptions. Other committee members believed that if we allowed exemptions, everyone would ask for one and there would be no directive, so there was a dilemma there. There was also a concern that the benefits that the cutbacks already achieved in certain Member States will not necessarily be rewarded adequately. This should be taken care of. There was general agreement that from 2008 the directive should be compulsory. Regarding allocation of allowances, the Committee is against auctioning. It seems to be a waste of resources when the industry should be using it to cut back. The Committee is interested in including other sectors, even perhaps in transport and private housing, although this will be difficult to achieve. We are in favour of including the other five greenhouse gases, although measurement is an important question. On comitology and whether the Commission should be allowed to decide the future details, we are firmly, unanimously against. We want full co-decision for the next directive when it is proposed. We want the other parts of the world to pay attention because what we do is useless unless the Americans, Russians and Asians are involved as well. Finally, a personal point, the public should be allowed to buy quotas because we want to involve the citizens in European activities and in saving the world. – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for what seems to be a very satisfactory answer and to congratulate her on the newspapers she chooses to read, or rather chooses not to read. – Thank you for that reply. When I tabled this question there was in fact a log-jam in the Council and there was no discussion, which was the purpose for tabling the question. But I welcome the fact that now there is movement within the Council and that we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs actually have a copy of your latest document saying what the compromise looks to be. Mr President-in-Office, you want Parliament's opinion and we understand you propose taking a decision next month in December. If I tell you that Parliament will be debating this in January, I should like to know if you will wait for our opinion before you take your decision? – Mr President, I voted against Amendment No 54 which would have allowed a derogation from our yield limits on cigarettes exported to third countries. All cigarettes are harmful. None do any good. Smoking is an addiction, indeed a slow suicide, as we have voted, and manufacturers have admitted and known for some time that it causes cancer and other diseases. I agree that third countries should set their own health rules but we should not approve of double standards. If we choose tight protection for our citizens we should not allow the exporting of more dangerous products which profit from the addiction of others. No man is an island. All human beings are involved with each other. I cannot condone profiting from the ill-health of third world citizens. Thank you very much for that full, helpful and informative reply. I should like to add my congratulations to the Irish for the leadership they are showing on this difficult question. I attended the conference on organised crime in Dublin before Christmas, it was excellent and the Irish showed great leadership. I congratulate you very much on the initiative you are showing. Is there a chain of command for these liaison officers from the EU who are going to be posted in Albania? Who do they report to? Do they each report to their own national capital? Do they report to Europol in The Hague? Is there somebody in charge? How is it organised? The great problem here with policing – as you must know even better than I – is that individual nationalities and forces are reluctant to cooperate. They each try to keep the information they have to themselves. What we need is much more coordination and cooperation, even between EU police forces. Can you give me any assurance that this is happening? Who is in charge? Who liaises with whom? – I want to speak about the Karamanou report on Europol. Everybody who has spoken agrees that it is a very valuable initiative and we support what it says. However, as many speakers have said, there is not enough democratic control and accountability. That is the main focus of the cross-party amendments which the Committee is putting forward. We want to see parliamentary involvement in the appointments of the director, and by a majority vote because, when we have enlargement to 28 Member States, it will be very difficult to find everybody agreeing on the identity of the director. It has to be by a majority vote – we propose two-thirds – and we also want parliamentary involvement in the dismissal of the director, if ever that becomes necessary, by a two-thirds vote as well. We want parliamentary involvement in the management board. We could enormously improve democratic accountability and control. And we want the Court to be involved in disputes. These things are in the amendments and, judging by the debate in the committee, I am very hopeful that Parliament will vote for them. However, I want to look for just a few moments at the future, and at what comes beyond this proposal. I see two signs, one good and one bad. The bad development in the future which many colleagues have spoken about – including my friend, Mr Andrews – is the remorseless growth in organised crime which we are seeing across Europe. The opening of frontiers for the single market was a thoroughly good idea but it has also helped the Mafia, and criminals from Eastern Europe to spread their tentacles across our Union. When we get enlargement, which is the good aspect of the future that I see, we are going to find it more and more difficult to counter organised crime. The criminals can move freely across frontiers but our police forces cannot. Already today there are about 120 different police forces in the European Union, most of them, I may say, in my own Member State, because in the United Kingdom we have a police force in every single county and they only work up to their county borders. We have far too many police forces already and we are going to have even more once we have completed enlargement, our ability to deal with organised crime is going to be very much less than it should be. What we need is for Europol to be given operational capability across frontiers. At public meetings, when I talk about the growth in organised crime, the response invariably from the public is, “Well, what are you doing about it? Get on with it. Take the necessary powers. Organise the police forces so we can deal with the growth in crime.” The public is in favour and – as very often happens – is ahead of us and the Council of Ministers. I should very much like to hear the Commissioner’s reaction to the idea that when we hopefully get the concept of enhanced cooperation accepted at the Nice Summit next month that we create a European FBI. We do not have to call it a European FBI, but that is the logical next step. It would have full public support and it is necessary for the future. – Mr President, I am standing in for Mr Clegg, the rapporteur. I have just spoken to him. He is ill in bed, but, you will be glad to know, he will be with us again shortly. He wanted me to say that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party welcomes this very strongly because it is a major breakthrough in the single market and for the Lisbon agreement into a sector which has previously been closed. We welcome strongly and fully support the compromise on labelling and unbundling and on the dates of market opening. However, the principal point that the Liberal Group would like to make is about the funds for decommissioning in the nuclear sector. We want to support and thank the Commission for its revised declaration. Previously the Commission had told us that funds from the Euratom Treaty would be sufficient for the decommissioning. However, as everybody knows, the Euratom funds are not subject to proper transparency and accountability. Now that the Commission has told us that the competition provisions will apply fully in this sector, we are extremely pleased because this means openness and transparency and proper rule for the single market. My group will vote in favour of this tomorrow. That was a very full and helpful reply, Commissioner. In relation to your comment that you could not necessarily infer the issues in my question, I should like to point out that I was directly quoting the head of a police intelligence service in London, who was commenting on the effects of Turkish heroin in the UK. As a supplementary, I should like to ask you about the 'small Dublin group' to be set up in Ankara. In your own words, could you define that term for me? Thank you for that reply, Commissioner. I am very pleased that at least you have taken note of the idea. I suggest that the Commission's reluctance to take any further steps and propose legislation will now encourage businesses across Europe that are rather slapdash about protecting private data, as they will now be able to say that there will not be any legislation to punish them so they can easily let this slip. I fear that our exchange in the Chamber now creates the need for legislation to stop lazy companies from letting private data fall into the wrong hands. Do you agree? – Europol, which you mentioned, is only an information collection and exchange centre. Do you think that it should be given operational powers to follow drug traffickers moving across Europe? – Mr President, my group, the Liberal Group, wants to make three points, largely in the form of questions. First of all – and this point will appear in the compromise resolution which is not yet in print but it is certainly in our own resolution – my colleague, Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne, points out that the United Nations is extremely slow, or has been in the past, to respond when there are reports of breaches of use of these weapons. For example, when Saddam Hussein, in the early 90s, used these weapons in the marshes of Iraq, it took the United Nations three and a half weeks to get inspectors there, giving Saddam Hussein plenty of time to cover up the evidence of his crimes. Would the Council kindly point out to the United Nations that we need a much quicker response than three and a half weeks if such incidents happen in future, as we fear may happen. Secondly – and this appears in the Liberal Group's resolution and also in the compromise resolution – the anthrax problem in the United States has drawn all our attention to the need to react quickly and to analyse what is happening. There is no European Union-wide agency looking at this although, in the USA, there is the Centre for Disease Control in Atlanta. Would the Commission be willing to undertake to propose the creation of a European Union agency, under its control, which would coordinate the work of the relevant national agencies in our Member States in the field of communicable diseases? That would speed up our reaction and help us on a Union basis. My third question is addressed to the Council. I hope it is a hypothetical question. If the investigations in the USA show that the anthrax outbreak came from Iraq and therefore American public opinion becomes overwhelmingly in favour of an attack on Iraq and – I imagine that George Bush would find it very hard to resist such overwhelming public opinion – what would be the Council's position? Would we encourage the EU to attack Iraq as well, or would we try to hold George Bush back? Has the Council considered this? Thank you, Commissioner, for a helpful and very informative reply. I do not think any blame for the problem lies with you because you do not have many battalions at your disposal! You can only set a lead. The price of heroin going down would suggest that the supply of heroin is increasing. We know that the crop in Afghanistan is getting bigger and bigger, and with the use of cannabis and synthetic drugs ever growing, clearly we are not winning the battle. So my question is: how can we strengthen policing in Europe in the fight against the use and the distribution of drugs? – Mr President, may I thank the Commissioner very much for his very positive reply about cooperation with Parliament. I am sure all my colleagues are very grateful. This particular subject is of great concern to British sugar beet growers as you can imagine, because it is about the only crop that is profitable in the UK at the moment. I represent some growers and I am thus very concerned indeed. I note, incidentally, that British Conservatives claim to represent the countryside in the UK, yet not one of them is present in the Chamber to ask you a question. Would you please tell us what you think the impact on the price of sugar will be in the UK as a result of your proposal? – Thank you for that very full reply, Mr President-in-Office. Since the budget will become European Union operational on 1 January, will the budget for the Satellite Centre be part of the European security and defence budget, which the Council will put forward and which Parliament can debate and amend, as necessary? Will it be budgetised within the EU's normal financial procedures? – In other words – no, but it was a very nicely wrapped-up reply. Mr President-in-Office, you and I agree on the goals of trying to inform the European public, not just in Brussels but everywhere, of what we are doing. I suggest that you should try – or get your staff to try – to sell the idea to television companies. Although your Prime Minister will make a wonderful speech here in the plenary in July, reporting on the presidency, a speech in this chamber is not the same as a comfortable talk to the peoples of Europe. If you think of the way that President Clinton did it, it is not the same thing. I really do urge you – the publications, the seminars, the debates that you organise in Brussels are not the way to reach 300 million people the length and breadth of Europe. A nice TV chat by the Swedish Prime Minister would be a very good beginning and it is not good enough just to do it in this chamber. – Up in the gallery, listening to you and me, are visitors. Everything is open here in Parliament. They can hear what we are discussing and agree or disagree. But the Council of Ministers meets in secret. Maybe you can slide out of this example and say it is a Member State talking to the Commission and they send them a letter. Nevertheless these matters are done in secret. If we – you and I – want the public to understand and agree with the decisions we take, surely you agree with me that it must be done in public? – Mr President, the President-in-Office mentioned a forthcoming decision about putting some documents of the Council in the public domain on the Internet. Does the Council intend to respect fully the decision of the Ombudsman whereby, if I understand it correctly, all Council documents have to be made available to the public and not just some? – I am very pleased to see the President-in-Office here, as a former Member of Parliament. Will he, in the Nice Treaty or in the negotiations leading up to the Treaty of Nice at the end of the year, propose codecision between Parliament and the Council on matters of common foreign and security policy? This is to be the lower House, as the President of the Republic told us this morning and if we are to carry public opinion with us in security and defence matters we need a proper position. So does he agree that codecision is the way forward in this policy area? – I must say I think most Members will think that a six-month delay is exceedingly disappointing, but it is nice to hear something positive. Can you indicate to us what the possible obstacles are? Does anybody have a veto on this date of 3 December or can you give us a guarantee that it is actually going to happen? You are not going to tell us at the end of the Belgian presidency: I am so sorry it slipped; somebody got it in the way! Can you guarantee it is going to happen or does someone have a veto? – Mr President, you said that recorded votes cost 4 million from Parliament’s budget. Could you ask the Committee on Rules of Procedure to look at the following point: we all respect the principles of power with responsibility and subsidiarity so every time a group asks for a recorded vote could a certain sum be debited from the budget allocated to it by Parliament? . I voted for 'Opt Out'. The opposite, an 'Opt-In' regime for Europe, would be entirely ineffective. If the EU legislates to try to restrict the sending of emails, whether for marketing, or fundraising, or political messages, the emails will still be sent to receivers within the EU – but from outside the EU. Indeed, I am tempted by the thought of setting up a little business in somewhere sunny like a Carribean island from where I would spray unlimited emails into the EU from EU businesses in return for a nice fat fee. This business could not exist in the EU. The well-meaning EU, if it chooses 'Opt In', will do two harmful things : it will handicap EU-based businesses against their worldwide competitors, and it will transfer jobs outside the EU. The road to hell, they say, is paved with good intentions. 'Spam' needs to be controlled – but it can only be controlled by global legislation and cooperation. – Mr President, my Group wishes to associate itself with the other supportive remarks made following Mr Galeote Quecedo's shocking announcement of the latest murder. We are fully in sympathy with the Spanish people and very sorry to hear about it. This problem with the submarine has to be settled calmly and with full cooperation between all interested, relevant authorities. Calm cooperation is the method which our Union uses. Hence I am happy to support the call by the Commissioner for as much transparency as possible and the publication of the British Government's letter. I felt, listening to the Commissioner's excellent report, growing confidence that the matter is being handled in the proper way. The two major criteria which we have to study are the question of technical safety – a number of Members have spoken about that already – and gaining the full confidence of the public that everything is being handled in the way it should. I am a Member who once used to represent Gibraltar as well as the constituency which I was elected to. So I would like to say something about the overall problem. We are all democrats here by definition. In the Union we all try to look forward and not back to disagreements in the past. We all support the right of self-determination. I count my very dear Spanish colleagues among my best friends in Parliament. Mr Galeote Quecedo and I shared a delegation earlier this year and got on very well. So I should like to say to them that the way is open, in my opinion, for Spain to regain the sovereignty of Gibraltar if it really wishes to. All they have to do is to gain the confidence of the Gibraltarian people who live on the Rock. At some point there may be another referendum among the people on the Rock asking: "Under whose sovereignty do you wish to live?" The key is to win their votes. The way to do it is to make the Gibraltarian people feel entirely comfortable with the idea of being part of Spain. So do not create difficulties at the frontiers and slow things down; do not create difficulties with air transportation; let there be free movement of people by road, sea and air and let us solve this problem in a calm, cooperative manner and not – as one has seen in some of the resolutions tabled by the smaller groups – in an emotive manner. I am full of confidence concerning what the Commissioner has said so far and look forward to his winding-up remarks. – Mr President, the fact that negotiations are taking place is no secret: that was why I was able to ask the question – we do not disagree on that – but the problem lies in the content. It is awfully nice of the Council to tell us that it will inform us afterwards, but we – the only democratic body in the EU – would like to be consulted as it negotiates whether or not it is currently written in the Treaty. The principle is real exposure. I have a suspicion that the President-in-Office is personally in favour of transparency. He should therefore tell us what is really going on. I would like to wish the President-in-Office a happy Christmas and say thanks to him for being with us over the last six months, because I have a terrible feeling that we will not see him again. That was a very full reply and I will need to study it. I was at the conference organised by the Irish Government recently. It made progress and that was why I tabled this question. If we do not have a common definition of what organised crime is, and if we do not have the ability to collect statistics across the European Union, how can we possibly know how to fight against organised crime? I am grateful that progress is being made, but I am particularly interested to know whether you are including in this the ten accession countries which will be joining in May. Regrettably, a lot of the organised crime which affects us derives from Central and Eastern Europe. – I wonder whether the Commissioner would agree that the last two questioners who were asking the Commission for action would do better to ask their own party leader, Mr Blair, to get the over-high level of the pound – which has been kept too high by high interest rates in the UK – down to a realistic level; and also try to get Mr Blair to start campaigning to join the euro, when there would be extra transparency. Would that not help? – This is a very uncontentious, uncontroversial report except for just one single point, which involves everybody who is listening. The proposal is to develop a computerised image archiving system to help detect forged travel documents. I imagine that we all agree that is worth doing. So what is the single point of controversy? It is whether this decision is going to be made behind closed doors in Brussels by officials and ministers, or whether there will be parliamentary scrutiny. Fifteen national parliaments cannot do so, because it is a European proposal and this task will fall to us if to anybody. Now the history of this proposal is that in January of this year, the Commission put forward the same proposal and said its purpose was to detect documents brought in by illegal immigrants. The proposal lapsed when the Amsterdam Treaty came into effect in May. It has now been retabled by the German Government, as a national government is entitled to do, under the Amsterdam Treaty. However, the problem is that the German Government says its purpose is to deal with I quote 'crime' and leaves out the word immigration. Why? Because under the Amsterdam Treaty, immigration questions are transferred from the third pillar to the first pillar and become the responsibility, for the first time, of Parliament. However, criminal matters remain in the third pillar and we have no area of scrutiny, no responsibility at all. Therefore, the German Government in my submission is seeking to avoid parliamentary scrutiny of its proposal. The committee did not like that. The Committee on Citizens' Freedoms invited the Finnish Presidency and the German Government to come and answer our questions about the proposal. The Finnish Presidency replied in a letter to the committee that it would not come, it would not answer our questions. However, it did say that we could ask put questions in plenary. Well, here we are in the plenary – where is the Council of Ministers? Everybody can see that the seats are empty except for one charming lady in grey who is an official and is not allowed to speak. But I hope she will take away this message. The fact that the German Government has sought to avoid parliamentary scrutiny altogether by keeping this under the third pillar and the fact that the Finnish Presidency has not even turned up to answer our questions either in committee or in plenary is, I am sorry to say, a great stain on the reputation of the Finns, who previously had a wonderful reputation for openness and democracy. I am also very sorry that they are not here to answer my accusation. To conclude, the committee has voted to change the legal base so that this matter comes back under the first pillar, because this proposal is primarily about detecting forged documents carried by illegal immigrants. I am asking everyone who is here to vote tomorrow morning to support the committee, to establish parliamentary control over this new area of policy, which is our remit under the Amsterdam Treaty. – Mr President, as a supplementary, is the presidency concerned about the fact that there are so many power stations, particularly around the North Sea and in the north of Europe, where, when water is sucked in to cool the power station, vast numbers, literally billions, of tiny floating creatures that would turn into fish are destroyed. Would the President-in-Office undertake to investigate this and try to conserve the stocks of fish, many of which are destroyed in their infancy? – Mr President, I am a member of the Delegation to the EU-Armenia, EU-Azerbaijan and EU-Georgia Parliamentary Cooperation Committees, and I have visited Georgia. My impression was that they are very good people. It is a beautiful country, the food is excellent, the history is rich and the sense of humour is good. We visited Stalin's birthplace and went to a huge museum. Upstairs there is a circular room, at one end of which there are quotes about Stalin by contemporary world leaders. They are in the Georgian language and the Georgian alphabet, so I had to ask the guide what Winston Churchill had said about Stalin of which they are so proud. She replied that Winston Churchill had said that Stalin would be remembered by history. I enjoyed that. Georgia is also beset by troubles. It has Russian interference – Russian soldiers, although they promised to leave. There are separatist tendencies splitting the country – pulling it apart – and, above, all, there is deep corruption. Money is made from kidnapping foreigners. So the first step – the peaceful revolution they have undergone – was a wonderful first step, which this Parliament welcomes very strongly. However, they have a long way to go, although we would like to help them. They must eliminate corruption to create confidence for foreign investment, and that will create trade, jobs and prosperity. In the long run, I for one do not see why they should not one day become members of our Union. – Mr President, as everyone knows, the leaders of the EU and the American President are meeting in Göteborg today. Obviously some of the things they will air are their differences about the Kyoto Protocol on the environment and global warming and about the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, which needs updating. But there is another important matter, however, which has received very little publicity and to which this debate is designed to draw attention. It is the six-year negotiations that are nearing completion to update the 1972 Biological and Toxic Weapons Convention. The problem with the 1972 convention is that while it banned production of biological weapons it contained no means of verifying whether they were being produced on the quiet. Despite six years of negotiation, it now appears that the new US Administration is backing off and is unwilling to support the terms that have been negotiated to date, including by its own predecessors. In the widespread opinion of this House, the presidential elections last November did not suggest that the American people wanted a wholesale change in government policy, but favoured a continuation of the previous policy. Nevertheless, there are now very alarming signals that the Americans may not support the work that has been done so far. If that is the case, and if there is no final agreement on containing biological and toxic weapons, what kind of message will it send out to what President Bush calls the ‘rogue’ states of the world? We cannot get involved in the negotiations but the most important thing we can do – and I hope the House will agree – is to give strong support to the EU negotiating team and say to the Americans: ‘come on, sign up, we need this agreement’. . – Mr President, this proposal is about money for an instant, non-military response by the Union to crises. It is first pillar – for those who understand Union jargon – and is driven by the Commission. It is not a military, rapid reaction force, which is, of course, second pillar, and driven by the Council of Ministers. However, I have been invited, lobbied and asked how I am going to deploy the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy's soldiers, tanks and planes. I have been asked whether we are going to use naval bases in Cyprus and to address a conference of Canadian soldiers. I want to make it absolutely clear that this is nothing to do with the military rapid reaction force: this is a financial facility for the Commission to respond to crises very rapidly. Although the Commission will deploy the money as fast as is necessary, Parliament retains control as one half of the budgetary authority. We shall vote the money and we shall look forward to the reports from the Commission on how it has spent the money. We expect the Commission to spend the money on responding to crises by buying medicines, hiring doctors or nurses, chartering aircraft to carry the medicines, nurses or policemen – whatever is required – to the crisis, wherever it is – not necessarily within Europe. In the past the Union has been rightly criticised for being slow in responding to crises. We have failed to send an immediate response when it was most obviously required, and this proposal is part of Commissioner Patten's praiseworthy efforts to improve the Union's aid programme, which is in a bit of a mess, to say the least. I hope very much that Parliament will support it, and I will come back to that. We would be very interested to know whether, when the Commissioner responds to this debate, he would be able to outline the types of situations that he envisages this may be used for – although, of course, we have some ideas ourselves. I have been asked by a number of colleagues who have read the report why, if it is such a good idea, there are so many amendments in it. The original Commission proposal was dated April last year, but after that nothing happened. It was blocked, it appears, by the French Presidency, with no explanation of what was happening. So I tabled a question at Question Time asking for an explanation and miraculously – but maybe there was no connection – the French Presidency and the Commission got together to negotiate to remove the blockage. They came up with an alternative text but, I am sorry to say, the Council has never had the courtesy to inform Parliament of the new version of the text. So the many amendments in my report are an attempt to amend the original proposal and for us to comment on the new compromise text which we happened to obtain, even though it was never given to us officially. Parliament has only one reading on this, which is another reflection which was not corrected at the Nice Summit of the democratic deficit. It should, of course, be codecision, but it is not. However, we were able to threaten to use our single reading to withhold it – like the famous isoglucose case some years ago – and if we withhold an opinion, nothing further can happen. So we have an effective veto. But, happily, the committee in Parliament has looked at this proposal in great detail and is in favour of it. Hence the many amendments proposed by the committee. Finally – I am not going to go into the details of the amendments – I am happy to say that the committee adopted the amendments almost unanimously, with the single exception of the British Conservatives. They will no doubt explain why that was so. That was the party which I felt obliged to abandon because it had become totally negative about Europe. I very much hope that when we vote on this proposal they will at last feel positive and give it their wholehearted support. Mr President, firstly I would like to thank Mr Maat for bringing forward a very practical report on animal transport, because it is absolutely sure that we all want to see animal transport tightened up. It is a very emotive issue, nowhere more so than in the UK. I would also like to thank him straight away for co-sponsoring my amendments to ask the Commission and the UK Government to look for an opt-out, especially on the transport of live horses to the continent for slaughter. This is something that has not happened in the UK for over 70 years, and we want to make sure it does not start to happen again. I thank Mr Maat very much for that. One of the good things about Mr Maat's report is that he has differentiated between animals going for slaughter and those going for further fattening. There is no justification for taking animals on huge journeys for slaughter – whenever possible they must be slaughtered in the country where they are reared. We have also heard that at the moment about EUR 52 million is still being paid out on export subsidies. A lot of these cattle are going to Lebanon, and their journeys do not end there: they continue for a great many hours after that. We have to make sure we put an end to that. As we put this legislation in place, one of the keys to this whole process is proper enforcement: to ensure that we have the right type of lorries and the proper rest periods. We must also ensure that if these international transporters do not meet the requirements, they have their licences taken away. This would send a very clear message to the industry that you cannot abuse the system. What we are trying to do is good, and we need to get the right type of transport in place. I disagree with the Commission proposal on the idea of a 12-hour rest on a lorry, especially if it concerns sheep. This is not practical and we must have an overall end to the journey. That is what Mr Maat is proposing in this report. I very much recommend the report to the House. – Mr President, firstly I would like to begin by reading a short speech by my colleague, Mrs Langenhagen, who cannot be with us this evening. In her words, "This week the Danish Presidency took off and regarding fisheries it will be a difficult task. We are at a crossroads and unfortunately we are late. Have a look at the fish stocks in our waters and you will see that there is no time to be lost. In my opinion the two reports we are discussing now show clearly the need for action. There is a lack of cooperation in some Member States, and that hinders proper implementation of the CFP. Controls must be strengthened, sanctions must be established with the same level overall in the EU. I am therefore convinced that with this reform of the CFP, Europe has to regain credibility. A major reform will only be successful if the men on board understand what Brussels imposes and believe in the success of the measures to be taken. Clearly we also want to fish in the next decade and beyond, so let us join forces and find the right solution." I will now continue in my own words. The rapporteur, Mr Busk, has done an excellent job, as has Mrs Attwooll, in writing these reports. I commend them for their worthwhile and committed efforts. However, to use an English phrase, these measures are akin to closing the stable door after the horse has bolted. We are only being forced to introduce such drastic measures thanks to the total failure of the CFP. It is now widely accepted that this policy has been an unmitigated disaster and to a large extent has led to the environmental and economic catastrophe we now find ourselves in. I accept and support the need for the immediate implementation of checks and monitoring of the fishing fleets in European waters. We must use all the measures available, particularly satellite technology, and this must be rigorously and evenly enforced by all Member States if it is to have any effect. The Commission has recommended that 6- and 12-mile limits should be retained in order to protect sensitive inshore fisheries. It is interesting to note that in the original draft to the CFP reform proposals, which were widely leaked in March, the Commission stated that 6- and 12-mile limits should become a permanent feature of the CFP without any time limitation. That was how it put it. Now mysteriously that has disappeared to be replaced by a simple reaffirmation of the need for 12-mile limits. Despite Mr Fischler's assurances that he did not succumb to the bullying by Spanish Prime Minister, Mr Aznar, it seems that Spanish threats to take the Commission to court over open-access agreements may have borne fruit. These changes are hugely disappointing and hugely worrying. I would welcome an explanation as to why they occurred. It is essential that we see real management responsibility with the 12-mile limits given back to the Member States involved. Greater responsibility for conservation management measures and enforcement relating to all those vessels of any nationality operating within those zones must fall to Member States. As far as the controversial issue of discards is concerned, it is time to sort out this whole sorry mess once and for all. We cannot continue the policy which leads to overall 2 million tonnes of healthy fish – 25% of all fish caught in the EU – being dumped dead back into the sea every year. UK fishermen are outraged at discards, which continually account for nearly 50% of catches. Much of this problem can be traced to the way in which we operate TACs and quotas. Let us be clear about this. TACs and quotas were introduced in the CFP, not for conservation purposes, but to aid in the process of sharing out fishing rights. However, there are many who would argue that "fair" is not a word that can be applied to the CFP. When the UK entered the CFP in 1972, the agreement which we reached was a body blow to the British fishing industry. In closing, in many people's eyes the CFP is drinking in the last-chance saloon. There is too much at stake to get it wrong a second time. Mr President, on a point of order, I am sure you will be aware of the recent announcement by the UK Electoral Commission that the people of Gibraltar should vote in the South-West of the United Kingdom at the next European Elections, following a decision by the European Court. Will you join with me in welcoming an end to the historic wrong that has denied the people of Gibraltar a voice in Europe? I should like to ask you to write, on behalf of this Parliament, to Mr Peter Caruana, the First Minister of Gibraltar, offering his citizens a warm welcome and congratulating them on their hard-fought campaign to secure their rightful democratic representation in Europe. . – The British Conservatives voted against this report due to growing concerns about the effects and implementation of such agreements. Firstly, we are unconvinced by the benefits of agreements which are of huge cost to the European taxpayer and yet seem to supply limited benefits to EU fishermen as a whole. Secondly, we remain sceptical over the financial proberty of such schemes, and how such proceeds are spent. The effect on local indigenous fishermen continues to be highlighted, and yet the attitude that the EU can simply come in and take the livelihoods of such subsistence fishermen is worrying. But finally we have seen the damage the CFP has done to the fishing stocks around our own coastlines. The CFP has been an unmitigated environmental disaster. We believe that it is simply wrong to suggest that the only answer to such a dire situation in our fish stocks is simply to up anchor and go and repeat the exercise in someone else's waters. – Madam President, I speak today both as an MEP and a beef farmer from the United Kingdom. The farming industry in Britain has suffered greatly from the BSE crisis, both financially and in terms of consumer confidence. However, we have learnt a great deal over the years as to how to put our house in order. We now have a belt-and-braces system for the safety of our beef. Recently, the Phillips inquiry into BSE has been published in the UK. I am pleased that you, Commissioner Byrne, have read that report. I hope that you will act on it. The French Government should also read this report because they are in danger of making exactly the same mistakes as were made in the UK at the time of our BSE crisis. But we now have the benefit of hindsight. I suggest that the French Government should learn from us. I have never been convinced by the argument put forward by France that the whole-herd slaughter policy was the right way to tackle outbreaks of BSE in their country. The recent problem in Normandy of an infected animal being presented as a healthy animal highlights the resistance there is in the farming community to having their entire herds slaughtered. Furthermore, the recent tests that have been carried out in France of fallen stock have shown several hidden cases of BSE. I have long been suspicious that in order to avoid having their whole herds slaughtered animals have been secretly shot and buried on farms in France. The British system of removing infected animals from the herds and paying good compensation for those animals encourages farmers to declare their cases of BSE. I call upon the European Commission to carry out a total review of the systems that are in place in France to deal with cases of BSE. In Britain we have also learnt that it is very difficult to stop meat-and-bone meal, that is produced and incorporated in the feedingstuffs for pigs and poultry, also – either by accident or by intention – landing up in feed for cattle and ruminants. It is very difficult for a feed mill to guarantee that its production lines are completely cleared of meat-and-bone meal before they start manufacturing feedingstuffs for pigs and poultry. I have long been of the opinion that a complete ban on the use of meat-and-bone meal in animal feeds should be in place throughout Europe. France has recently introduced a ban on beef on the bone and many French provinces have stopped school children from consuming home-grown beef. One of the main reasons for this action is that the French Food Agency takes the precautionary principle very seriously. I would suggest that the European Commission also use the precautionary principle in regard to beef from France. Until such time as the French Government can guarantee the absolute safety of their beef the Commission should ban all exports from France to the rest of the Community, especially from beef animals that are over 30 months of age. There is, at the moment, £2 million worth of French beef for the meat processing industry consumed in the UK. This is totally unacceptable considering the problems regarding BSE in France. Over a year ago, 16 of Europe's best scientists, including a French chairman, declared British beef safe for consumption throughout Europe, and yet France has illegally maintained a ban on the importation of British beef. It is total hypocrisy for France to maintain its ban on British beef. – Mr President, on a point of order, I should like to raise a matter of vital importance to the European Union, which is also an urgency. As many of you know, I am a member of the European Parliament's Temporary Committee on Foot-and-Mouth Disease. This disease wreaked devastation across the whole of the UK and other Member States of the EU and cost European taxpayers billions of euros. You will also be aware of the recent outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in Korea. The World Cup about to take place in Korea will result in a massive increase in travellers from the EU to that country, and there is a potential risk of a further outbreak of foot-and-mouth from travellers bringing back infected foodstuffs. When it is considered that over ten million animals were slaughtered in my country alone due to foot and mouth, which may have been caused by one single infected sandwich being brought into the UK, I hope you will understand the urgency of the situation. Mr President, firstly, I thank Mrs Grossetête for her report and I support the last speaker. The problem here is that whenever we try to put the whole of Europe together and try to bring in legislation that suits every Member State, one size does not fit all, and that is why I urge this House to support Amendments Nos 27 and 28 by Mrs Doyle. Most of the medicines which at present farmers in Ireland and the UK buy not from vets but from general suppliers are either drenches for worms or vaccines and they are administered by the farmers. Therefore, it is not the case that the vet will do the administration; these drugs will just be bought from the vets. Vets will then have a monopoly on the sale of these commodities and it puts farmers again at a competitive disadvantage. We have been told many times by the new world that farmers have to live in that they have to face up to responsibilities and the marketplace and yet here we are preventing them from being able to compete in buying those medicines. It is absolutely crazy to try to force this through. I echo again what Mr Nicholson said. I rather fear that the UK Government, having said all along that it would support the farming industry so they would be able to buy these medicines from suppliers and not from vets, has capitulated and caved in. Therefore, it is up to this Parliament to put this legislation forward in a way that will allow flexibility between Member States. That is what we are being asked for. A huge fuss is being made about food safety, but this is not the issue, because these drugs, wormers and vaccines can be bought from suppliers. They can be registered there and therefore we will know when the farmers have bought them. The farmers will then administer them, so there is no need go through all the procedure of veterinary prescription and vets-only medicines. Therefore, I urge the House once again to support Amendments Nos 27 and 28 by Mrs Doyle. – Mr President, we are all in favour of a reduction in the use of pesticides, but to suddenly decide upon a 50% reduction is neither realistic nor practical. Consumers want a very good quality product. In fact, they have become accustomed to this. Very often the quality of the product is due to the amount of pesticide with which it has been sprayed. I am almost committing a sin by actually mentioning it, but many crops are sprayed and, because of this, they are of a very good quality. Consumers demand high quality, and that is what they will buy. If they do not buy a product that is produced in the European Union because we have banned various chemicals, they will buy it from outside and this will put our farmers at a disadvantage. Farmers in the European Union also want to grow many varied types of crops. If we are not careful, we will take many chemicals off the market and this will reduce the amount of crops we can grow. This is certainly not the intention of the Commission nor of Parliament. There is a place for organic farming, but we must accept that if the whole world was to embrace organic farming, we would starve. It is as simple as that. We would be unable to produce anywhere near enough food for the world if we were entirely on an organic system. As one of my colleagues has mentioned, GMO agriculture would enable us to actually produce a plant which is resistant to many diseases and could be sprayed a great deal less. We could probably reduce the chemical use on these crops by even more than 50%, but, of course, we have closed our minds and our ears to the whole debate and, again, we are going to reduce the competitivity of European agriculture. We have to face up to the realities of the global market. – Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert for her very practical report. We need to be sure of how we are going to deal with these additives, especially in poultry. You do not find out that a chicken contains coccidiostats until it is dead and by then it is too late. The welfare problems of actually handling chicken also have to be considered. We need to be able to sort out this problem and look at it very practically. We are very concerned in Europe that consumers should be protected, and rightly so, but what is the Commission going to do to protect European consumers from imports of poultry that have probably been fed growth promoters? Millions of chickens are imported from China and Thailand. The problem is that the poultry meat cannot be tested for growth promoters or, if it is, some time may have elapsed and the meat can no longer be tested for it. It will be impossible to determine whether growth promoters have been fed to the chickens, and so chicken producers in Europe will be at a complete economic disadvantage. This will not protect consumers in Europe, because the meat will still be imported. We will find that European consumers are consuming meat from poultry produced in China and Thailand containing substances banned in Europe. I would like to ask Commissioner Byrne how he is going to stop this problem arising. – Madam President, the CFP has totally failed. It has not maintained the fishing stocks or fishermen's jobs. Discarding nearly two million tonnes of healthy fish each year is absolutely ridiculous. Fish do not swim separately in the sea. They swim together and the sooner we work that out the better. The 6- and 12-mile limits must be confirmed permanently. I am not convinced by the argument that we cannot do it and I shall be voting firmly for the fact that these limits should be etched in stone. Not only must those 6- and 12-mile limits be there, but they must be managed at a local level and properly devolved from Brussels, not just some token gesture. If local fishermen have proper ownership of these waters, the conservation measures will work. In the North Sea cod is disappearing. Is it a coincidence that the cod are disappearing in the areas where the industrial fishing takes place? We take out millions of tonnes of sand eels and scour the sea beds, and the cod eat sand eels. It is not a coincidence. We must do something about it. Norway and Iceland have good fishing stocks and they are not part of the common fisheries policy. Again, is this a coincidence? I would agree here with Mr McCartin. Do we need to make fishing resources part of the common fisheries policy? I will say this quite bluntly: if the Commission cannot run the common fisheries policy properly, then send it back to the Member States and let them do it. Mr President, I am sorry to sound a note of disharmony in this debate, but this report needs to be taken in two respects. First of all we have to isolate the fact that European taxpayers' money has to be spent with transparency – and at the moment it is not. Clearly we are overpaying for the fishing rights and we should pay for the amount of fish that is caught by European fishermen, but if we wish to pay for Greenland development aid then let us pay for it separately. I am not against it but it cannot be paid for with paper fish through a fisheries agreement. I am very surprised at the Commission's attitude to the idea that we should now open up the number of species that can be caught in and around Greenland. Anyone would think that the common fisheries policy has been a great success, when in fact we see fish stocks in European waters as a whole declining more and more. The idea now is to open up more quotas for more species. I have often said in this Chamber that fish unfortunately do not swim separately and very often, when one species of fish is caught, others also swim into the nets. If the fishermen do not have quotas, these fish are discarded. We all know that a disgraceful amount of fish is discarded in the European Union every year. We need to review the whole idea of having third country agreements. Very often it leads to the European Union exploiting third countries' waters and means that fishermen in these third countries are driven out of business and the whole thing is being brought into disrepute. Often the money which the EU spends does not reach the fishermen or the countries for which it is intended. It very often ends up in the wrong place. We should review the whole situation. – Madam President, I should like this put off until January 2001, if possible, as Commissioner Fischler is unable to be here because of fisheries meetings. It is very important that he is present for this report because he is very interested in it and we are very much in the hands of the Commission for its success. I ask that the House hold it over to January. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Adam, for the very good job he has done on this report, and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for bringing forward a very practical report. That is the key to the whole thing because, as Mr Adam has said, we very much want to be able to trace sheep movements. However, we have to realise that in the UK alone there are 35 million sheep and there are probably up to 100 million individual movements of sheep. The idea that every sheep could be recorded with a 14-digit number when it is being moved is completely ridiculous. Let me take you through a scenario. A thousand ewes with 1 200 lambs are taken to the hillside. Six months later those sheep return and some of them have lost their tags. The Commission still insists that they should have the same individual number. I say to Commissioner Byrne quite clearly – and I am sure he realises this because he is an intelligent man – that the idea that the lamb will have the same tag is absolutely ridiculous. We have to realise that if you make the law an ass, it will be seen as an ass and we must be very careful to bring in legislation that is practical. Our committee has voted for batch movements of sheep and it is clear that if those batches are moved you will be able to trace where they have been. If there is a problem with scrapie in sheep then the whole flock will be slaughtered, so individual numbers are not necessary. Provided that the holding number is on the tag, that is all that is needed. As we move forward into electronic systems, we have to be absolutely sure of the cost to the industry of introducing this. We also need a system that will be practical. I have seen systems demonstrated in hotel rooms, but they have to be demonstrated on the hillside in pouring rain, to farmers and shepherds who can easily deal with that system. All of these things have to be practical, because we need the sheep and lamb industry. I recently visited New Zealand, which has a lot of sheep. Sheep are necessary to the European Union, and we must be careful not to price ourselves out of that industry. I would urge the Commission to look at our report practically and wake up to the idea that we have got it right. . The British Conservatives voted against the Commission proposal as amended, but in favour of the legislative resolution. We did this, not because we support the contents of Parliament's report, but because it is imperative that Parliament gives an opinion so that Council may proceed to a decision. Europe's farmers must be given a clear direction for the future. We support Commissioners Fischler's proposals to reform the CAP and believe it is long overdue. We are completely behind the plans to decouple payments away from production, and welcome the freeing up of agriculture. We also believe that the Fischler proposals will ensure the future of European agriculture in an enlarged Europe of 25 Member States. The proposals as they are in Parliament's text would only confuse and complicate an already over-bureaucratic system, and force agriculture into even further decline. The Commission reforms will put us in a strong position when we sit around the table at the WTO talks in Cancun. We hope that Commissioner Fischler sticks to his guns, and pushes ahead with his plans in Luxembourg next week. We, and European farmers, wish him every success! – Mr President, it is very sad that we are having this debate tonight and that we need to give GBP 150 million in funding to help the fishing industry. It is because of the failure of the common fisheries policy that we are having to provide this money. We should also look at industrial fishing - and I know there are mixed views about this - in which sand eels are extracted from the sea bed. Sand eels are part of the food chain of the cod and these things are all linked. The process of having quotas for fish and throwing healthy fish overboard over the years has also contributed greatly to the position we are in. But we must now face up to the reality that cod stocks are low and that the families and communities involved in the fishing industry who need support should receive it. I strongly support the resolution to provide GBP 150 million of additional funding. I would urge the UK Government to take this up and use it in a very efficient way. One of the problems with funding of this type, as was found when it was used in Spanish waters, is that it is very difficult for the fishing boats, those tied up for the processing industry and others, to claim these funds. I would urge Commissioner Fischler to look at the way this money can be spent. If we offer people money and they cannot then obtain it, they will only end up more frustrated than they were before. I urge everybody to support this. . Conservative MEPs accord a very great importance to issues of parental responsibility and the protection of children. It is, unfortunately, an unavoidable fact that the European Community is working towards the establishment of a common judicial area. However, we believe that parental responsibility should remain the right of a parent within the competence of individual Member States and, as such, cannot support a report which gives the Council the right to instruct Member States to hand over their autonomy in this area. . Whilst not perfect, this regulation does address a very important issue. However, I am concerned that, by adopting the regulation, we may have severely damaged a much needed community service, without realising it. The helicopter shuttle to the Isles of Scilly is a vitally important link and a necessity to my region. Without the helicopter service to ferry visitors to and from the mainland, the economy of this tiny island will be devastated. As the objective of the regulation was to deal with fixed wing services, I do not believe that it was meant to cover such niche operations. They only operate two helicopters on a shuttle service, are often victim to bad weather, and do not have the luxury of 'standby' helicopters in case of mechanical failure. If a mechanical breakdown does occur early in the day, all subsequent flights are affected. The element that covers such occurrences could mean paying out compensation to such a level that the service would simply cease to operate. We raised this privately with the Commission at yesterday's debate, but I would ask the Commission again to rectify urgently an oversight which could ruin a beautiful island and a community. Mr President, Commissioner Byrne, I welcome your statement here this morning, but I understand that you went to Thailand and were told that it was not avian flu but chicken cholera. It was only when you returned that you later found that it was actually avian flu. I welcome the ban you have imposed on Thai chicken meat but you have not banned cooked meat or canned meat, and this accounts for about 75% of our imports from Thailand. The Thai authorities have been found wanting in international compliance. They have hidden the Thai flu for maybe two months. If they protect their market from a deadly disease, surely they will protect it against minor infringements of EU standards. Will they run the same risk with cooked meats? Will we see nitrofuran residues and hormones entering the EU in this cooked meat? Is the public health of the EU overridden by the trade interests of EU exporters? I believe Thailand should be completely delisted from all poultry meat exports until that country can prove it has the infrastructure and the integrity to apply EU standards all the time. Can we also have a labelling of country of origin for principal ingredients in processed food, because this is where most of this Thai cooked meat comes in? How can we be sure that meat cooked in Thailand has reached the correct temperature? There is perhaps a slight risk – how do we know? Cooked chicken may come into the UK frozen, then thaw and be eaten with no further treatment from the time the Thais cooked it. Is this a risk to our consumers? The tariff for Thai cooked chicken meat is one seventh of that on frozen fresh chicken. Why is this so, Commissioner? This seems to be a loophole. Finally, has the disease moved to the United States of America? – Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, for his excellent report. This is the second report. First of all there was his report on behalf of the temporary committee and now there is the report on the Commission's legislation. I would also like to thank Members of Parliament for setting up the temporary committee. Commissioner Byrne has listened to the temporary committee and has come forward with some good proposals. I would also thank him for banning personal imports of meat and dairy products into the EU. I just wish that Member States will now enforce that regulation better. We must learn the lessons from this terrible blight to our countryside, farmers and the rural population. Let us not begin to rewrite history and change what we learnt the hard way, nor alter our views. The views of the European inquiry were clear about how a future outbreak should be handled. The EU committee did more to raise the profile of the EU and put a proactive and positive impression forward of what Brussels was attempting to do, than anything else I have witnessed while I have been a Member of this Parliament. We showed that we were listening and that we would take action over their concerns. We spoke to farmers, the tourism industry, people and rural businesses. Let us be clear about what a future strategy must contain. We must have proper checks on the readiness and the value of our contingency plan. Contingency plans must be checked and re-checked, rehearsed and re-examined so that we are not in the unprepared state we were in at the last outbreak. We must have the resources, knowledge and personnel to react quickly. We  use vaccination as a first method of dealing with an outbreak, at the same time, in conjunction with and alongside slaughter. We must not rule out the use of slaughter. There are rumours circulating that the Council is backing away from the use of vaccination, downgrading it on the scale of its importance. Vaccination is not the only tool in our armoury, but it must be fully and effectively used from the beginning of any outbreak. We also need to reassure the consumer about vaccinated meat products and develop and research more new vaccines. We must never again see the mass slaughter of ten million animals - our citizens will not accept it. Any future outbreak must allow vaccinated animals to remain in the food chain to prevent such a terrible waste of resources. We must never again allow political interference to dictate how we attack an outbreak. We must never see the funeral pyres which remain so vivid in the memories of all who witnessed them both in person and on our TV screens. Finally, we must not become complacent. There is no doubt that whilst the Commission has tightened up on personal imports, which I welcome, we are still wide open to the disease entering the EU. My own government is taking a reckless approach to it. After an outbreak that brought our rural communities to their knees, we only have four sniffer dogs to try and prevent contaminated meat entering the country. This is folly and, say what you will, it is simply unacceptable. We must have a concerted, organised and united approach to prevent illegal imports. We, as governments across the EU, must put in place the appropriate resources to do the job: manpower, money and, dare I say it, sniffer dogs. Finally, we must fight the disease in conjunction with the farming communities, not in spite of them. We cannot ride roughshod over them as we did in 2001. We have to gain their trust, show our commitment, and then we will be able to keep the terrible disease out of the EU. May I take the question on the Fischler proposals for the mid-term review a little further with the Commissioner? Under your reforms you will break the link between production and subsidy. This will put the European Union in a strong position in Cancún. Do you feel that the decision the Council of Ministers arrived at, whereby some countries are going to start decoupling long before others, has actually weakened the position of the European Union? – Mr President, the fact that the EU observer mission has garnered great international acclaim reflects the fact that Mr Schori has done an excellent job in raising the profile of what we were doing there. I pay great tribute to him. There is no doubt in Zimbabwe that it has been a case of "Power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely". Mr Mugabe has much to answer for. If the result may be said to have a positive side, it is the fact that there is now no longer absolute power. Much of the violence that took place before the elections can be based directly back to the leadership of Zanu-PF and to President Mugabe himself. The so-called war veterans – they must have been very young when the war of independence was on – have been paid to be on these farms. This is a grave problem which be traced directly back to the leadership. There were problems too with the fact that the postal votes, which were sent directly to the army in the Congo on Thursday, miraculously returned on Saturday, all in due form going into many marginal constituencies. Threats of violence against supporters of the MDC have continued after the elections. The Archbishop of Bulawayo has been threatened. All these things must be stopped. We cannot possibly support a regime that carries on this intimidation. The fact that President Mugabe wants to stifle inward investment by nationalising the farms, and threatening to do the same with the mines, will do nothing to resolve the economic situation in Zimbabwe. What Zimbabwe needs is much more inward investment from outside the country. This will not take place under the present regime. There is a great and wonderful opportunity in Zimbabwe now with the emergence of the MDC, for all races to work together. There is great hope for the future, but we must make sure that we keep up the pressure on Zimbabwe and especially on Mr Mugabe. We should take direct action against assets that President Mugabe owns outside of Zimbabwe. We must take the argument directly to the man who has created the problems. .  Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of Mrs Doyle, who is unable to be here this morning. We welcome the feed and food controls in order to ensure healthy animals and good meat for people throughout Europe. However, we must give the industry time to develop a uniform approach across Europe. I would like Commissioner Byrne to explain in more detail how we are going to enforce the same kind of controls on feed imported into the European Union. It is very important that the same stringent controls are applied not only to our feed in Europe but also to imported feed. Animal welfare is also extremely important. Mrs Paulsen mentioned labelling. We have to ensure that consumers can tell from the labelling which products have met those high animal welfare standards in Europe. Consumers should also be able to see from the labelling which products have not met those high standards. The cost of inspection within the EU and fees charged to each feed company have to be looked at, because if one country is charging significantly more for inspections than another, it causes distortions throughout the single market. In broad terms, we must welcome these controls, but we have to be careful that we do not over-regulate. Mr President, I wish to begin by again thanking the rapporteur for this very necessary report. I regret that Mr Ford wants to make this a political matter, because I believe this is something on which all political parties could work together for the greater good in order to stop this horrible trade. As we meet here in Strasbourg, great apes, gorillas, chimpanzees and monkeys are all being hunted to extinction for  bushmeat. At the current rate, people are paying a premium to eat more great apes each year than are now kept in all the zoos and laboratories of the world. The shocking statistic is that if the slaughter continues at its current pace, the remaining wild apes in Africa will be gone within the next 15 to 50 years – a long time, but it will soon go if we do not stop this trade. I pay tribute to Dr Brian Carroll of Bristol Zoo, in my own region, who has worked with zoos across the UK to collect a stunning half a million signatures as part of the Europe-wide campaign. We are facing a catastrophe that affects both the survival of our closest relatives and the people who rely on forests for their livelihoods. The biggest challenge now facing conservationists is to reduce the demand for bushmeat. It is essential that we maintain an education programme that will keep people from buying and eating great apes through greater understanding and awareness. However, we can do more here in Europe. I am horrified by the scale of this sickening trade every year. Tonnes of bushmeat are confiscated at Europe's airports. We must have stricter controls at all EU ports and airports to stop such meat getting into Europe – witness, colleagues, the devastation caused by foot-and-mouth outbreaks across Europe. We had our own inquiry. Foot-and-mouth is prevalent in parts of western Africa. Smuggled bushmeat could not only spark a new outbreak in Europe, it could also expose our livestock to diseases and epidemics on the African continent. Every kilogram of smuggled meat in the EU food chain poses a real threat not only of animal diseases, but also human ones, such as Ebola. Colleagues, your support for the conclusions of this temporary committee into the outbreak, and its demand for tougher measures to prevent diseases entering the EU was overwhelming, yet in my own country we have only six sniffer dogs to seek out this hideous trade. We are not taking this threat seriously enough and all Member States could do more. Endangered wildlife and habitats are a precious and irreplaceable asset. We must stop this barbaric trade before it is too late. – I would like to congratulate Robert Sturdy on bringing forward a common-sense report here. I would also call upon the Commission to accept the recommendations. Otherwise the report should be referred back to committee, because the key to European beef production is quality, and that is what we can sell to the consumer. I think we have to take out the poor-quality calves that are born so that in the long run we can produce quality beef. An attack on suckler cows and their numbers is exactly the wrong way to go, because this is very much quality, grass-fed beef, in which the consumer has great confidence. We need to take a much more positive approach to selling beef again. I think the UK has shown that. We have now returned to consumption above that of the 1996 level, therefore we need to move forward. The 90-head limit is wrong and to bring in individual claims will be a bureaucratic nightmare. We really have to move forward. Destruction is also the key. If you are going to have a buy-up scheme for the over thirty-month cattle, then for goodness sake destroy them, do not bring them back onto the market at a future date, because this will be lower-quality beef, and if you are not very careful, this will actually destroy the future recovery of the market. Mr Busk made a good point. If these cattle over thirty months old are tested and found not to have BSE, why cannot they be provided as aid in the future. Why do we have then to destroy them? What we cannot do is to put them onto the European market. So I think the long-term solution is to take on board Robert Sturdy's report. Let us go out and sell good-quality European beef to the consumer. – Mr President, I rise to support this budget that should be spent to help with the BSE crisis. We have to accept that we will have to incinerate a great many of the older cattle in order to restore consumer confidence. It has the advantage of taking away some of the production when those cattle are incinerated, so I support the majority of this budget going towards the incineration of older cattle. As we move forward to reforming the CAP – and we all accept that it has to be reformed – we must not do this with a gun to our head. We must do this in a calm way. It is no good just blaming the large farmer versus the small farmer. It is not as simple as that. It is about intensive production and this does not always take place on the large farms. We cannot in Europe look only at the way we produce our food under the CAP. We must also look at food imports from outside the European Union. It is madness for us to put our house in order and then to see food coming into the European Union that does not meet the same safety standards as ours. We have to be very concerned about this but we do not want to take too negative a view as regards consumption. Consumption can return, and it has returned in the UK. It has been a painful process, but now is not the time to make a judgment on exactly what in six months’ time the consumption will be in Europe. If the safety measures are put in place, if confidence can return, then the consumption can rise again quite dramatically. That will be the time to reform the CAP and make sure we get it right. – Mr President, I congratulate the Commission on its radical proposals for decoupling. I fear that the propositions that Parliament is putting forward are far too timid and believe that we should go down the road of decoupling. If we are going to do it partially, then let us at least do it sector by sector, not by horizontal decoupling across all sectors. Mr Cunha, you know I believe that part of the proposal is mad. Farmers need a clear direction as to where they are going. We need a decision from the Council of Ministers so that farmers can plan for the future. What we do not want is a complete mixing of decoupling. If we need to look after less-favoured areas there are ways to do that. We do not have to do that through production subsidies. The decoupling system that you have put forward, Commissioner, will help us with the WTO round. It will also help us face up to enlargement. Let us face it, many of the accession countries would find it very difficult to put into place the production-based subsidies we have. What point is there in asking them to put those systems in place if, a year or two later, we change the whole system again? We have to face up to the reality that we will have a different agricultural policy for 25 Member States than we have for the existing 15. That is where we have to be careful in what we do. We also have to be sure that when Europe goes to the WTO round we can fight our corner and face up not only to the United States, but Third World countries. We need to support our farmers, but not at the expense of Third World trade. The proposals you put forward will help us to support European agriculture, European farmers and give good value to European taxpayers who are sometimes forgotten. .–We are very unhappy with the fisheries agreements between the EU and third countries as we are aware that within this agreement with the Gabonese Government 40% of the money should be set aside for conservation measures. Due to a lack of good governance, we are concerned that these funds may not be used for the purposes for which they were intended, and thus the Conservative Delegation abstained on the final vote. – Mr President, as someone who was at the forefront in instigating the setting up of this committee, I would personally like to thank President Cox for his invaluable help and all those Members who have made this report and this committee such a resounding success. I would particularly like to thank Mr Kreissl-Dörfler for his unstinting work, his readiness to listen and his even-handed approach. The visits to the UK and the Netherlands allowed us to listen to everyone who was affected. I believe that the European Parliament has delivered what my own parliament in Westminster would not. What we have in this document is a fair and balanced report on the terrible devastation and suffering the disease brought to my country. Let us not forget that foot and mouth disease is no respecter of borders. This blight could have appeared in any European country and could still hit at any time in the future. Looking at the situation in the UK, the British Government quite simply got it wrong. Mr Adam may try and blame everything on the farmers as usual – and he talked much about the farmers getting it wrong – but what about the government getting it wrong? There is no denying that mistakes have been made. That could be accepted by British farmers – we all make mistakes. What is not acceptable is that this government still refuses to accept they got it wrong and still refuses to apologise to those who suffered. Look at Mr Adam's amendments and look at the latest British Government briefing – they have learnt nothing! This disease did not just affect farmers, it affected hotels and tourism; it affected butchers and traders across Europe. We must not allow this terrible slaughter of 10 million animals to happen again. I am pleased that this report contains a sensible and workable approach to vaccination in the future. Our visit to the Netherlands demonstrated the great benefits of emergency vaccination. This would remove the necessity for the huge funeral pyres and burial pits that were hallmarks of the British Government's handling of the outbreak. Those unforgettable pictures must stand as a lasting reminder of what could happen again if we do not learn the lessons of this most terrible disease. I am pleased that this report sets out plans for the future. It is vital that we have a workable and effective contingency plan in place. This report goes a long way to developing a positive approach for the whole of Europe. The European Commission has worked hand in hand with the committee, and it is no coincidence that tomorrow it will come forward with its proposals for the future. I commend Commissioner Byrne's team for their work. I would make one final plea to the British Government: please listen and accept this report so we can plan for the future. The suffering caused last year by foot and mouth disease was simply unacceptable and it must never be allowed to happen again. I hope you will all support this report and the measures contained within it. Europe's farmers and Europe's rural communities deserve to know that they are valued. They deserve to know that Europe's politicians are prepared. I hope that you will give this your support today. – Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to be able to present to you today the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development’s own-initiative report on the situation and perspectives of young farmers in the European Union. Twenty years ago, I, myself, was a member of my local young farmers' organisation in the county of Somerset in England. Even in those days it was not easy for young farmers to carry on the family farm or get started in the industry. Today the situation has become even more difficult, and we are witnessing a big drop in the number of young farmers coming into the industry. We have reached a point where it has become vital to take action in order to stop this decline. Not only for the sake of agriculture itself, but also to safeguard existing structures in our countryside. The last thing that we want to see is a depopulated countryside where the green and pleasant landscape which we take for granted will not be looked after properly any longer. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the European organisation CEJA for its help and cooperation in enabling me to produce this report. I was given the opportunity to visit young farmers in five Member States which gave me a better and wider understanding of the practical ways in which young farmers could be helped in the industry. I would further like to thank Commissioner Fischler for his backing and I would also welcome the draft opinion on the report produced by the Committee of the Regions because it is going to do a report on young farmers. Last but not least, I would like to express my thanks to Ross Gordon Consultants who produced an excellent study on the situation of young farmers in the European Union last year and whose publication has been of great help in producing today's report. The report puts forward a series of ideas and ways of assisting young farmers starting up or carrying on in their businesses. I have, however, tried not to reinvent the wheel. Basically I would like to see the introduction of a guaranteed standard level of assistance for young farmers throughout the European Union. I am fully aware that it is not an easy task to come up with one solution covering all the different conditions facing young farmers in their respective countries in a Community of 15 Member States. To name just two examples: land values can vary from EUR 12 000 per hectare to EUR 15 000 per hectare. Levels of taxation vary greatly with some Member States imposing considerable inheritance tax which renders the survival of young farmers very difficult, especially where land values are very high. I do not have the time to go through all the recommendations made in the report, but I will list some of the measures which should be given priority: the continuation of start-up grants of up to EUR 40 000, in combination with subsidised interest rates for start-up capital of up to EUR 120 000 for eight years. Two of the major difficulties encountered by young farmers are the raising of start-up capital and subsequently the danger of overstretching their financial abilities by providing regular interest payments. We are living in a computer age. Access to education and training needs to be further encouraged in order to allow young farmers to take full advantage of the potential advantages offered by modern communication technology and business operation techniques. The changing face of agriculture, increasingly determined by global WTO agreements, means that agriculture will continue to change. It is in our best interests that young farmers are well prepared to anticipate and to manage these future challenges. Food safety measures and production methods are being thoroughly analysed these days. There is greater emphasis on organic production throughout Europe. Here again, young farmers must be placed in a position which will allow them to embrace a new upcoming culture and to be aware of the benefits attached to maintaining consumer confidence and support for agricultural products. There is tremendous scope for innovative and creative local high-quality production. The European agricultural industry is going through a difficult economic period with a great deal of restructuring going on at the same time. There is a great need to assist some of the older farmers to retire in dignity. In this context, I would very much like see a retirement package for existing farmers linked to bringing in young farmers to carry on the industry. I would like to ask Commissioner Fischler to recommend to Member States that they introduce such a policy throughout the EU. We are seeing the average age of the farming Community increase with falling numbers of young farmers. This trend must be reversed. Young farmers need greater access to production rights. It is not easy to balance the delivery of additional production rights to young farmers if they have to be taken away from existing farmers who themselves are already facing financial difficulties. When, in future, production rights are changed, I would like to ask the Commission to take into greater account the need to increase the amount of extra production which is given to young farmers. With the emphasis in the CAP on giving increasing importance to rural development schemes, it is crucial to recognise the young farmers as the key players and main executives responsible for the implementation of such new rural redevelopment policies. With the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union, I would strongly advise the applicant Member States to start creating supportive measures for their young farmers already at present, especially in view of the introduction of production controls required by the Commission. In many parts of the world, share farming is a common practice. I would like to ask the Commission to investigate the possibilities for developing share farming within the common agricultural policy. As I have already mentioned, this report is an own initiative report of the Committee on Agriculture, and I hope all parties will be able to sign up for this report and make sure positive practical help is given young farmers in the future. I would also like to thank Commissioner Fischler once more for his support and also ask him to introduce an audit to be carried out every two years on the availability and success of measures put in place to support young farmers. It is very important that we do not just pay great lip service to helping young farmers, but actually deliver policies within the common agricultural policy that increase the number of young farmers coming into the industry. .  Mr President, I thank Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert for her report and also for listening to the ideas that I put forward in the opinion from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. We all recognise the need for feed to be safe. If animal feed is safe, then consumers feel safe when eating animal products. While we recognise the need to be able to identify and isolate all those producers and feed businesses involved in the food production chain, I believe this should be done without adding another tier of registration. We recognise the need for a complete identification of all feed business operators, including farms, by adapting existing regulation systems in order to enable the competent authorities to inspect operators. However, national regulation systems which are already in place and functioning for other purposes should be utilised wherever possible to avoid unnecessary duplication and regulation. Currently, the majority of farms can be identified through their participation in these schemes. I welcome the Commission's proposals whereby feed businesses, except those involved solely in primary production, will be required to adopt the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points principles. HACCP is a method of identifying potential hazards and ensuring that proper control strategies are in place, and I welcome that. As Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert mentioned, the area of most serious concern in the Commission's proposals is the use of financial guarantees. All feed businesses, including farms, would need to fulfil a new requirement of having financial guarantees in place to cover the cost of withdrawn products in the event of a feed safety incident. This would be restricted to the withdrawal, treatment and possible destruction of products. Having consulted with the farming industry, feed manufacturers and the insurance sector, we find that the consequences of introducing financial guarantees have not been sufficiently analysed. The feasibility of financial guarantees or insurance policies has not been properly developed with the industry and it is unclear whether such guarantees would be available from the insurance sector. The cost implications for feed manufacturers and farmers from such a guarantee scheme are also unclear. Therefore, we would like the Commission to look at this in more detail before bringing this in. Finally, we are very concerned that feed coming in from outside the European Union also meets these very strict criteria. – Mr President, I was part of the observer mission that went to Zimbabwe, as was Mr Gahler and others here. I want to explode the myth that this is about land and land ownership: This is about politics. This is about the fact that Mugabe knows that if they had the same votes that were cast last year in the general election, he would lose a presidential election. He is driving the farmers and their farm workers off the land, out of the constituencies, so that they cannot register to vote. It is plainly about politics. It is not about colonial powers. It is about politics. Those farms are well run, they provide churches, schools and hospital treatment in those areas. The communities come together. 70% of Zimbabwe is about agriculture and the economy is being destroyed. We need smart sanctions to be taken on President Mugabe. He is not listening to placations. We have got to act and we have got to act now. – Madam President, there were a couple of dissenting voices in the Committee on Agriculture about a subsidy for tobacco and I was one of them. I make no apology for that. I support the Commission very much on what they are trying to do in phasing out tobacco subsidies and I would encourage them to continue at a faster pace, rather than a slower one. We cannot justify European taxpayers' money being spent on tobacco production. One of the key objectives of the common agricultural policy is to produce good, wholesome food for the consumers of Europe. I cannot quite see how tobacco fits into this scenario. I have a great deal of respect for Mr Cunha, the rapporteur, but on this occasion he has got it wrong. He is a little like King Canute, who wanted to stop the tide coming in but was unsuccessful. The Committee on Agriculture did not face up to the realities. Over the past ten years we in Europe have spent GBP 6.5 billion or EUR 10 billion – GBP 2 for every citizen in Europe – to subsidise tobacco. One third of this tobacco is of very low quality and is seldom smoked at all. Another third is dumped on Developing World markets which then destroys their markets for tobacco. Is this a role of the common agricultural policy? It is a role we have tried to avoid. Only one third of this tobacco is smoked in Europe. We cannot, therefore, justify the support that we are giving. We all accept the need to support farming in rural communities, but we have to find different crops and different ways of supporting them in the future. The final point I wish to make is that, of all the areas of this support that I dislike, the continuation in Amendment No 17 of the support for very low-quality tobacco is the most wrong. If anything should be corrected it is this. I urge the Commission to phase out the growing of this very low-quality tobacco immediately. – Commissioner Byrne, I am not noted usually for complimenting you on your good performance but on this occasion I wish to be fair. It is totally wrong for Member States now to blame the Commission when you were pointing out as long as a couple of years ago the problems that were going to occur. What Member States have done by trying to make out which beef is the safest in Europe, is to destroy European beef. There is no doubt about that. We need to take action now across Europe. I am a farmer who farmed through the BSE crisis in the UK. I saw the value of my cattle drop to virtually nothing. It is very painful for the farming industry to see this happen and it is happening now throughout the whole of Europe, so action needs to be taken. I do not think we want to re-invent the wheel so we should look to the measures that have been taken in Britain and have restored consumer confidence. I would urge, and I know Commissioner Byrne agrees with this, to have one policy throughout Europe. If we do not, the European press will take each Member State in turn, they will look at the safety measures that are in those states and they will compare and then people’s confidence in beef in general will collapse. There is no doubt that the older cattle, however painful it is, have to be taken out of the food chain. They must be destroyed. Not only is there incineration but there is now a sodium hydrolysis method of dissolving cattle. I am sure you are looking at that, because that could be a better and possibly a cheaper method of disposing of these cattle. We need also to look at imports of cattle from outside the European Union, because not only do we need to get our act together, I believe there is a lot of complacency about this in the rest of the world. At the end of the day, we must get beef consumption up, we must convince the consumer that it is safe and let them eat European beef. – Mr President, I want to refer to the Commission proposals on the budget line to promote the CAP. On 26 October 1999 the European Commission adopted a proposal to ensure that a legal basis is given to the budget line informing the public about the CAP. This proposal will remove the current budget line B2-5122 and create a new budget heading B1-382. Actions which promote understanding between young farmers and the EU and also create stronger links with EU candidate countries and the outside world are important. Therefore I am putting forward these amendments to Parliament to give its support to the contributions of this type of programme. Given the need to encourage young farmers to continue in farming it is vitally important that they are well-informed about developments in the common agricultural policy. Informing and training young farmers at European level is vitally important. I would ask you to support that part of the available budget should be concentrated on the development of knowledge amongst European young farmers. Regarding information and training, in the past this budget line has been allocated for information, communication and training. But the Commission is now proposing that training should no longer be included. I feel that training should be included where it provides relevant information at European level about the CAP. Such European training is one element in ensuring that young farmers have the necessary knowledge of the CAP to make sound business decisions for the future. Therefore I am putting forward three amendments. I would urge Parliament to support them. – Mr President, the enlargement of the European Union is going to be the greatest project that Europe takes part in during the next ten years and we have to be careful, not only how we enlarge for the sake of the present Member States, but also how we deal with the countries that are coming in. I want to deal with the agricultural side because I want to see a proper reform of the common agricultural policy before enlargement takes place. What worries me is that we are not going to do that properly. We are going to get to a situation where the budget of the common agricultural policy does not fit the size of the new European Union. Then we will have to make cuts in places, which is perhaps not the right way to do it. I know the Commission is dealing a lot with this, but we also have to look at how we get the Sapard funds into enlargement states to help them build up their infrastructure, including their education systems. On a recent visit to Poland I found there were lots of problems with education, especially in the rural areas where very often young children were not going on to secondary school because they stayed at home to work on the farms. We must face up to the huge number of farmers in these enlargement states and we must find some way of helping them to restructure their agriculture as and when they come into Europe. I am also very concerned to avoid food coming into the European Union that does not meet the high standards of our production. We have to be very clear on this. With those reservations, much as I support enlargement, we must be careful how we do it. – Madam President, the reason I believe France should immediately lift the ban on British beef is because Britain has met the requirements of the Florence agreement. The Florence agreement reached between the EU heads of state and government on 21 June 1996 sets out five preconditions which the UK must meet before the beef export ban can be lifted. They are: implementation of a selective slaughter scheme. Introduction of an effective animal identification and movement record system, one that is fully in place. Legislation for the removal of meat and bonemeal from feedmills and farms. This is complete in the UK and not in the rest of Europe. Effective implementation of the Over Thirty Month rule, meaning that nothing over 30 months old can get into the food chain. Improved methods for removing specified risk material from bovine carcasses. These conditions have been met through the implementation of the control measures outlined above. The European Commission inspection visits verify that they have been fully and effectively implemented in the UK. This is the reason for my argument. I believe that the Commission has passed UK beef safe for export. The Commission lifted the ban on British beef on 1 August this year. The key issue is no beef animal over 30 months old is allowed into the food chain in Britain. There has not been a case – and I repeat: there has not been a case of BSE – in an animal born after 1 August 1996 in the UK. That is very important. Nothing over 30 months old and no case of BSE in anything born after 1 August 1996. There has been a selective slaughter of cattle born and reared alongside confirmed cases of BSE. There is a compulsory cull of offspring born to cattle with confirmed BSE. The cost to British farmers is enormous. UK exports to the EU alone in 1995 amounted to almost GBP 500 million, of which nearly half was to France. Nearly half a million calves were exported from Britain to the rest of Europe in 1995 and that must deliver a message in itself. The cost to farmers from the reduction of the value of the UK beef herd and by-products, along with the extra regulation, is estimated to be GBP 1000 million. While the bureaucrats and the politicians argue, farmers and their families in Britain suffer. On 1 August this year when the Commission lifted its ban, 12 out of 14 Member States to which Britain could export lifted their bans. If France had new evidence as to the safety of British beef why did the French Government not bring this information to the Commission before the ban was lifted in August 1999 – why wait until now and delay and delay and delay? People in Britain expect France to comply with European law and they also expect the European Commission to act decisively to end the illegal ban on British beef. The single market is fundamental to the very existence of the European Union and the illegal action by France throws the whole single market into disrepute. Having a war of words on whose food is safest in Europe will only result in one thing: the destruction of consumer confidence in food from Europe wherever it is produced. We learned that lesson when BSE originally came in. The longer this dispute continues, the more likely there will be a boycott of French food by British consumers. Feelings are running high in Britain and the crisis must be resolved quickly, otherwise there will be tit-for-tat retaliation on both sides of the channel. Three months after the lifting of the ban by the Commission, the Veterinary Committee is still considering evidence as to whether British beef is safe. This is unacceptable. The Commission accepted British beef was safe on 1 August when it lifted the ban. It must now act decisively and make France lift the illegal ban on British beef immediately. Compensation must be paid to the British beef industry by the French government for the damage it has caused the industry. The longer this illegal action by France continues, the more it damages the reputation of the whole of the European Union. – Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Olsson, on his excellent work in compiling this report. As a farmer myself, and someone who had a beef herd, I can testify to the wholesale damage and destruction that BSE has done – not only to the beef industry in my own country, but also in Member States throughout the Union. So I welcome his efforts in fighting BSE. This is a scourge that we must defeat across the whole of Europe. I welcome any moves that will strengthen the efforts already made in the UK and by the Commission to stamp out BSE. However, the report also raises some serious questions that are to be addressed if we are to maintain the efforts to improve food safety. Firstly, I do not believe that the whole-herd slaughter policy has any scientific base for adoption. BSE is not a contagious disease and cannot be spread between cattle. As we have seen with foot-and-mouth, to adopt the scatter-gun approach to disease control policy of mass culling does nothing to instil confidence in the consumer and only serves to spread further concern. In fact, if a farmer has to lose his whole herd for one case of BSE he may be less inclined to declare the animal and may bury it instead. I ask Commissioner Byrne to review the whole slaughter policy for BSE in the EU. Secondly, there have recently been worrying cases in the UK of beef being illegally imported from Ireland, which breaches the UK's very strict regulations. In the UK at present we have a scheme in place which prohibits beef over 30 months from entering the food chain. In one recent case, beef over 30 months from a plant in Cork was shipped illegally for processing and then resale within the UK. It is a testament to the tough and stringent controls in place in my own country that this particular breach was picked up so quickly and effectively. But I call on the Commission and other Member States to ensure that their own authorities are as vigilant against this dangerous trade. Finally, there have been far too many cases of meat containing specified risk material being exported into the United Kingdom. The growing number of cases and the fact that they come from so many Member States – Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain and Ireland, to name but a few – must be a huge concern for us all. I am not seeking to apportion blame in any way, but if we wish to see the farming industry – particularly the beef industry – flourish in Europe, we must all shoulder the responsibility to enforce the rules. What I am calling for is a mood of resilience and an ardour to implement the EU regulations and the tough controls that we have in place, and for us to work together to improve the inspection regimes in all Member States. I call upon the Commission to take a more robust attitude to the enforcement of this regulation. We have found in the United Kingdom that the only way to rebuild the beef industry is to rebuild consumer confidence. We will only do that by guaranteeing the public a safe product that they can trust. – Mr President, I should like to ask the Commissioner three questions. How soon does he think the 350 000 ceiling on beef taken into intervention will be passed and how far does he expect it to go? Is it not better to incinerate animals over 30 months old rather than start putting too much of this old beef into intervention? Finally, I do not understand the 90-animal limit because surely extensification, greening the agricultural policy is the way forward. I can take the Commissioner to many farms in the UK where there are over 90 cattle being raised on an extensive-type regime and to smaller farms where cattle are intensively produced. So surely it is the extensification payment that should be altered, not this 90-animal ceiling. . The reform of the CFP contained a proposal to set up RACs, and British Conservative MEPs today voted to support that proposal. We nevertheless believe that the EC has already relegated these bodies to the sidelines in respect of fisheries management by starving them of adequate funding and insisting that their role be purely 'advisory'. We fear that meaningful stakeholder involvement will therefore be restricted to the role of mere 'talking shops', with Brussels continuing to take all the management decisions. This is not good enough, and cannot resolve the problems which have resulted in the failure of the CFP. Thus, although we regard the creation of RACs as a tiny step in the right direction, we remain resolute in our view that UK withdrawal from the CFP, returning management to local and national control, remains the only real way to safeguard the future of the UK fisheries sector and fish stocks. – Madam President, firstly I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very courageous report. This is going to be very painful for all fishermen, because it will mean that there will be many reductions in the catch and many job losses. She refers to that in her report. There are some measures there to help fishermen. One thing we can be sure of is that fish do not recognise any border or boundary. We must also recognise that this is a cod and hake report. I want to make sure that we urge all colleagues to vote for hake to be reintroduced to this report. Otherwise we will be sitting here in the not very distant future saying that the hake stocks have been reduced so dramatically that we need even more draconian measures in order to reinstate them. The rapporteur said that hake stocks have been reduced by 50% since 1980, so we must take measures to make sure that they improve. We also have to accept that when fish are swimming in the sea they do not separate themselves out neatly, so when you go out to fish one particular species you cannot always be sure that is the only species you catch. We have to take a wider look at all the conservation measures. We must in particular find a solution to discards of fish, tradable quotas when you come ashore or whatever it may be. There must be a way to stop discarding healthy fish, because the stocks are not there and we must make sure that they are built up again. We have only to look at what has happened in Canada to see that if you carry on fishing then there is going to be no fish for anybody. It is also wrong for one particular Member State to exert enormous political pressure to try and have hake removed from this report and then try to get more fish for itself. At the end of the day it does not matter what nationality we are. If there are no fish, there are no stocks and nobody will be able to fish. We have to be sure that these measures are put in place. I again congratulate the rapporteur and ask that we all vote for what was originally a cod and hake report – and make sure that we do have a cod and hake report. – Commissioner Byrne, I should like to go back to the question of imported meat from outside the European Union. You say that it has to be licensed. I think there are problems with this licensing. When cases break out in these countries there is a time lag. All this needs to be tightened up. You need to be absolutely certain that meat from countries that have foot-and-mouth disease infection cannot enter the European Union. I should like to join with other colleagues and say how terrible it has been for the farming community in Britain. The farmers feel that the gods have deserted them entirely after BSE, and now foot-and-mouth. Can I also ask as regards compensation whether it is possible for the Commission to consider compensation, not only for those farmers that are directly hit by foot-and-mouth disease, but those that are also closed down by not being able to move their livestock? – Mr President, on a point of order, history seems to be repeating itself. The vote on the calendar followed a formal sitting last time. I wish to make sure in this great democracy that you give people time to get back into their seats to vote. It seems too much of a coincidence that it happened exactly the same this year as it did last year. Madam President, may I firstly say that I do not blame you personally, but many colleagues have not been able to speak in the debate because they have left the Chamber while we wait for another Commissioner. Commissioner Fischler is sitting patiently, listening to our debate, and half our colleagues have been unable to contribute to it. This is no way to organise business. This debate should now be finished and persons on the list should be recalled to speak. Before I make my points to the rapporteur, I would ask you to deduct the 38 seconds I have just spoken for. I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his comprehensive report. Many of the points he raises are certainly to be welcomed. I was particularly pleased with the emphasis placed on the need to prevent incidental mortality among dolphins and other species associated with tuna fisheries. Aside from tuna fishing, many dolphins are being washed up dead in my own area of the South-West because of pair trawling. This is therefore an important issue. I was also happy to hear the rapporteur insisting that products from third countries should meet the same food safety and quality standards as our own. This is something for which we on the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have campaigned hard with regard to farm products. The same should naturally apply to fisheries products. Our consumers have a right to safe food, and third-country imports must be of the same high standard. Commissioner Fischler spoke about third-country agreements. I am always worried about these agreements because, although many new agreements include conservation measures, there is little conservation to be seen in reality. What is happening off the coast of Africa is much more than exploitation of waters. I believe we are threatening the indigenous fisherman. If there are going to be third-country agreements, they will have to be much better monitored and we must be sure that fish are being caught safely and that our money is being spent wisely. My final point is that, with regard to labelling catches as tuna-friendly and purchasing dolphin-friendly tuna, we must be sure that practices are genuinely tuna- and dolphin-friendly, that there is no huge by-catch with caught tuna and that people do not purchase such products because they think they are both conservation-friendly and by-catch-friendly, when, in fact, a large number of turtles, sharks and dolphins are evidently being caught. This is misleading, and we have to be very careful when using the 'friendly' label. – Madam Chairman, I rise on a point of order. I see  that certain Members in the House at this time are raising banners in support of  a cause.  I am sure the overwhelming majority, myself included, agree with the sentiment but can  you advise us on any rules, regulations or guidance that you wish to give this House in terms of manifestations in any form  other than speaking under the Rules of Procedure of the House? – Mr President, as Members know, it is customary in our speeches to congratulate the rapporteur. That I readily do in this case, but, like Mr Gemelli, the chairman of the committee, I want to go beyond what is conventional and especially place on record my appreciation of the work carried out over many years by Mrs González in the Committee on Petitions. She and I come from quite different points on the political spectrum but, in the Committee on Petitions, we all find that we share a common interest, regardless of nationality or politics, in protecting the rights of the individual citizen. Mrs González has undoubtedly been a doughty fighter for the citizens of Spain and particularly for the environment of her beloved country. The European Union is often accused of having a democratic deficit. Sometimes that is a fair criticism, sometimes perhaps it is over-stated, but the Committee on Petitions is a very real route by which citizens can bring their complaints to this Parliament and have them fully and properly addressed. I sometimes say that, in the Committee on Petitions, 'all human life is there'. I shall take some examples from my own country, the United Kingdom. We have British pensioners who retired to Spain – who is to blame them! – but the British Government did not want to give them the winter fuel allowance that they had paid for all their lives. It was only after petitioning this Parliament that they got that allowance. There is a German citizen currently living in my constituency who thought that he was entitled to a pension from the German Government. It refused to pay. He petitioned Parliament and the German Government consequently agreed to pay. Furthermore, the pension was back-paid to 1995, so that was a very welcome addition to his income. British customs services tried to stop British citizens using their rights to go to France to buy the fine wines for which that country is rightly renowned. As a result of petitions, that has been stopped and British Customs and Excise has been told that it must stop confiscating not just the wine, but also the cars of British citizens. Petitioning is a way of getting issues onto the floor of this House. Later on this morning, there will be a debate on the Lloyd's of London petitions. I too congratulate the Commission staff and officials. They respond very well to our requests. Unfortunately, the Council is not quite so agreeable. I look at the empty seats over there and see that the Council appears not to be interested either in the work of the Ombudsman or in the work of the Committee on Petitions. That is a shame. It is not the Italian presidency's fault; it is a long-standing problem involving all Councils. Before we are too congratulatory I would, however, draw attention to the problem of the Code of Good Administrative Behaviour. I heard what Commissioner de Palacio said. I am sure her heart is in the right place, but it is high time that we had a code of administrative behaviour that was binding on the institutions, not voluntary, and a code that was uniform across each of the institutions. I do not consider that 2005 is remotely good enough. We have waited far too long to get this code and if the Commission would only adopt it, I am sure many of the problems the institutions currently face could be resolved. I thank Mrs González for her work. This committee may not rank as the greatest committee in Parliament but, in terms of protecting the citizens, it is the best. – The first two sentences of the Laeken Declaration about the debilitating effects of the two World Wars confirm my belief that the European Union is a force for good in the world and Britain, like all other Member States, derives great benefit from the existence of the EU. The remains of my grandfather, like many others, lie somewhere in Flanders on the battlefield of the Somme. My father fought in Montgomery's army in Flanders for the liberation of Brussels. I am still in Flanders, the third generation of my humble family, fighting here for Britain's interests. Can there be any doubt as to which generation has got right the way to work out Europe's relations? The simple certainties of the 20th century are less clear in the complexities of the 21st century. As I read on in the Laeken Declaration I recall the saying we have in English that, like the curate's egg, it is good in parts. I particularly like the reference that we are a continent of liberty and, above all, of diversity. Unlike the United States of America, Europe is a voluntary association of sovereign independent states. We must never forget that. Of course we need European-level institutions but let us also recall the wise words of Jacques Santer: "Europe must do less better". There needs to be a clearer definition of subsidiarity on "less". Only go to European level for that which can only be done at European level. On "better" I urge Commission and Council to look closely at the call of this Parliament for a uniform and compulsory code of good administrative behaviour. The response I received to a Parliamentary question last week from the Commission was dismissive of Parliament's call made in September for such a uniform and compulsory code. That is not the right attitude, nor is it the way to get the European public on side. The case for such a code has been set up by the Ombudsman, Jacob Söderman. I am pleased he will be an observer at the Convention but I would say to Commission and Council that you would do well to listen to him as well as to allow him to observe. As the final speaker from the floor this year, may I wish all the staff, all the Members and all the people of Europe a very merry Christmas and a happy New Year. – Mr President, I see from my order paper that the vote on the situation in Iraq has been withdrawn. Can I be told at whose request, and what reasons were given for withdrawing that? . – Mr President, this is the third occasion I have been asked to be draftsman for the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport. It is not an easy job, there is never enough money, but it is one I would rather do than be the general budget rapporteur. I would like to add my thanks to those already expressed to Mr Bourlanges for the support he has shown to the Culture Committee. Culture has not come out of the budget process as well as it wished, but we are doing rather better than the Council of Ministers’ proposal and have figures close to the 1999 level. Our main education programme, Socrates, and the programmes of Youth and Culture have been mauled by the Council of Ministers. I would say that the EUR 238 million proposed for Socrates is simply not enough to do a sensible job. Last week I met the Committee of British University Vice-Chancellors. They told me that no-one – student or university – gets involved in Socrates because of the money. They do it because they believe in Europe and they want to make the single market work. But we have to ask ourselves, are the figures now so low as to make the objectives unrealistic? Let us hope that the conciliation procedure taking place tomorrow will recognise the need to give a higher priority to Europe’s students and increase the funding. The total for our share of the budget is approximately EUR 600 million, a lot of money until you divide it by 370 million people – less than 1% of our budget, not a bottomless pit. In the year 2000, the EU will spend less than EUR 2 per citizen on education, encouraging young people to participate in exchange programmes or to acquire knowledge of different languages and cultures, on informing its citizens about the future developments of the Union while supporting our audio-visual industry. Of this scant EUR 2 support for Europe’s cultural heritage will be less than 20 cents. The call for the millennium must be EUR 1 per head on Europe’s culture. What we are currently engaged in is tokenism and symbolic expenditure only. Even there we manage to get it wrong. I do not criticise individual staff, but I receive too many complaints from prestigious organisations like the European Youth Orchestra, the European Youth Parliament, the Yehudi Menuhin Foundation – renowned organisations doing a wonderful job for Europe and our young people. Not one of those organisations covered by budget lines 3021 or B3-2005 has received a single euro yet in 1999 for their budgets. Can we make the millennium the year when our systems work. Mr Prodi, Mrs Reding and Mrs Schreyer, we are relying on you to do it better this coming year. I will finish by telling you a story. I live in a small village in Hampshire with a population of 2 500 people. My wife is the chairman of the parish council. I asked her what she spends on cultural, sports and social activities for the village. They spend EUR 50 000, or EUR 20 per head. So if anybody comes to me for European support, I tell them they are much more likely to get realistic support from their village council than they are from the EU. – Madam President, outside the door of this Chamber there is somebody dressed as a cigarette packet. I have no objections to people dressing as cigarette packets but I have objections to what I take to be political manifestations outside the very door to the Hemicycle. Is this allowed under our Rules? Mr President, I represent the south-east region of England and am the only Member to live in the county of Hampshire, very close to the port of Southampton, the home port of the new , which will be the greatest liner in the world. This liner, built in France, will sail from England, showing there is some life left in the . I know that the people of Southampton, and the port workers of that city, would wish to associate themselves with the condolences expressed to the families of the people killed and to those injured in the awful accident at Saint-Nazaire. – Madam President, I will add to the unanimity of the evening and say that I support the adoption of Culture 2000 and add my thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura, who took over from our former colleague Nana Mouskouri. Both of them have done a first-class job. Alongside the debate we had earlier on in the day, culture may not seem that important, but it is; and we have to be careful in the European Parliament not to allow the urgent to get in the way of the important. Why do I say that culture is important? Well in simple economic terms, Europe’s culture adds to genuine prosperity. Where would Europe’s tourism industry be without the richness of our culture? But, more importantly than that, cultural activities are what make mankind civilised. Culture is at the root of our democratic beliefs; and an uncultured society is not going to sustain tolerance and freedom and democracy. Cultural diversity is important, and it is under threat. However, it is not under threat from Europe. Many people in my country say they see British culture being under threat, for example, from Portugal, from Germany, from Finland, for heaven’s sake. We do drink port wine, and we do like German beer, and we even use Finnish saunas, but it is not from Europe that culture is under threat. What I do see right across Europe is people drinking Coca Cola, eating hamburgers, wearing baseball caps, watching Hollywood films and often doing all this at the same time. Now I do not believe that protectionism and regulation is the way of defending Europe’s culture, but I do believe in lending a helping hand when we can. That is what Culture 2000 is about. So, I say to the Council of Ministers: Keep this programme genuinely under review. Are we doing enough? And, I say to Madame Reding, thank you for the support and the help you have given so far, keep up the good work, we are on your side. – Mr President, I was scheduled yesterday to speak in the debate on the media but, unfortunately, because of problems getting to Strasbourg, I was unable to make my timeslot. I simply want to say that coming from the United Kingdom – renowned for its fogs, not to say for its smogs – I can in no way criticise the climate of Strasbourg. Indeed, I want to congratulate and thank the airport staff for putting safety first. I simply want to apologise to the presidency and to the House for missing my timeslot. I had left my home at 6 a.m. in a brave attempt to be here. Mr President, I regret that the PSE Group made no attempt to contact me or my office about this proposal they were going to make. The Committee on Petitions would very keenly wish to respect and observe the Rules of the House and that is why our Chairman, Mr Gemelli, took careful legal advice. The legal advice we have received from the Parliament's Legal Service is that we can most certainly proceed with the report on Thursday. I myself have submitted an amendment which I will commend to the House on Thursday. It simply says that this House reserves its right, if it does not receive information from the Commission, to carry out further parliamentary inquiries. I regret that Mr Cashman is seeking to make this so contentious. The first petition came to us in 1997. There is no good reason why this House should delay debating that report. The British Conservative Members decided to abstain in our vote on this report. This should not be construed at all that we are not opposed to discrimination. We are opposed to discrimination, we do believe in equality of treatment between men and women. We do not accept, however, that the imposition of legal quotas is the way to achieve equality of treatment. Quite the reverse. We think quotas of themselves institutionalise discrimination. We believe that women the world over and especially here in Europe are making a valuable and positive contribution to the democratic process. We are convinced that role will develop fully and effectively without ‘progressive’ or ‘artificial means’. On the issue of making contraceptives more widely available we voted against the amendment because we believe these are issues of personal morality and conscience and not an issue where the European Union should be making a political stand. For these reasons we voted against certain amendments and abstained on the final vote. – Mr President, I should like to bring a slightly different dimension to the debate and bring in the experience of Parliament's Committee on Petitions where pensions and social security issues constitute 20% of the petitions brought to the committee's attention. I add my own congratulations to Mr Fatuzzo and his own way of pressing the needs of pensioners. Pensioners across Europe have reason to be grateful to him for the work he has done. The issue that tends to be raised most with the Committee on Petitions is increasingly that of people who in their working lives exercise their right to move across and work in various countries in Europe and then retire elsewhere. I well remember the case of a German citizen, married to a French woman, who had spent much of his working life in Belgium, had then retired to Spain and wanted to know who was going to help him in filling in his pension claim forms. There was also an Italian citizen who worked much of his time in Luxembourg and then retired to Italy. He pointed out that the arrangements (in place at the time) made it possible to accumulate benefits, but nevertheless penalised migrant workers who found themselves having to deal with any number of national pension schemes. In another case earlier this year we considered a petition from a British citizen, on behalf of 40,000 British pensioners living in Spain, who complained that the British Government was refusing to pay them the winter fuel allowance. His argument was that it was paid to all pensioners living in Britain, regardless of means, regardless of how cold or warm it was in the part of Britain they lived in. I represent the Isle of Wight – the sunniest part of the United Kingdom – but the same winter fuel allowance is paid to people living in the cold north of Scotland; the British Government refused to pay this to the UK citizens in Spain. These citizens appealed to the European Parliament and I am delighted to say that as a result of that petition, the winter fuel allowance is now to be paid to British pensioners wherever they live. The point I make is that British pensioners have to look to the British Government, German pensioners to the German Government and so on. I do not disagree that it is the responsibility of national governments, but the point that needs to be made, is that more and more thousands of citizens who are pensioners, who work in different countries in Europe, will retire to different countries in Europe. It is very important that the Member States that have responsibility for pension schemes bear in mind the needs of citizens who use their European rights to work and retire in different countries of the Union. – If you are going to be fair Mr President, let me say I express total satisfaction with the reply of the Commission. – Mr President, may I take this opportunity to be the first Member to congratulate Professor Diamandouros on his election as European Ombudsman. It has been my pleasure over the last few years to work with Jacob Söderman, who has been an outstanding Ombudsman for Europe, but I am very happy to see that the position of Ombudsman will continue in the safe hands of Professor Diamandouros. The post of Ombudsman is a crucial post for European democracy. It is important that it is in competent hands and we now see that it will be. One point I would like to make is this. All the candidates for Ombudsman – and they should all be thanked for their contribution to the debate – have upheld the code of good administrative behaviour proposed and endorsed by this Parliament and proposed by Mr Söderman. We should very firmly say to the institutions of Europe, particularly the Commission, that they should also now seize the opportunity without any further delay to endorse that code, so that we can be quite sure that Europe has the good administration it needs and deserves and which all the servants of the institutions wish to provide. I offer Professor Diamandouros all my congratulations. – I heard what the Commission had to say about Europe by Satellite, but is the Commissioner satisfied that local and regional television stations across Europe are adequately aware of their rights of access to Europe by Satellite? Can they do it easily technically? I find that in the south of England that is not the case. Is there anything the Commissioner can promise to do about making sure that local television stations get easy access to the Europe by Satellite server? .  Mr President, it is a particular pleasure to participate in a late-night debate, and the issue of media concentration is serious and certainly merits debate. One only has to read the British press today and speculations on why Tony Blair has made his U-turn on an EU referendum to see that is the case. However, I regret the focus in this report on the attacks made on the Italian Government. That has detracted from the quality of the report. The Committee on Culture, for which I am speaking, has taken the issue very seriously and has repeatedly underlined that pluralism in the media is fundamental for safeguarding democracy and cultural diversity in Europe. In our report on the television without frontiers directive, we asked for a Green Paper from the Commission and a special study on this subject. We are still waiting for that Green Paper. We recognise that the Member States have primary responsibility. However, in today's rapidly shrinking world, the European Union cannot ignore its responsibilities and its special position free from the power of one or two powerful press magnates. It is a pity this report has confused these aims with naked political attacks on the Italian Government. The issue deserved better. – Madam President, I would not want Members of this House to think that I do not have a sense of humour. I did refer yesterday to the man or woman dressed as a cigarette packet standing outside this Chamber. But I was making a serious point and maybe yesterday it was taken rather too lightheartedly. I have a letter from you, Madam President, dated 6 April, in which it was agreed by the College of Quaestors that the area around the Chambers in Brussels and Strasbourg should be regarded as a neutral zone in which demonstrations, exhibitions or similar activities intended to influence Members would not be tolerated. You went on to say that you would investigate ways of ensuring that there would be no recurrence. I hope that you and the College of Quaestors will take this seriously because it is an encroachment on the right of Members to come to this House and vote freely on issues that their electors have sent them here to debate. The jobs of one thousand people in my constituency are now at risk as a result of the decisions that were taken here yesterday. – Mr President, I am disappointed with that response. The European Parliament held a hearing just a few weeks ago with representatives from the Minister's country as well as from my own. The point was made very strongly there by representatives of the radio industry that digital radio is one sector of media communication that is not developing as quickly and as effectively as it might do, and the feeling was that political backing was lacking. I would like to think that the Council, were they to receive a proposal from the Commission, would behave emphatically in support of digital radio. A problem has also arisen that various elements of the digital radio spectrum are now being allocated across Europe often quite freely, at no charge at all. Yet that same spectrum would, of course, be very profitable if were used for telephone communications. I wonder if can we be assured that the Council of Ministers will look very carefully at this and be sure that it does not pose any threat to the development of digital radio in Europe. – Mr President, I would like to add my congratulations and thanks to the Ombudsman for the report which he has presented this year and also to Mrs Thors and Mrs Lambert for their reports to the Parliament. All these reports, particularly that of the Ombudsman, show the very reliable, dependable work that has been done over the year. The European citizens undoubtedly need somebody to whom they can turn if they have problems with the administration and in Mr Söderman I know that we have an Ombudsman upon whom we can depend. I saw that at first hand when I attended the seminar in Paris. It was very good to see the respect in which the European Ombudsman is held by his colleagues, the national ombudsmen. On this side of the House we certainly believe the Ombudsman should have all the powers that he needs to discharge his responsibilities. On access to documents, we happen to think that the views of the Constitutional Affairs Committee are important, but that should not be taken to mean that we have any doubts at all about the principle that the Ombudsman must have access to documents. In that he has our full support. It is surprising that last year the Petitions Committee was at some risk and the report by Mrs Lambert shows the very good work that has been down by the Petitions Committee. With our chairman Mr Gemelli we are now looking at ways of making the Petitions Committee more effective and more efficient in the work it does on behalf of citizens. One of the important things that we will be bringing forward to the Parliament is a Code of Good Administrative Behaviour. It is important that citizens and the officials of the institutions know what is reasonable behaviour so that all have a standard to which they can refer. I would also like to thank the Commission for the support we have received in the Petitions Committee. That has been very good and very effective through the year. I hope under the French Presidency we will get the same support from the Council but that unfortunately has been lacking in the past. – Mr President, I hope the rapporteur will not mind if I say that this is a relatively obscure report that we are taking fairly late on a Thursday evening and that it goes right to the very heart of democracy in the European Union: How do we protect the rights of European citizens? There is no doubt that in that role the position of Ombudsman is absolutely critical. The Ombudsman has a distinctive role and position in the framework of the European institution, but it is a role that requires autonomy. As we all know, if you are to be independent you need to have financial independence. In English we have a phrase: "He who pays the piper calls the tune." Those who pay for activities or organisations are generally seen to wield some power over those activities or organisations. That is why the Ombudsman needs to be financially autonomous and as independent as possible so that we in this Parliament cannot be accused of calling the tune. The public need to have the utmost confidence that the Ombudsman is completely impartial in his investigations. I, of course, like all Members of this Parliament, have total confidence that Mr Jacob Söderman discharges his responsibilities totally independently but that must be seen to be the case. That is why financial autonomy is necessary. It is perhaps also worth pointing out to European citizens that the Ombudsman's office – not him personally – costs something like EUR 3.9 million a year or less than one cent per person in the European Union. To my English listeners that is roughly half a penny per annum and that is money well spent. Thanks to the initiative taken by the Chairman of the Committee on Petitions, Mr Gemelli, the correct legal action has been taken to amend the 1994 decision by the European Parliament on the Ombudsman's competencies and duties. As a result of this, the Petitions Committee, in the González Álvarez report, said that the procedure to amend the Ombudsman's statute should be seen in the light of Article 195 of the European Communities Treaty. Let us never forget that the role of the Ombudsman is one that is enshrined in the European treaties. The EPP/ED Group supports the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the Ombudsman's competences should be enlarged and the sooner the better, especially in the fields of the Ombudsman's investigative powers laid down in Article 3 of the 1994 decision. The quality of the Ombudsman's actions taken so far proves that the institution of the Ombudsman is growing as a full and necessary instrument for European citizens to submit complaints of maladministration by European institutions. We in my group appreciate the Ombudsman's support for the Petitions Committee, the committee that is responsible for relations between the Ombudsman and Parliament. In this respect the EPP/ED Group encourages the Ombudsman to continue his work through his special reports which we are always ready to consider in a positive spirit of cooperation with the Ombudsman. I hope that in the very near future Parliament will consider enhancing the Ombudsman's investigative powers. If that happens, the Petitions Committee would expect to be fully and carefully consulted by the Constitutional Affairs Committee. We are, as I have already said, the committee with responsibility for relations with the Ombudsman and we work closely with him. The EPP/ED Group supports this report therefore and hopes that this, along with the Bösch report on the Ombudsman's report on recruitment procedures, is a sign of the European Parliament's continued commitment to increasing transparency and accountability. We do not need extra work and we do not want to see examples of maladministration, but it is important that we remind European citizens that the office of Ombudsman is there to help them if problems of maladministration arise. A lot of people unfairly criticise us for the democratic deficit. The Ombudsman's office certainly helps to redress that democratic deficit. – Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur on the work that she has done. There are two simple points I want to make. There are some things that the public sector cannot do and some things the market cannot do. Certainly the public sector cannot make good films. I do not believe it can do much of a job of judging what is a good film. Whenever we try it in the United Kingdom, any support from the government tends to mean that the film is going to be a flop. We need to very careful about that. Similarly, the market does not have adequate resources or adequate ability to ensure that we have sufficiently skilled and trained people. That certainly is an area that is proposed in this report and is a responsibility at a European level. I must pay tribute to organisations like, in Britain, the National Film School in Beaconsfield, which needs help to do its work. I was pleased to see there are some references to digital radio in this report, but not enough. We should not forget the radio sector in audio-visual. I hope that will not be forgotten as this report goes through. Finally, it is very easy to write a long speech. It is much harder to give a short speech. It is easy to spend a large budget, but difficult to spend a small budget. We look to the Commission to spend the money that they have efficiently and effectively. – Mr President, on a point of order, can we assume from that intervention that all the other Members of the British Labour Delegation believe in socialist principles? – Mr President, in his speech Mr Cashman made various quite serious allegations. I concede that he has been consistent throughout in seeking to block this report by every means and at every turn. I would simply ask you to confirm that the action of the House in receiving this report is fully in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that it is acceptable. As regards paragraph 5 concerning the accompanying explanatory statement, I am more than ready to make an oral amendment to my report that the explanatory statement, in accord with our usual practice, should not be included with the report. It is the report that is important, but I would welcome your confirmation on that point. – Mr President, I had not expected to speak today because I represent the south-east of England which is one of the more prosperous regions of England and of Europe. We pay the taxes that make up the grants that other areas receive. We have no Objective 1 funding. What Objective 2 funding we had has been reduced by the present government and the Conver Fund that used to be very helpful is now being phased out. So, why do I speak? Because even in the south-east of England there are pockets of deprivation. In particular I want to speak of the Isle of Wight, a beautiful island with 130 000 good people but 68% GDP per head of the European average – a very poor region. It gets no support from Europe. Why not? It does not get the grant from Europe because at NUTS II it is classified with Hampshire. Hampshire is a prosperous county – 100% of European average so, no money for the Isle of Wight. Yet, it has a population of 130 000, a bigger population than the Åland Islands which are NUTS II and do get grants from the European Union. The island has taken its case against the British Government that it feels is treating it unfairly, to the High Court in London. I think they might win that case. As far as Europe is concerned, on my advice, they took their case to the Ombudsman because we believed that EUROSTAT, by refusing to define the Isle of Wight as a separate NUTS II region, was treating the island unfairly. This week, in what I would say is a landmark ruling by the European Ombudsman, he has said that constitutes maladministration by EUROSTAT and by the European Commission. Let me read out his ruling: “In the present case the Commission has not provided the Ombudsman with elements which show that EUROSTAT, when deciding not to classify the Isle of Wight as a separate NUTS II region, has taken into account all relevant factors including Article 158 of the Treaty and the Viola report of the European Parliament”. He has recommended that the Commission and EUROSTAT should look again at this particular problem. I would ask the Commission to consider fairly this recommendation that has come from the Ombudsman so that I can go back to the people of the Isle of Wight and say that this issue will be looked at again, that they can expect the Commission to treat fairly the particular problems and concerns of the island. Then we can get in on this act of additionality and take up our fight with the British Government to make sure that we get support from Europe and from the British Government to treat fairly an island which to date has not been fairly treated either by the British Government or by the European Union. . – Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, which, although it cannot be described as a large spending committee, has an important role: to protect the rights of citizens who appeal to this Parliament to look after their rights. We have two very modest requests of the budget which are contained within the Buitenweg report. One is that there should be a proper database so that citizens can follow their petitions through the Internet. We expect that to be up and running by the end of next year and we want there to be money for that. Secondly, in preparation for enlargement, whatever language regime we choose, preparations must be made to enable citizens of the applicant countries to petition this Parliament in their own language. Finally, I should like to make the point that the Committee on Petitions does not require money, but that it does require the support of Parliament, the Commission and the Council so that it can have access to documents. That is free. It does not cost anything. But I can tell you that at present there are a number of petitions – for instance the Lloyd's petition – concerning which the Commission and Council are refusing Parliament access to information. – Mr President, most people say they believe in open and transparent government. I am quite sure the Commission and the Council are genuine in what they say. I congratulate them on the progress made so far but none of us should deceive ourselves into thinking that we do not need a lot more work before Europe is truly open and transparent. I want to use my time to cite just one example – a petition to the European Parliament from various names at Lloyds of London. The petition claims that the United Kingdom Government has not properly applied the EU insurance directives. As a result of the petition the Commission very properly submitted, over a year ago, questions to the United Kingdom Government. That is when secrecy and cover-up begin. The Commission has allowed members of the Committee on Petitions – but only members – to see the actual questionnaire, and then only under extremely stringent conditions. Why not reveal the questions to the public, why not to the petitioners? The Commission would show it is doing its job. As for the answers, they are top secret. Nobody is allowed to know them – neither the Members of Parliament nor the petitioners – nobody. The UK Government says it is an informal communication and that it does not reveal informal communications. The Commission says that under the Framework Agreement it is not allowed to reveal the answers because there may be legal proceedings. The British Government does not have a leg to stand on. If this is not a formal communication, I would like to know what is. The Commission may have some argument, but I would remind the Commissioner of the Zwartveld judgement. In 1990 the Commission refused access to documents because it claimed there might be legal proceedings. The ECJ insisted that the documents were presented. So I would say to the Commissioner this afternoon – you have made some progress but I can give you this example to show that a great deal of progress is still needed in this respect. . – Mr President, the culture, education and information element of the budget accounts for barely half of 1% of the EU budget, compared with 50% of the budget that goes on agriculture. So I will remind Parliament and the Commissioners, as culture spokesmen do every year, that perhaps we have not got our priorities quite right. To turn to the issue of information: this should be a shared responsibility between the institutions and the Member States. We wonder whether the Member States have got their responsibilities quite right in this respect. Earlier this year the Culture Committee visited Copenhagen, and we would like to pay particular tribute to the Danish Government and Danish Parliament for the information they give to their citizens about the working of the European Union. The EU has a responsibility to see that its citizens are well informed. Certain members of staff make great efforts in this respect, and we would also pay tribute to Commissioner Vitorino for the work and the vision that he is putting into this. However, we are not succeeding. The citizens of the European Union do not have enough information. We do not live in a neutral situation, we live in a situation where there is a great deal of disinformation and it is the responsibility of all concerned to see that is answered. I therefore make no apology when I point out that the proposed budget for information policy on the various B3 lines is less than EUR 100 milion or less than 37 cents per citizen per annum. That is a  small sum indeed. As I speak, I know that Euronews – the television channel that seeks to give objective information about all European issues – is itself suffering very serious financial difficulties. I hope the Commission and the budget rapporteur will look very closely at their pleas and make sure that Euronews is a success. I will remind the House that the successful slogan for the Irish 'No' campagin was 'If you don't know, vote no.' We must see that the European citizens do not vote no, because they understand what the European Union is about. – Madam President, last year with the European Parliament’s Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, I had the opportunity to visit Cracow in Poland. We learned a great deal from that visit, not least that the applicant countries will make a tremendous contribution to the cultural life and vitality of Europe. We asked a question of one of the professors at the Cultural Institute in Cracow: Is there a distinctive European culture The reply summed it up neatly: He said he often visited America, and clearly we share a western culture with the United States, but nonetheless when he went there was something missing and that was the historic environment. He said that in city like Cracow you can see, touch, feel history and culture all around. I can certainly see why as a citizen of that city he made that point. So I endorse Mr Graça Moura's comment that it was regrettable that the historic environment was not included in the forum on cultural cooperation last year. We must never neglect the historic environment in all our countries. I simply endorse the rapporteurs call to include our Mediterranean neighbours, our Islamic neighbours; we must cooperate with the Islamic countries. In particular we must remember that Europe today is a multicultural society. We must rejoice in that and we must make sure that our programme contains significant elements to deal with that. There has been comment today, some of them fair criticisms, about difficulties in administration, but I want to cite a success story. I was delighted in my own constituency of Portsmouth that a grant of EUR 150 000 was given to a consortium of museums, including Portsmouth's D-Day Museum, dedicated to peace across Europe. That is a project that certainly has been very successful and they are delighted to have received European support. We must monitor projects very carefully. That is one I am sure that will pass with flying colours. If we want more money for culture in Europe, let us think seriously about a European lottery to get the money for it. . – Mr President, I shall talk about a very tiny, but nevertheless very important, element of the budget: that of the Committee on Petitions. I should also like to mention the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport. Both of these committees come into very close contact with the individual European citizen. In recent years the Petitions Committee has developed the possibility of inviting petitioners to attend committee meetings, where appropriate, to have their petition addressed. We need to ensure that there is adequate funding to enable citizens to do that, where appropriate. Petitioning Parliament is an essential right for the citizens of Europe. The Petitions Committee often offers the citizen a way of cutting through the bureaucracy of Europe to address issues affecting their lives. I am talking about only a very modest increase in the sums available, but this would send out a very big message to the European people. We must also remember that the Ombudsman is the other great defender of citizens' rights. According to Eurobarometer, 87% of citizens recognise their right to go to the European Ombudsman. We have just appointed a new Ombudsman. I have no personal interest in this, but we need to ensure that there is adequate funding for the Ombudsman to have the staff and resources to cope with the enlargement of Europe. On culture – less than 0.5% of total expenditure – we must have an effective procedure for the A-30 lines. I heard what the Commissioner said earlier. I welcome that. Timing is critical in this. I hope that we will have the procedures in place so that bodies like the European Youth Orchestra and the Yehudi Menuhin Foundation know that their future is assured. – Madam President, I rise under Rule 174, the right to petition the European Parliament. You may be aware of a number of petitions concerning Lloyd's of London, as well as complaints to the European Commission. One of the names of Lloyd's of London received a letter from Lloyd's criticising him for daring to raise this matter with the Commission, and a rather threatening letter saying that it was a clear breach of the terms of an agreement. Lloyd's therefore requested written confirmation within seven days that this citizen would desist from taking any further action in breach of the settlement agreement. I have written to the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, saying that this not only dealt with complaints but also the right to petition Parliament. The President is looking into the question of complaints to the Commission, but he said clearly this is an issue that Parliament would itself want to address. I will certainly give you full details of this later but it is such a serious matter that I thought it should be raised in the House now. – Mr President, there is no doubt that the Commission has a difficult task in ensuring that the rules of the single market and competition policy operate fairly and properly across the continent and all sectors of the economy. I recognise their commitment and determination to do that and, of course, that sport and especially football are big business and cannot expect to be exempt from the normal rules of business. I am far from convinced that the football transfer system should be at the top of the Commission's hit list at the present time. It would be very prudent for the Commission to allow plenty of time for this, to allow it to go into extra time, not just so that we get a result but that we get a good result, a result that would be good for the single market and good for football. I know that FIFA have played for time already and has waited far too long before coming up with any response to the Commission's formal statement issued back in 1998. In many respects they have only themselves to blame for the present situation. However, let us not forget that football is of crucial interest to millions of our citizens. As a famous English footballer, Jackie Charlton, said, it is not just a matter of life and death; it is more important than that. The EU must not shrug its shoulders and say  if banning the transfer system does irreparable harm to football. Many small clubs depend on the revenue stream that comes from transfer fees. The transfer fee is not just a wealth distributor, it is a wealth retainer. If transfers go, then what is to stop the upward spiral of footballers' wages? The manufacturers of Alfa Romeos may do very well, but that money will be lost to football. I certainly agree with the Commission that there is no need to have a mention of sport in the Treaty. What we need is an intelligent and flexible way of interpreting the present rules. I urge the Commission to negotiate positively with the national and international football authorities. I suggest that the Commission give much higher priority to other abuses of the single market for instance, the parallel import of designer goods. I would like to see much more effective moves to create a single market for newspapers and journals across Europe. The car industry too is still full of obstacles to trade. I suggest to the Commission it puts those at the top of its list and does not allow football to become an own goal for the European Union. – Mr President, I am as concerned as anybody in this House about the suffering of the people of Iraq as the result of sanctions but also of the actions of their own government. We should all remember that sanctions are sometimes better than the alternatives that we may have to consider. If we are to support this resolution then Iraq must most definitely honour its obligations under all the United Nations resolutions. We, as a Parliament, must stand by our resolution of January this year, calling for the release of all Kuwaitis and other non-Iraqi nationals who are still imprisoned in Iraq. I had the opportunity to visit Iraq last month. I met the families of the Kuwaiti prisoners. I can tell you that fathers do not forget their sons, brothers do not forget their brothers, children do not forget their fathers; nor should this House. We should remind Saddam Hussein that he must honour his obligations to the international community and we shall then honour our obligations to Iraq. .  Mr President, I will start by saying that the Television without Frontiers Directive is one of the successes of the European Union and has undoubtedly helped European television. However, we also have to recognise that the television industry in Europe at the present time is not without difficulties. I am thinking of issues like restricted advertising revenues, and a significant number of companies are currently facing financial difficulties. The industry today is greatly different from 1997, when the Directive was last revised, and barely recognisable from the TV industry of 1989, when the Directive was adopted. In 1989 there were just 47 television channels in the whole of Europe. Today that figure is 2000. TV is an important industry, with turnover estimated at EUR 62 billion per annum. The role of the EU must be to help encourage the industry and in no sense to restrict it. TV is now facing important technological changes: there is more satellite TV, digital TV, convergence with the Internet and new advertising techniques, such as split-screen advertising. The directive, however, is beginning to creak, and revision cannot be put off indefinitely. Indeed, a thorough review is becoming urgent. I appreciate the Commission's careful approach and congratulate the Commissioner on her careful and extensive consultation. However, we need to take care: too long a delay in revising the directive will impede progress in the industry. We should not move away from the fundamental principles of the present directive which relies largely on self-regulation and is not too prescriptive. We should no more seek to control what people watch than we would seek to control what books they might wish to buy in a bookshop. Therefore, I am clear that overzealous use of quotas and too detailed definitions would be wrong. Above all, we should only seek to regulate and influence at a European level that which is of transeuropean concern. However, there are European issues we need to address. For instance, events of major importance need to remain free to air, and there is a case for a short European list of such events. There was a real risk that last year's World Cup would not be freely available in all our countries. I am as keen as any colleague to encourage European content in television, although primarily that could be helped by the 'MEDIA Plus' Programme. I also urge the Commission to look at ways to ensure that channels like Euronews and Arte flourish and develop. They help create a European television identity and help our citizens to appreciate and understand the European dimension in their lives. Euronews in particular is a very effective means of allowing European and world citizens to get a European perspective on current affairs, rather than an exclusively national or American view. I would also urge the Commission to find means to protect the diversity of ownership of television and to guard against undue concentration of ownership. Plurality of media ownership is important for democracy. In this report I touch on two particular issues which may be seen as minor but are important. First, the needs of viewers with sensory impairments: these fellow citizens wish, and have the right, to enjoy television. I hope the Commission will conduct the study called for as soon as possible to enable us to get best practice for subtitling, sign language and audio description in television broadcasts. Finally, I want to raise the issue of those European citizens – often retirees but not only – who move to a place in the sun. Spain, Greece, Portugal, Italy and France are indeed wonderful and hospitable countries, but for those people from the north of Europe it is nice to watch television programmes from their own country and even to watch their own country play in a football match. Many people do this by skirting around the law by watching via satellite broadcasters from their own country. They often ignore the terms of their contracts or even use pirate technology. Perhaps that is not a big problem, but, as sensible legislators, we ought to be able to frame sensible laws that allow citizens to lead their lives within the law and not in a grey market. Therefore, I thank the Commissioner for her commitment to Europe's television. I urge her to heed this report and to come forward as soon as possible with practical proposals to revise the directive. – Mr President, I welcomed the Minister's reply but I would like him to give an assurance to this House that he and the Council will not lose sight in their consideration of this problem of the 604 Kuwaiti citizens who disappeared as a result of the illegal occupation of Kuwait by Iraq and that they will keep pressing the Iraqi authorities for an explanation of the fate of these people. – Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Bolkestein for his reply. I recognise that he has reiterated what he said in a very full statement to the Committee on Petitions. He informed the Petitions Committee back in July that the Commission would be ready at the end of the summer to give its response. When I look outside the Chamber today, with the pouring rain, I think we are very close to the end of the summer. I guess I am not going to get any clearer statement other than "as quickly as possible". Could I perhaps also ask Mr Bolkestein whether he is aware of the failure of Independent Insurance in the United Kingdom over recent months and the appointment by the British Government of an inquiry into the Equitable Life insurance company? Are his services looking at both of those insurance undertakings to satisfy themselves that in those respects the British Government has been properly applying European insurance directives? – Mr President, like Mr Andrews I speak this afternoon as one who regards himself as a friend of the Arab and Islamic world. This resolution can only be supported if recital A and paragraph 1 are regarded as being at its absolute core. We are saying that any relaxation of sanctions must depend upon Iraq respecting United Nations resolutions. In particular we must ask Iraq to cooperate with the International Committee of the Red Cross on tracing the 604 Kuwaiti citizens who disappeared as a result of the illegal Iraqi occupation of Kuwait. If there is to be any EU visit to Iraq it must include a visit to those families in Kuwait who are still waiting to know ten years later what happened to their loved ones. Any weaker position on the part of the EU will not help the people of Iraq, but will condemn them to perpetual tyranny. – Mr President, in response to the comments by Mr Titley, I would like to say that I raised the issue of the 30th anniversary of Britain, Ireland and Denmark's membership of the European Union at the last part-session in December and asked our President, Mr Cox, what was going to be done to mark this. I am delighted to say that Mr Cox is hosting a reception tomorrow evening for Members of Parliament and I hope that Mr Titley, among his other invitations for this week, will find the opportunity to attend that reception being offered by the President. I certainly intend to be there myself. – Mr President, as you suggested this may seem something of an obscure and even idiosyncratic issue to reach the floor of the European Parliament. For the Reverend Owen, however, it is anything but obscure. It is his livelihood, his home and I suspect even more than that, it is his belief that right will be done, that justice will prevail. It would seem that the legal system cannot defend him, although he has done no wrong. Increasingly, I fear that appeals to a moral principle do not work, although one might have hoped that within the Church of England, and I am myself a communicant member of that church, such an appeal might get some countenance. I am afraid that once the lawyers of the consistory courts don their wigs and gowns it is the letter of the law that will prevail, rather than moral justice and still less Christian spirit. I hope the publicity of this case is making the bishops of the Church of England feel just a little ashamed. If the Church cannot set an example of Christian charity, understanding and fair treatment towards its servants, who can? The Church should not be surprised if its pews are increasingly empty. It is a clear tribute to the democratic procedures of this House, and to the work of the Petitions Committee, that the Reverend Owen has at last found one public body which is at least ready to listen, one that does not require expensive lawyers. I trust that His Grace, the new Archbishop of Canterbury will carefully consider this small and obscure case and show that the Church has not totally lost its belief in Christian charity, and might accord to his rector the rights that other European citizens enjoy as employees. – Mr President, the PPE-DE Group is in full agreement with the rapporteur, Mr Andreasen, on what we regard as an excellent report. The communication from the Commission calls for cooperation, and that is the key word: there has to be cooperation in communication. We will be proposing a very slight amendment suggesting that the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee should be allowed to sit as observers on the proposed institutional group. We all know the present dire state of citizens' knowledge about the organisation and policies of the EU. Eurobarometer showed that only 6% of EU citizens thought they knew a lot about the EU. 83% said that they know a little, or even very little. This influences the low and declining turnout in European Parliament elections – down to 49% at the last election. That is a problem for democracies all over the world, and not least the United States of America, but it is a real problem for the EU as well. When the people of Ireland rejected the Treaty of Nice in the recent referendum, the most telling slogan was: "If you don't know, vote no". That was precisely what the people did. I would be the first to admit that my own country, the United Kingdom, is probably one of the worst examples. According to Eurobarometer again, we are bottom of the list in terms of knowledge, but not surprisingly top of the list in having reservations and objections to the EU. Mr Andreasen is absolutely right to say that the EU must concentrate on factual information. Diverse and balanced information must be free of propaganda; but the people of all countries are crying out for information and explanation of what the EU is doing. According to Eurobarometer 66%, that is two out of every three European citizens, want more information. That has to be within proper cost constraints but again, as has already been said, at present we are spending just 25 cents per annum – for English ears, that is 15 pence per citizen per year. Citizens will also judge us more by what we do than what we say. This report calls on the Council of Ministers to be more open in its decision process. Its secrecy does a profound disservice to Europe. We in Parliament need to ask ourselves whether we are getting value for money. We are always delighted to see visitors in this Parliament, but 43% of our budget goes on the Visitors Service. Are we really getting value for money? We certainly need to target the media and information formers. We need to be more positive about Euronews. We should also not neglect radio as a good way of getting information. IT is properly addressed in the report. All I would say is that the EU has created a stable and prosperous continent. Half of Europe is queuing up to join the EU and yet 48% of present citizens wonder whether it is a good thing. This report is not before time. It must not be allowed to gather dust. Mr President, at last night's meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, the chairman, Mr Gargani, and the committee agreed that they wished to stand by the substance of the committee's recommendation to you of 15 April that action should be taken against the Commission for failure to act as regards answering the questions concerning Lloyd's. – Madam President, in the absence of our chairman, as vice-chairman of the Committee on Petitions I would point out that our committee requested the report from STOA on the possible toxic effects of Sellafield in the Irish Sea and Cap de la Hague in the English Channel. The Petitions Committee is as anxious as anybody that this report should be published as soon as possible. It is important that the report, when adopted by STOA, is seen to be absolutely objective and scientifically independent. That is why it has been subjected to independent assessment. When we have considered that assessment I believe all Members of this House would want the report to be published. But that should not be done whilst doubts remain – and unfortunately there are doubts – about the objectivity of the report as currently presented to the STOA panel. *** – I am grateful to you for allowing this question to be taken. I hear with interest what the Commissioner has to say, but she will know very well that there is no comfort in that response for many lecturers in the United Kingdom who assumed that they were going to be guaranteed the rights they had in their previous employment. They thought that under the Acquired Rights Directive they had some hope of protection of their rights. The result has been that those who chose to use those rights have seen ten years of pay freeze, ten years of a freeze on any chance of career promotion, and removal of pension rights. Will the Commissioner say this afternoon whether she thinks they are right in concluding that the acquired rights directive – which they thought would give them protection – has been a totally worthless piece of European legislation? Mr President, like a number of Members in the chamber this morning I come from rip-off Britain. We are more or less the only oil producers in the European Union and yet we face the highest petrol prices, the highest diesel prices of any country in Europe – GBP 1.20 a litre for diesel is paid in the United Kingdom. Vehicle excise duties are eight times the French level in the UK, so one should not be too surprised that in Britain there is a great deal of concern. As a British driver, when I go on French motorways I must pay French tolls. I might say that by the time I have arrived at Calais, having driven from Strasbourg, I feel I own the French motorway system, so expensive are those tolls. I drove in Austria in the summer and paid the Austrian vignette which seemed to me to be perfectly fair and reasonable and a much more agreeable price than one pays on French motorways. My objection to this proposal is not that it is unfair. At long last the British government has come up with a reasonable solution. We in my party proposed it two years ago. The present British government has allowed the situation to get out of hand and it is rather late in the day for them to come up with this proposal which will probably take another two years to come into effect. If they do bring it into effect, we want to see them really pass the benefits on to the British road-users. . – This is an important debate, and I want to endorse the ideas coming out of the two reports, particularly those of Mrs Zabell on doping and also Mrs Lynne's remarks about the presumption of innocence, because that is important. We all recognise nowadays that sport is big business. This is particularly clear in football with its enormous transfer fees, often ridiculously high salary levels, and stock market deals, but it is not just football. Other sports have a lot of money sloshing around. Formula 1 is a good example. In, the UK they even had a million pounds to spare for the Labour Party. Sport has a lot of money and it cannot expect to be exempt from free market rules. I do, however, disagree with the reports when they call for a Treaty clause on sport. Jacques Santer was absolutely right when he said Europe must do less but do it better. So let us try to operate within our means. Let us try to operate within the powers that we already have. What is needed regarding transfer fees is a healthy dose of pragmatism and common sense. I endorse the Commissioner's remarks this morning. I have absolute confidence in her abilities and attitude and wish her well in her forthcoming discussions. I would, however, say that there is no rush. FIFA has certainly been very slow to act and should be criticised for that, but the Commissioner must also be prepared to listen to the small clubs, the players' organisations, and spectators. Let us work for a good solution that we can defend rather than working for a solution this afternoon, or this week, or this month. It is something that needs to be sorted out so that the people of Europe will understand. Europe needs friends, not enemies. Let us not add football spectators to those people who do not understand what Europe is about. Come up with a good solution and you will have the backing of this House and the backing of football supporters across Europe. – Mr President, I listened with interest to the Commissioner's reply about the need to apply the laws of the single market. I wonder whether he can say whether he considers his reply to be compatible with the failure by the Commission to take the French Government to the European Court of Justice on the application of France's Loi et Vin, which effectively prevents single market rules applying to the sale of alcohol products in France? Can we now expect the European Commission to take action against the French Republic before the European Court of Justice? – Mr President, I was hoping to be able to congratulate Commissioner Bolkestein on a normally forthright reply, but I listened to that reply and I wonder what I have heard. "The Commission is reviewing it." I am asking the Commission, are they going to do anything about it? We have a situation where we believe in the Single Market, where citizens move now in increasing numbers around the continent. They would like to be able to watch French television in Germany; they would like to be able to watch British television if they retire to Spain. The reality is that the Single Market is not working. I would like to have just a glimmer of a more positive statement from the Commissioner that not only is he going to review this problem, but he is actually going to do something about it and make a positive proposal to the Parliament. – I had the opportunity to visit the Sudan earlier this year, as did Mr Corrie, though not at the same time, and he led an official delegation. I am grateful to the Commissioner for his balanced response. It seems to me that what is needed here in Europe is an appreciation of the facts of the situation – what is actually happening. Many allegations have been made. The Sudanese Government denies them. We want to get at the truth. I would like to hear whether the Commission is going to make any effort, or is making any effort, to try to establish whether or not there is a scorched earth policy. The Commission representative in Khartoum said to me that our aid to the Sudan is severely limited because of political constraints. If only we could start to get more aid into that country we might do more to end the civil war there and actually get greater respect for human rights across the whole of that country. That should be the ambition of us all. – Mr President, if I heard the Commissioner correctly he said the possibility of guidelines 'could' be considered. Did I mishear that? The House needs to know whether they 'will' be considered. – Mr President, I am very glad that you are being very tolerant on time this morning. It is a well-known saying that ‘if you don't know where you're going, then you won't get there’. First and foremost we need to be very clear in Europe about what we are doing; our aim is not to create a single State of Europe, but to have a union of sovereign States that are cooperating when and where necessary. Unlike Mr Farage, I believe there are many occasions when it is important that we cooperate in Europe. Equally we all know that the none of the institutions are held in high regard. That is not because they are bad. It is because they are complex, remote and not understood. Frankly, we will continue to face the same problem, whatever specific reforms we come up with, if they remain obscure, complex and unexplained. I say to my colleagues in this Chamber that one thing the people of Europe do not understand is why we oscillate between Brussels and Strasbourg. It is up to us to listen to some of the problems that people express to us. I was disappointed in President Prodi's White Paper. He virtually neglected the role of the ombudsman. After all, the ombudsman is in the front line of dealing with the complaints and concerns of citizens. I was also disappointed last month by the response of Commissioner de Palacio, whom I normally respect, who was quite dismissive about the code of good administrative behaviour. We must make sure that we have good administration. That means that we must have an enforceable code common to all of the institutions. The Committee on Petitions has asked the Ombudsman to report to us on the problems that citizens are presenting to him. We want to listen to citizens. I extend an invitation to President Prodi, if he really wants to understand what the citizens of Europe are finding difficult with the European institutions, European rules and regulations, to give up one afternoon and come along to the Petitions Committee to listen to what citizens are saying. He would certainly have an afternoon's entertainment hearing what people really think. In brief, what I am saying is this: listen to people; listen to those who know what they are talking about; be clear about your objectives; and then explain yourselves in clear and simple language. Mr President, I appreciate very much that the Commissioner is tiptoeing through a minefield, walking on egg shells and is certainly trying to do her best to see that we rescue something from the first-class programmes we have organised over many years. We all know in this Chamber and in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport that the work of the European Union must be carried out not only inside the institutions but also by people outside. Fortunately, there are many worthy, hardworking organisations doing a great deal to promote European Union and cooperation. In particular, the European Councils, the European Youth Orchestra, the European Youth Parliament and the Model Youth Parliament. These organisations have been backed and supported by the European Union and the Parliament over many years by grants voted by Parliament. It just seems incredible that in the year of enlargement and of the adoption of a new Constitution  not to mention the European elections  we should even be thinking about reducing or dropping funding for these emblematic institutions. I would say to Mrs Dührkhop that we can always find ways of spending money on bureaucracies, jurors, and administrative procedures. We need to find a way of getting the money to the people who are actually going to do some good with it. To organise an orchestra which draws its players from the top conservatories across Europe requires a great deal of organisation and forward planning. How can you book concert halls if you do not know that you are going to have the money? Some of these procedures are simply going to cancel that effort altogether. If the European Union cannot organise itself to give assistance, or simply will not, why should any other organisation be thinking of doing so? As for the policy of digressivity, I normally agree with Mrs Sanders-ten Holte, but digressivity simply shows the lack of vision of the people who dreamt up that policy - a total lack of vision, in stark contrast to the vision of the founding fathers of Europe. .  Madam President, I would like to place on record my appreciation to the general rapporteur, Mr Mulder, for his attention to our concerns. This committee takes less than 1% of the EU budget, but I would not want anyone to think that we should see education, culture, media and information as optional extras. The creative industries in Europe contribute some 12% to Europe's GDP. There are two points I would particularly like the Commission to heed. Firstly, in its culture budget each year, Parliament helps a number of cultural organisations and networks such as the European Youth Orchestra and the Yehudi Menuhin Foundation. If these organisations are to survive, let alone flourish, then they not only need our financial and moral support, they need legal certainty. I am appalled that at the end of September, there is still no guarantee they will get their money for 2004 and sadly, as usual, some have not yet been paid for 2003. I urge the Commission to resolve this legal base problem. Secondly, if EU citizens are to know about the EU they require information. 25% of Britons do not know their country is in the EU. 31% of Germans have never heard of the European Commission and 90% of Spaniards do not know what the European Convention is! The public learn about Europe through television. We have Euronews, an excellent independent channel, but like all public sector broadcasters, it needs funding. This year Parliament voted EUR 3 million for Euronews. As far as I am aware, that money has not yet been paid. We have proposed in our budget suggestion for next year that it should receive EUR 5 million. I am afraid that we could enter the year of enlargement - the year of European elections - with no European Youth Orchestra and no European television. I hope the Commission will take these points seriously. – Madam President, I wish to raise a point of order under Rule 179 dealing with relations with the Ombudsman. On 29 July this year the Ombudsman wrote to this Parliament on an own-initiative inquiry on his part calling for a code of good administrative behaviour and asking for a response by 30 November. Up to yesterday, he had not had a reply. I understand that you have today written to the Ombudsman but I wish to know when the Members of this Parliament are going to have the opportunity to respond to the Ombudsman’s request for comments in his own-initiative inquiry. – Mr President, I add my congratulations to Mrs Maij-Weggen for an excellent report. It is quite clear that Parliament must get its own house in order after the agreements we have had vis-à-vis the Commission. Access is important but too much lip service is paid to access. I thought that at the beginning Mr Corbett was being rather congratulatory. I agree with him that we are moving in the right direction, but we still have a long way to go. I want to bring to Parliament's attention the specific problem that the Committee on Petitions is still experiencing with access to documentation. I know the problem here is largely the Commission, but it impacts on Parliament. A number of European citizens have petitioned this Parliament about problems with Lloyds of London. A very detailed questionnaire was sent to the British Government. Only Members of the Petitions Committee have been allowed to see that questionnaire; no other Members of Parliament. Even Members of the Petitions Committee, behind closed doors, are not allowed to have any legal advisers, or political advisers, and are not allowed to take copies. Nobody in Parliament has been allowed to see the reply from the British Government. Mr Bolkestein said that he cannot reveal this information because it could be subject to legal action by the Commission against the British Government. The British Government reply was that they would not let us see it because they regard it as an informal communication at the request of the Petitions Committee by the Commission. Twenty-one detailed questions to the British Government and the British Government says that it is an informal communication! We want some clarity here, so that we know precisely what we do and do not have access to. At present, Members, committees and Parliament itself cannot do their jobs properly because of excessive secrecy. I would certainly urge that a representative – the chairman of the Petitions Committee – should be on the Interinstitutional Committee so that citizens know that the Members of this Parliament who look after their interests ensure that this secrecy does not go any deeper than it does at present. . – Mr President, culture is certainly not a high priority for Parliament or the Commission. We are very fortunate to get something like half of 1% of the budget and I only get one minute to present our concerns. It is tremendously important that the very little amount of money we have should be spent efficiently and effectively. Fortunately we tend not to suffer from the allegations of fraud and mismanagement that one sees elsewhere but we do have a problem about the very worthy organisations that want support from Parliament actually receiving the money. Just to give three examples for the 1999 financial year we are looking at: the European Youth Orchestra, the European Youth Parliament, the Yehudi Menuhin Foundation only received their grant from the European Commission in the last days of the year. This causes real problems for those organisations. We accepted it for 1999, but I hope it will not recur in the year 2000. I would say to the Commissioner: please ensure that if we are going to give money, we do it efficiently and effectively so that it does good rather than damage to the European cause. – Mr President, this week we have been debating very many important issues: the enlargement of the Union, the future governance of the Union and anti-terrorism measures amongst others. I do not want anybody to think that the issues addressed in the joint debate this morning are not themselves of the utmost importance. The European Union is a great ideal. The institutions are undoubtedly worthy and officials of the institutions seek to discharge their functions responsibly. As the Ombudsman himself said this morning, unfortunately the institutions of Europe do not enjoy the highest reputation amongst our citizens. It is critical, therefore, that every step is taken to ensure the quality of the administration of European affairs by the EU institutions. In Parliament we have the Petitions Committee and the Officer of the Ombudsman to oversee allegations of maladministration. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work of Herbert Bösch in his report on the Ombudsman, my colleague on the later report, Felipe Camisón on the work of the Petitions Committee and Mrs Almeida Garrett on her work on the Statute of the Ombudsman. We need a new framework agreement so that the Member States also pay more serious attention to their obligations under the EU Treaties. We should also place on record our appreciation to the Ombudsman and to his staff for the calm and efficient way in which they discharge their functions. It cannot be easy to be the complaints department of Europe. It requires special skills and Mr Söderman has shown us that he has those in abundance. To turn to my own report proposing a code of good administrative behaviour, this has been a long time in the gestation and in the last Parliament there were reports from myself and from Mrs de Esteban proposing a code of good administrative behaviour. I am grateful to rapporteurs from the Citizens' Rights Committee and the Legal Affairs Committee, in particular Mr Dehousse, who have pointed to a procedural route that could, and will I hope, enable us to get this code. There are two central principles if the code is to be fully effective. One, it must be based in law. Good administration is a right, not a privilege and the code must be uniform for all the institutions. Citizens need to know where they stand and precisely what their rights are in dealing with the institutions. The right to good administration is enshrined in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. But without this code, the charter would just be a form of words. This code is to put flesh on the Charter of Fundamental Rights. It is a concept that is contained within similar laws in most of the Member States. Spain, is just one example. Its 1992 administrative law requires that citizens be treated with respect and cooperation by the authorities. Germany and its unfair practice law dating from 1909 enforces good practice upon its officials. The European Union must now follow suit with its own code of good administrative behaviour. I appreciate that the Commission in particular, but also the other institutions, have adopted and are applying their own voluntary codes. They are good as far as they go, but they do not go far enough, and they have to be obligatory rather than voluntary. There are, however, some differences between the proposed code as now drafted by the Ombudsman, which I hope that this House will support, and the codes currently in use. I would refer just to one of them and that is the requirement that when an error has been made the official concerned has to apologise to the citizen who has suffered as a result. A readiness to apologise never comes amiss, so I particularly support that particular clause in the draft. In conclusion, British Members like me are often against written constitutions. They are alien to our tradition. They seem to us very often to concentrate on giving power to those in authority and ignoring the rights of the citizen. But from the Magna Carta 1215 to our citizens' charter of the 1990s, we in Britain have welcomed codes that set out citizens' rights. I hope that fellow Europeans will see this as a contribution to the good governance of Europe that even British Members can support. – Mr President, this report is strongly supported by the PPE-DE Group. Indeed, we have supported it throughout the entire procedure. We regretted that initially there was some slight resistance from the Council but we are very pleased that, as a result of strong intervention by the Commissioner and the negotiating skills of the rapporteur, a compromise was reached last autumn that we can certainly support. We congratulate the Commissioner and the rapporteur on their work to achieve that. We certainly all agree here in this Chamber that education is of vital importance and that an educated workforce is the cornerstone of Europe's future prosperity. Therefore, any attempts to improve standards in our schools must be welcomed with open arms. We also all agree that education is rightly a matter for the individual Member States and the regions. But there is room for the Commission to coordinate and improve evaluation systems as provided for in the Treaty and I was glad to see that the Commission was careful to emphasise that this is to be based on voluntary cooperation between the Member States. Certainly, at the moment it is difficult to get past each country's various examination systems and teaching philosophies to reach any objective comparison of the teaching standards of the countries. As a former lecturer myself, I would have welcomed a clear idea of how British teaching and educational standards compared to those of other European countries. It is important in this global age to have as broad an input as possible for the evaluation system. European comparisons will show up, one hopes, strengths but also weaknesses that are currently hidden by evaluation systems limited to a single educational system. One of the main aims of education is to provide for the world of work as well as providing a cultural base for Europe's young people. This report seeks a balance between the need for adequate preparation in both those fields. The possibility of comparing education systems across borders will, I hope, lead to improvements across European teaching establishments as schools learn from others outside their immediate view. The point made by Mrs Sanders-ten Holte about social exclusion is particularly valid. I would like to see whether there are differences in the pattern of the school day, whether this varies in different parts of Europe, and whether this offers ways of improving education. Then there is the use of compulsory sports activities: does this help in the educational system of different countries? Do different countries have different patterns? We would all be interested to know how the educational systems achieve competence in two modern languages in addition to the mother tongue. I suspect my own country will not do so well there but perhaps we would do better on the use of information technology. Finally, I would just like to say that the rapporteur's amendments calling for greater self-evaluation and participation of stakeholders inserts a valuable cog in the evaluation machine. The opinion of those within the educational system is often lost within the large civil service machines and bureaucracies which run schools. We must find ways which give power back to the schools and to the parents and to the students because that is where responsibility should lie. – Mr President, a key role of this Parliament is to put the spotlight of parliamentary scrutiny on the dim recesses of the Commission and the even dimmer nooks and crannies of the Council of Ministers. Our credentials for doing so will be immeasurably enhanced if our own house is in order, and I therefore congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Maij-Weggen, on her very open approach to this issue. We must ourselves be as open as possible. I would like to draw attention to two particular issues from my perspective as vice-chairman of the Committee on Petitions. I support the report when it says that petitions should only be made publicly available with the consent of the petitioners. For most petitioners that is no problem, since they want as much publicity as possible, but there are occasions when they need confidentiality. For instance, if I may cite the Lloyds of London petitions, one of the so-called Names was told that if he complained to Parliament or the Commission, then any financial compensation being paid to him by Lloyds could be withdrawn – a very serious threat indeed. I cite that as an example in the public domain, but there are others. That we have to push for more transparency with other institutions remains clear. Again to quote the example of the Lloyds petitions, the Commission last December announced that it was considering infringement proceedings against the British Government. The British Government responded to the Commission's letter of intent on 30 April, the very last day available, but still the Commission and the British Government refused to allow Parliament or the petitioners to know their response. I condemn that secrecy on the part of the British Government and the Commission, and I want them to be absolutely transparent, which is why we must shame them into transparency by being open ourselves. – Mr President, I also rise on a point of order. Are there any rules or regulations that govern demonstrations within the building of this Parliament, outside the doors of the Hemicycle, to ensure that MEPs are free to come into this Hemicycle to discharge their mandate? If there are such rules, who has the responsibility for enforcing them and what are they doing to discharge that responsibility? – Madam President, I would like to endorse the point made by Mrs Lynne. Today is Human Rights Day and yet there are 12 European citizens in prison in Greece without trial. Members opposite have been raising the issue of the European arrest warrant – this incident shows precisely why Members on this side of the House have concerns about a European arrest warrant. British citizens engaged in the harmless pursuit of plane-spotting find themselves in prison in Greece without trial. I really look forward to seeing the reply you have received, which you described as unsatisfactory, and hope you will respond in very robust terms to the Greek Government. They must not be allowed to keep European citizens in prison without trial. Mr President, on a point of order, I want to report to Parliament that at the September part-session this Parliament passed a report on the Lloyd's petitions, setting a deadline of 15 November for the Commission to provide information to Parliament about its regulation of Lloyd's of London between 1978 and 2001. I have to report that by 15 November no such communication had been received from the Commission. As rapporteur, I still am not aware of anything having been received by Parliament, although I am assured by Mr Bolkestein's services that his letter is in the post. I hope that will be received in due course, but the deadline was not respected. I shall raise this matter in writing, but I just wanted to put it on record. *** .– The European Parliament has been asked to give its assent to this agreement between the European Union and the United States of America in the field of higher education and vocational education and training. As rapporteur for the European Parliament I gave my support to this agreement as cooperation of this kind is essential in today's global society. I believe that there is a great deal to be gained on both sides with this agreement. European skills in business and technology can be enhanced both by learning from American teachers and with American students. The same model could be reversed to help improve American knowledge of language teaching methods and working in multi-cultural contexts. This is borne out by the agreement itself, which was inspired in the United States by their observation and admiration of the ERASMUS programme. I am sure that the European Parliament would welcome a greater involvement in the discussions for this agreement, and hope that MEPs are consulted at an earlier stage of the proceedings than for this set of negotiations. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport was notified of the agreement only a few weeks before the negotiations with the American authorities. The agreement is to receive EUR 8.6 million for its five-year duration. I would propose that research be carried out from next year into how private funding can be used to supplement this figure. Discussions with the Commission and the American authorities have shown enthusiasm for the idea, and I hope it is one that the European Parliament, European Commission and US Administration can cooperate on. As I set out in my explanatory statement, the programme would also benefit from being given a name that would help raise its profile among students, universities and the general public. Part of the reasoning behind the programme is to serve as a symbol of cross-Atlantic cooperation, and so it needs to be as widely known as possible. In this, too, I have received positive feedback from the other concerned parties, and I trust that it is one that can be discussed in greater length in time for the next agreement in 2005. I personally think we should consider the following names of statesmen associated with US-European relations: Churchill, Eisenhower or Lafayette, any of whom in my opinion would be an appropriate name for this programme. . – Mr President, in previous years’ debates I spoke for the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, where we heard from Mrs Iivari this afternoon. Very little money indeed is spent. I totally support the remarks made by Mrs Iivari which draw attention to that problem. I speak this year for the Committee on Petitions, where we spend even less money, indeed hardly any money at all. Maybe that is as it should be. Certainly as the budget rapporteur I commend the good relations we have had with Mr Ferber. In speaking this afternoon I commend to the House those budget lines that are dedicated to the work of the Petitions Committee and the European Ombudsman. A prime responsibility of any elected parliament is to protect the interests of the individual citizens against the executive. In our case we have to ensure not only that the Commission respects European policy but that the Member States do so as well and fulfil their Treaty obligations. They are not always ready to do so. There are no better guardians of the Treaties than the European citizens. An important way that the citizens can ensure that their concerns are addressed is by appealing either to the Ombudsman or petitioning Parliament. It is a cheap process for us; for the citizen it is free. Compare that to redress through the courts of law. I urge the House to see that the Ombudsman has adequate staff to do his job properly and the Petitions Committee has adequate tools to do its job properly. In particular, this year we have asked – and I believe we will have the support of the House – to ensure that there is adequate money to see that we have a proper interactive database so that Members, staff and citizens can address their concerns and see how they are progressing through Parliament. There has already been good progress. At the moment it is just the citizens who cannot access the database. I hope they will very quickly have that possibility. I should like to draw attention to the fact that the issue we are petitioned on is the question of fraud and mismanagement of money in the European Union. We need to be aware of that. But I would like to say to Parliament this afternoon that we should not lose sight of the fact that the EU spends just 1% of GDP and much of that is administered in the Member States. If we are looking for waste and fraud, it is not just found within the European Union. Over the last few weeks in Britain alone I have monitored what the press has been saying about cases of fraud, waste and mismanagement in Britain: social security fraud – GBP 4.5 billion; serious fraud offices investigating 81 cases covering GBP 1.4 billion; housing benefit fraud – GBP 185 million; giro cheque fraud – GBP 240 million. In just one month I have found those cases. Only last weekend we learned that General Abacha of Nigeria laundered GBP 4.5 billion through the banks in London without the proper authorities knowing about it. So certainly we must make sure that we have our affairs in order in Europe but anybody reporting these issues should never forget that it is not just the European Union that needs to address those issues seriously. . – Mr President, first of all I support the overall budget. It operates within the financial perspective. We have no more important obligation than to live within our means. I speak on what is probably the smallest line in the budget: EUR 2.9 million for the Ombudsman. That is a very small sum of money. It constitutes less than one cent per inhabitant of the European Union. Let us regard it as the "citizen's cent". We have to make sure that we listen to the citizens and if they have complaints, that there are procedures to redress them. That expenditure is well-spent. The Committee on Petitions very much hopes that its budget will now provide for a proper database so that citizens who are interested in pursuing their petitions will be able to see what progress is being made. We hope that will be achieved. Finally, information is an important concern for this Parliament. We must see that we keep our information programmes. In particular I would cite Euronews so that people can see in the media what Parliament and the Union are doing. . – Mr President, I apologise to the rapporteurs that I was not able to be here at the beginning of the debate, but I would wager a euro that nobody has yet touched on the subject that I will raise on behalf of the Committee on Petitions. Deep in the Buitenweg report is Amendment No 2022 on Budget Line 250 and this makes a new proposal to allow in certain circumstances, individual expenses to be paid to particular petitioners if they feel it appropriate to come to Parliament to put their case. I want to thank the rapporteur for accepting this report and the committee for passing it. Parliaments, you know, have various responsibilities. They decide who is to be the government, of course, that is not a responsibility of this Parliament. They decide budgets, but you know, we have only partial budgetary powers. We have no powers over taxation, we have no powers over 50% of the expenditure more or less devoted to agriculture. Parliaments decide legislation: that is a power we have to share with the Council of Ministers and we have no powers of legislative initiative. But parliaments also have a responsibility to protect the rights of the individual citizens in dealing with the bureaucracy and that is a responsibility that we discharge in this Parliament through the work of the Committee on Petitions and the work of the Ombudsman. I would say to Parliament this afternoon that the money spent on petitions and the EUR 3 million that we make available to the Office of the Ombudsman is money that is extremely well spent. It works out at less than EUR 0.1 per person per annum, so it cannot be said to be a great deal of money, but it is money that is being spent on real European democracy and we want to ensure that we keep that up and that we see that we do more in future years. – Mr President, I want to add my congratulations to Mr Bayona de Perogordo and to thank Commissioner Vitorino for the attention they are drawing to the need for information. Are we mad to be here at this time of night debating this issue? Really, it is the people who are not here who need to understand the importance of explaining what the European Union does. We have to get that message over. If we cannot do that, we must not be too surprised if the citizens of Europe are rather apathetic about it. Many colleagues have mentioned the low turnout at the last European elections – 49% overall, 24% in my country. That is a total disgrace, about which we should hang our heads in shame. The only consolation I have is that the turnout in the last American presidential elections was only 50%. So those of us who believe in democracy have a problem. The solution to that problem is explaining what we do, and that is information policy. I asked to speak at this ridiculous hour of the night in order to make three simple points. I speak, not just as a Member of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which is interested in information, but also as a Member of the Committee on Petitions. We received a number of petitions from citizens who are not citizens of the national state in which they live. They are entitled to vote in European elections but they found that in the last elections they had all sorts of problems: a British citizen living in Germany said that there are 6 000 non-German nationals entitled to vote in their district, but that only 40 did so because they had inadequate information; a Dutch citizen made exactly the same point in a petition about the situation in France. I am not criticising Germany or France. I am simply saying that if we want people to vote we have to explain the procedures by which they may do so. There is a responsibility upon Member States. They should honour that responsibility and explain to everybody entitled to vote in European elections just how they could do so. The second point I want to make concerns Euronews. The way people get their information today is through television. There is one channel in Europe that provides European information and yet, I have to tell Parliament that this is a channel that is on the verge. It may succeed – and I hope that it does – and it may not. If people are going to be interested in Europe, they have to know about it. They learn about things through television, and we have to see that Euronews manages to succeed. It seems there is no-one here tonight from the Committee on Budgets, but they are the people who can help make sure that Euronews succeeds. Thirdly, the Committee on Petitions visited the Danish Parliament last year. The Danish Parliament said that it likes to provide information about Europe from the national parliament rather than from the European Parliament. If we can encourage the national parliaments and national authorities to give more information, then we have some hope. If we do it with a lot of stars, people will say it is only propaganda. So let us encourage the national parliaments to do the job as effectively as the Danes do. . – Mr President, I am sure across this House, and between Parliament, the Commission and the Council, we all agree education is important. President Kennedy said of America: "Our progress as a Union can be no swifter than our progress in education." If that was true for America then, it is certainly true for Europe now. I am sure we also all agree that education's prime responsibility lies with, and within, the Member States. We should not forget that prime responsibility for education rests with students and scholars themselves. We should also do our best to give as much autonomy as we can to schools and colleges. The question we have to address is: what can Europe do? What can we add to the educational business? The very existence of this debate shows that in the European Parliament, and indeed with the Commission and the Council, we have been pushing for more attention to be paid to the role of Europe in education. The prosperity of our Continent depends upon the level of education offered to our citizens. The other reports we are debating this evening deal with the present and the future. My report deals primarily with the past. Some of it is critical, but it is critical of what happened in the past rather than what is happening now. My report is: White Paper "Teaching and learning – Towards the learning society". That is a very impressive title, but I am not too sure that the report was that positive. After Lisbon and Stockholm, we are left in no doubt as to the importance Europe places on developing a knowledge economy. I am sure that with Commissioner Reding and her team future Commission activity in response to the increased priority for education agreed at the Lisbon and Stockholm Summits will be better than that detailed in my report. I am afraid that after reading the Commission Communication, I finished with not much more of an idea as to how far Europe had actually come towards the learning society, and which direction we wished to go. Sadly, I found the document vague, indicative of a lack of any real action over past years, although there were some notable exceptions. The main objectives which the Commission tried to attain in the implementation of its White Paper seemed laudable: developing employability and boosting knowledge potential. I am not quite sure what was meant by helping to build a people's Europe – that seemed to be a vogue phrase of a few years ago. Unfortunately, the Commission's report did not really detail any concrete progress made by the Commission in the five objectives set out. It was rather enthusiastic, but vague in terms of the impact of certain actions. What we and the public – and certainly we as the budgetary authority – want to know is how much was spent? How much of it was new money (as opposed to funds already in existing programmes)? What was the European added value? What results were achieved? And what lessons were learned for the future? I ask the Commission to ensure that we have that information so that in future we as the budgetary authority can press for more funding for this very important work. There are certainly many projects mentioned which are worthy of further exploration: the European credit transfer system, for instance. But as the debate we had earlier this evening shows us, 40 years on from the start of the EU, 15 years after the Single European Act, we cannot yet say there is mutual recognition of academic qualifications across Europe There are some things that can and should be done at a European level. Europe with its richness of linguistic diversity presents problems as well as strengths. I would say: let us be realistic, rather than too idealistic. Can we ask the Member States to insist that nobody goes into higher education, unless they have a qualification in a modern language other than their own? Because in some Member States that is not yet a requirement. We certainly need to do more work on IT, but that is being addressed in other reports. I will not deal with that. The single market requires a much more mobile workforce than we currently have. Mobility in Europe is less than half that of the United States. We must make our workforce more mobile, and that means more resources at a European level for careers advice and for work experience. I am quite sure that the careers services across Europe do not have enough resources to alert students to the opportunities in the single market of Europe. I would say, however, that it is not just the Commission that can do things. Let me suggest one way in which this Parliament could help. We support, of course, educational exchanges of Erasmus, Socrates and so on in the European Educational Institute in Florence, but not enough students get the opportunity to experience Europe. I have long thought that the EUR 100m we spend every year on the use of this building for one week a month is a terrible waste of resources. I suggest that we give some thought to turning this building into a European university. That would be good for the students of Europe, the City of Strasbourg, France, this Parliament and Europe. – Mr President, on a point of order, whilst welcoming the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union, I note that 1 January 2003 is the 30th anniversary of the accession of the United Kingdom, Ireland and Denmark, each of which has made a distinctive contribution to this Union. In Britain the 30th anniversary is regarded as the pearl anniversary. Some might regard Britain as the grit in the oyster that has created the pearl. What is being done on 1 January to mark the 30th anniversary of the accession of these three great countries? – Mr President, I should like to clarify whether this resolution is compatible with the resolution that we passed in January of this year, drawing attention to the problems of the prisoners of war who are still in Kuwait, or whether this resolution is to be taken as contradictory to our resolution of January of this year? – Madam President, if you want to find out what is really important for a person, do not ask them. Just ask to look through the stubs on their chequebook or the entries on their credit card account and you will find out. This afternoon we are actually looking through the stubs of the Commission's chequebook and what do we discover? EUR 2.4 billion spent on olives but EUR 240 million on the Socrates Education Programme for the European Union. As budget rapporteur for the Committee on Culture, I cannot but help notice that we spend one tenth of the money on education that we spend on olives. On information for enlargement, the Commission proposed EUR 14 million in the budget – a good sum you might think, until you see that the subsidy proposed for bee keeping was EUR 16.5 million. I am not criticising support for bee-keeping, but I think that this Parliament was right to increase the amount that the Commission wanted for information on enlargement from EUR 14 million to EUR 21 million. If people in the candidate countries and the existing countries do not understand enlargement, then we shall only have repeats of the problems that we experienced in Ireland. On that EUR 21 million, the Budgets Committee accepted the proposal from the Committee on Culture that EUR 1 million should be set aside for training future MEPs from the candidate countries. We had the President of Hungary here this morning, which shows that clearly politicians from the candidate countries are looking forward to joining this Parliament and they need training to be able to do that properly. I am also pleased that we have been able, if this budget is now passed, to reinstate the amount of money for -learning, namely EUR 17 million as opposed to the Commission's proposal of EUR 9 million. It is not just that our budgetary priorities are wrong, the system is also wrong. I will pay tribute to the support we have had from the budget rapporteur this year and from the Commission, but the Council is absent this afternoon. It has been absent from discussions with the committees looking at the proposed budget. It really should be ashamed of its position in this respect. – Mr President, I would like to thank Commissioner Reding for her response to Mr Andreasen. We have a very committed commissioner in Commissioner Reding. She has a really tough task on her hands but I am sure that she will get the full support that she recognises that she needs from the European Parliament. I find myself totally supportive of this motion in addressing the information deficit of the EU. The information deficit is actually more serious than the democratic deficit that we often talk about. In a sense, the information deficit and the democratic deficit are part of the same problem. In the recent past, we have had the Oostlander report in 1993 and the famous Pex report in 1998. They have analysed the problem, suggested improvements, but sadly little has been achieved. I wish Commissioner Reding well in getting on with this problem. This week I had a visitors' group from the Winchester Probus Club, mainly retired people and, in general terms, well informed about world affairs. However, you could write what they knew about the aims of the EU on the back of a one euro note. Before anyone tells me that euro notes do not exist, it would not make any difference: they could not write anything. When I speak to British groups, I often start with the question: do you want to be in the European Union? The immediate response I got this week was: "No". Five or six years ago, the response would have been: "Yes, but we do not want too much interference". This situation is getting worse. I know that it is a particular problem for the United Kingdom, but it is not exclusive to the United Kingdom. It is getting worse right across Europe. We only have to look at the turn-out in the European Parliamentary elections to see that. Why is this so? Why this lack of enthusiasm for the EU? To begin with, we must remember that the best advertising in the world will not sell a poor product. Even if you have a first-class product, if you do not market it properly it will not sell. We must make sure that the product is good first and then make sure that we advertise it effectively. I fear we are doing neither. There can be no doubt that, when history is written, the greatest achievement of the 20th century will be seen to be the creation of the EU. It has delivered peace and prosperity for half the continent for half the century. Now the other half of the continent is queuing up to get in, yet my constituents want to get out. I am not an expert in marketing; I know there are no simple solutions; I certainly know more propaganda leaflets are not the answer. Let me just suggest a few possibilities. What happened to President Prodi's idea of a rapid rebuttal unit? If it is in existence, it does not appear to be very effective. If they are giving answers, can I suggest that they e-mail their answers to the MEPs as well, so we can use the information, not just to the press, who often just spike it. The Commissioner said quite rightly that new technology is good. We must make more and better use of it. We must make sure that our website address is known. we could maybe spend some of the Socrates money giving every student in Europe a computer mouse mat so that they can see the website address of the European Parliament. With the plethora of new TV channels, with digital TV, have we got anywhere with a Parliamentary TV channel? I can watch the US Senate on television gavel-to-gavel. But not the European Parliament. We must emphasise the good-news stories of when we help the citizen. We have a Committee on Petitions that addresses a thousand petitions a year. When did the information departments of the Commission or Parliament last attend a meeting of that committee? When did they past publish any of the good news that comes from that committee? Finally, I have to address the problem of Parliament in Strasbourg. I am not anti-Strasbourg. I am certainly not anti-France. I understand that Strasbourg was the symbol of peace and unity of our continent, but that was a symbol of the 20th century. In the 21st century, I am afraid it is a symbol of waste and inefficiency. I ask Parliament, Commission and the Council of Ministers to address that problem. – Madam President, I also refer to the point of order that was raised about the nuclear submarine in Gibraltar. I would ask you and other Members to bear in mind, when considering this issue and when it comes for debate that, although Gibraltar is part of the European Union, the residents of Gibraltar do not themselves have direct representation in this Parliament. I would ask this House to give urgent consideration to the exclusion of those citizens and to secure their representation in this Parliament so they can bring their concerns to this House themselves. Mr President, I am sorry that it is Commissioner Kinnock who has to be here this afternoon to take this criticism on the chin, because I in no way regard him as personally responsible for the situation in which we find ourselves. I shall put some simple questions to which we all know the answers and on which we are all agreed. Is the average European citizen in need of extra information about the European Union? Yes. Is information needed in the Member States and locally rather than in Brussels? Yes. Do the Info-Points help meet that need? Yes. Is next year, with enlargement, with the new Constitution, with elections, a year when the information will be more necessary than usual? Yes. Has the Commission got its organisation and priorities right on information policy? That is questionable. Of course expenditure must meet legal requirements and if a legal base is necessary then it must be found. We employ lawyers precisely to check on those points in good time, advise if there is a problem and indicate a solution. We knew about the problem in January and the Commission's solution was to send the Info-Points a letter at the end of September. That really is not good enough. After all, the amount of expenditure is pretty minimal. It has been allocated over a good many years. If the Commission doubts the need for Info-Points and the more effective information programme, let me draw attention to statistics in recent polls. 90% of Spaniards have never heard of the Convention. 31% of Germans have never heard of the Commission and 25% of Britons do not even know that the United Kingdom is a member of the European Union  but 7% of them think that America is! The English language is rich in expressions. Let me try and find some that fit this situation. The tail is wagging the dog. The Commission appears to be unable to see the wood for the trees. Experts should be on tap, not on top. I could carry on with vulgar expressions about breweries and organising parties in them. There is not a major legal difficulty here, it is a technical problem. If the Commission had clear and accepted priorities and could see the wood for the trees, we would not be having this debate this afternoon. I welcome Commissioner Kinnock's statement, but he knows as well as we do that it has come far too late and it really should not have been necessary. Sadly, this is another own goal by the Commission. I hope that the letter that will be sent to the Info-Points will contain an apology. – Mr President, it was late when I made my last speech, it is even later now so I shall be try to be even briefer. But education is important and we must make sure it gets the attention it deserves. Often education attracts fine words. What it does not always get is the action to match those words. We all know the EU has very limited responsibilities as regards education, but there are some places where the European Union can give added value. Quality evaluation is one of those. When I went into town earlier on this evening I saw young people in the city of Strasbourg looking at leaflets up on a wall. What they were looking at were their baccalaureate results. So we think nothing about evaluating youngsters. What we need to do is evaluate the schools and to make sure that the schools are doing well. Since the schools are preparing young people for an education in the single market of Europe, we must make sure that the schools across Europe are all doing their work to prepare people for the single market those young people are going to work in. In some parts of the Union – and I am quite willing to cite the United Kingdom – we are not doing as well as we could. There are very many bright youngsters who do very well in the schools, but 20% of young people leave British schools without any qualifications at all. We cannot afford to allow that to continue to happen. There have been estimates that in the next two years we will require half a million extra people in IT jobs. Where are those young people going to come from? We have to make sure that the schools can deliver them and I am quite sure that what is contained in this report is one of the ways that we can help raise the standards in schools. In English we say “two heads are better than one”. I am quite prepared to believe that 15 heads, or 15 sets of data across the Union, will help us achieve better quality in the schools. I would just say to the Council – and I hope there is somebody from the Council listening to this – I know we can have confidence in the Commissioner, but let us say to the Council that their fine words at Lisbon were great but they should now deliver on them. I am therefore very sorry that the great efforts that the rapporteur made to get full agreement were not actually rewarded. So do not be too surprised if this Parliament backs the rapporteur and tries to push the Council to live up to the fine words they were so ready to utter. . –I wish particularly to explain why I voted against the ban on export of tobacco products above a certain tar/nicotine level from the EU and supported amendments that sought to lift that ban. Above all, I am concerned by the very real risk to jobs of over 1 000 people employed at the BAT factory in Southampton. There are over 5 000 jobs also at risk related to that factory. For instance, hundreds of printers in Portsmouth who produce cigarette packaging. Over 95% of the output of the Southampton plant is exported. I fear either the company will relocate, or the markets they serve will be met by other suppliers outside the EU. So this move will not lead to healthier cigarettes being smoked – but simply to export jobs from Europe. This is a sad day for the workers in Southampton who must now hope the British government might try to block the move. I fear they will hope in vain. I believe smokers should be given full information but then be free to make their own choice. Additionally, insisting on imposing our standards outside Europe is an example of post-colonial imperialism. So I voted for freedom – jobs. Mr President, I would like to add my congratulations to the rapporteur and most especially to the petitioner, Louise McVay, on her initiative and determination in getting this matter to the European Parliament. It takes resolve to get a matter on the floor of the European Parliament, and for someone suffering from the ravages of this disease, it shows outstanding strength of will. I am also pleased that it is the European Parliament's petitions procedure that has enabled that to happen. Allow me to tell a personal story. About ten years ago, my sister-in-law, married to my twin brother, invited me to their home for the weekend. She asked me to look at my twin brother. He did not appear to be standing quite correctly – something was wrong with his balance. She said that it was my job to convince him to go to a doctor. I did that job and the early stages of MS were first of all diagnosed. That subsequently was proven not to be the case: he had a related disease, called ataxia nervosa. Like MS, it attacks the mobility of the patient, not the thinking part of the brain at all. In two horrible years he was confined to a wheelchair and finally the disease killed him. In one respect he was very fortunate: he had a great employer. I will name them: Shell UK. They paid for treatment, a chauffeur to drive him to and from work and for a personal assistant to operate his computer and to push his wheelchair. They had the sense, the decency and the foresight and, I suppose, the resources to treat a disabled person as a real person. That is all that anybody asks and that is what this report asks. I have told this story for two reasons. Firstly, to remind all of us who are fit and active today that tomorrow we could find ourselves in a wheelchair. If that happens as a result of an accident, often compensation is paid. If it happens as a result of disease, there is no insurance or compensation and you are in the hands of society – people like you and me. Secondly, for some diseases there is no treatment – or it is only patchily available – and there is very limited research. Further research is needed and we must be prepared to encourage and support that research as requested in this report. Louise is right: if there is therapy that helps, for example beta interferons, then it must be made available to all sufferers. I am particularly grateful to the rapporteur for putting forward the oral amendments that would allow the pressure from this petition to be used to help not just the hundreds of thousands of sufferers from multiple sclerosis, but also sufferers from other similar mobility-impairment and neuro-degenerative diseases, who need help too. We must learn from each other and we must learn to help Louise and the hundreds of thousands like her. – Madam President, we are debating the last annual report which will be presented to the Parliament by Jacob Söderman. Today is not the time when we say farewell, but it is a moment to appreciate the work that Jacob Söderman has carried out and his efforts on our behalf and very much in the interests of Europe. The European Union institutions are inevitably a large and complex bureaucracy and, of course, there are going to be mistakes and administrative errors. The institutions seek to minimise those errors, and they must be prepared to listen to advice on how to do that. The Ombudsman is there, as we all know, to act as the arbiter in a fair and objective way. I would say to the Commission that they must think long and hard before they reject any of the Ombudsman's findings. I been appalled to come across examples where the Commission has blatantly rejected the Ombudsman's findings. Without going into details, I have a letter here from Mr Prodi to one of my colleagues. The Ombudsman found there had been maladministration and the Commission flatly refused to reverse the situation. Mr Prodi writes: 'I am convinced that the solution we offer is the most suitable in the light of the specificity of the case and I am disappointed that your constituent does not see it this way'. It is hardly surprising that the MEP concerned has written to me in the Committee on Petitions to say that the reply from the President of the Commission is preposterous. It is impossible to defend that before the citizens. I am sorry in some sense that it is Commissioner Liikanen who is here this morning. I always appreciate his words and certainly acknowledge the good relations between his department and the Committee on Petitions. I was very heartened to hear his words this morning about the Commission's preparedness to look at the review of the inter-institutional agreement. The time for that is certainly getting very close. I want to make stronger points about the Code of Administrative Behaviour. Last December, Commissioner Kinnock promised to this House that we would receive a review on the workings of the voluntary Code. We are yet to see it, although we have heard it will come in the near future. To my mind, it is already a year late. A code has to be binding, it must not be a voluntary code; and it also needs to be consistent. The citizens of Europe do not distinguish between the institutions of the European Union. To them, Brussels is one place, Strasbourg is somewhere else. They want a consistent code across each of the institutions. I have analysed the voluntary code of the Commission and compared it with that proposed by the Ombudsman. In over 70% of the articles, there are differences. Some differences may be small, but some are very big indeed. The Commission code does not explicitly recognise the need for courtesy. There is no provision for an apology or correction of mistakes. The Commission code is very weak on access to documents and on discrimination: it does not recognise that discrimination can be based on language, membership of a national minority or even appearance. The Commission's code says staff shall not be guided by personal interest. The Ombudsman's code says the official shall not take part in a decision in which he or she or any close member of his or her family has a financial interest. I would urge the Commission to be more relaxed about it, to listen to the code that is proposed by the Ombudsman and endorsed by this House, and to accept it. It should be in the forefront, it should not say: 'Well, none of the other institutions has done so'. I know that is the case. Nevertheless, the Commission is in the driving seat here and should be much readier to accept the advice, coming from friends, which will enable it to face the citizens of Europe much more confidently. I am delighted to say that the Committee on Petitions had a recent meeting with the Danish presidency at which the presidency expressed its willingness to look at the new interinstitutional agreement. We have the communication from the Commission on complaints and petitions, and we now have Mr Liikanen's proposals. The time has come for us to have that new interinstitutional agreement. – Mr President, I am sure I speak for more or less everybody in the Chamber this afternoon when I say that we believe culture does not get enough money. The question is what do the Members who are not here think? What they would all agree is that we must make sure that we get value for the limited amount of money that we have to spend on culture. I really need to be convinced that we are getting value for money out of the audiovisual observatory. That is why I tabled, and supported, Amendment No 3 that was put forward by the Committee on Culture, restricting our commitment to three years. It could be extended, but our commitment is for three years. My reasoning is threefold: what substantive evidence do we have that the audiovisual observatory is doing the job that we want? Let me quote Mrs Dührkop Dührkop in her report on this. She said that Parliament’s own audiovisual services had a negative perception of the quality and usefulness of the paid services provided by the observatory. We are running a EUR 6 billion deficit with the United States. Clearly we are getting something wrong and we need to get that put right. Secondly, I would say that we are financing statistical services from too many angles. The observatory itself: EUR 215,000; Eurostat: EUR 250,000; Member States’ statistical services: EUR 350,000. That is almost EUR 1 million we are spending on statistics alone. The observatory is used to perform those tasks that Eurostat cannot. We should be asking Eurostat and the Commission if they could sort it out, to give us the information we want so that we can try and get better value for this money. If I can say that in under two minutes, it is not unreasonable to expect the Commission and Eurostat to get their act together in three years. Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking all three rapporteurs for their reports, which I fully support. In the ten years I have been in Parliament I have had responsibility either as the budget rapporteur or the shadow budget rapporteur for the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, often working very closely with Mrs Iivari. I wish to concentrate mainly on the culture report. She and I are broadly in agreement on the principles. Perhaps we would differ to a certain extent in that I have always thought the parliamentary procedure for supporting activities is very open and transparent. I also attended the conciliation meeting just before Christmas, when we hammered out the new legal base. I want to pay tribute both to the Commissioner and to the Commission staff for their support, as also to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, who was extremely supportive. Let me just make three key points. Spending on cultural activity is important. I totally agree with the Commissioner: Europe has to be, and is, about more than economics and trade. The activities of organisations such as the European Youth Orchestra, 'Swinging Europe', the European Forum for the Arts and Heritage – I could carry on – all help people to understand not just culture but also the cultural dimension of Europe and, through that, the European Union itself. We all know that the Culture 2000 programme is grossly under-funded. It is also restricted by its own terms, and many organisations that need help at a European level and have been turning to Parliament will now be able to use this new legal base. We cannot expect the Member States to fund cultural activities of a European dimension – they will concentrate on the national dimension. Culture funding is too small – that has been said before. Nearly 50% of our money goes on agriculture – I make it less than 0.5% on culture. But culture is an important wealth creator: 17% of UK GDP comes from the creative industries. Finally, we have to ensure that organisations that receive funding support get the information in good time, so that money is spent efficiently as well as effectively. The right of the ordinary citizen to petition the European Parliament is one that was felt to be important enough to be part of the Treaties and I believe that it merits such standing. It is an extremely effective way for anyone to make direct contact with the heart of the European institutions on matters which may not be of political importance but which are of consequence to European citizens and residents. Some may question the benefit of petitioning Parliament, but the recent success of David Petrie, who had received support from the Petitions Committee and the European Parliament as a whole for his petition, in the Italian courts in gaining equal recognition for non-Italian lecturers highlight what a petition can bring about. My co-rapporteur and I have kept this very much in mind in our report. We have pushed for this right to be made easier to access and exercise, not only by exploiting new technologies and media but by reform of the procedures which govern petitions once they are received by Parliament and passed on to other institutions. The current system for petitioning allows petitions to be submitted electronically, but only as an initial form. Follow-up is done via post, and this can obviously create delays in the preliminary stage of proceedings, well before it comes before the committee. Alternatives such as electronic signatures and electronic correspondence need to be investigated if Parliament wants to keep up with the increasing number of petitions that are submitted. Clearer rules for treatment of petitions once they have been deemed admissible are also urgently required. The Petitions Committee can currently ask the Commission for information on a particular subject, but has very little say over the time the Commission or any other institution can take to provide an answer to the committee's questions, or even whether MEPs can have access to those answers once received. For example, we in the Petitions Committee are currently considering petitions on the Lloyd's organisation, but are denied the opportunity to view the response given by the UK government to the Commission's questionnaire on the matter. If the European institutions and Member State governments are serious about transparency in their working methods, then their treatment of petitions needs review. It does not help to see the very behaviour alleged in a petition replicated in its treatment. Member States in particular need to pay more serious attention to citizens claiming their European rights. The right to petitions should aim to strengthen the concept of European citizenship, protecting the four freedoms of those in the Union and ensuring that European legislation is properly and efficiently implemented. As we move into the 21st century, with a Union of possible 28 members and an increasing body of legislation at a European level, the role and process of the petition needs to change in order to maintain its importance and usefulness. – Mr President, I too am sorry that the vote will not now be taking place. I am concerned, as are the other speakers, at the plight of the people in Iraq. One should never forget that the plight of the people in Iraq is being inflicted upon them by their own government. We should not forget that in January this year Parliament passed a resolution asking that the Kuwaiti prisoners of war still imprisoned in Iraq should be released or at least that details should be given to their families and that there should be compliance with the United Nations resolutions. That has not happened and we must be quite unequivocal in sending the message to Iraq, and indeed to the people of Kuwait, that we in Europe are not going to forget and are not going to ignore the plight of those people still being improperly imprisoned in Iraq. We want to make that message as loud and clear and unequivocal as we possibly can. Madam President, I too would like to add my thanks to Mr Mulder for the way he has carried out his work as budget rapporteur this year. I will be supporting the budget proposals for 2004, but with a certain amount of reluctance, and I will certainly be supporting amendments to them. In particular, I commend the amendments proposed by the Committee on Culture and ask Parliament to think of those organisations such as the youth parliaments and the Youth Orchestra, which do wonderful work for young people but need their funds to be paid in a prompt and efficient manner, something which is not always the case. I would particularly commend the remarks by Mrs Dührkop Dührkop, and the Commission must get the legal base in order so that those funds can be paid next year promptly and on time. I think I am the last speaker from Parliament before the rapporteur and the Commission and I just want to make three fundamental points. The level of the European Union budget, at just over 1% of Europe's GDP, is about right. When I started my political life an elderly gentleman said to me 'always remember that when you put your hand up to vote for expenditure, you are actually putting it down into my pocket'. One penny in the pound is acceptable, one cent in the euro, but no more. Secondly, the Commission must get its accounts in order. All the good work done by European Union programmes is totally destroyed by these regular accounting problems. Is there not a single Commissioner prepared to accept responsibility for this and do the decent thing? All the while they do not do so, the European Union is the loser. Finally, we must have proper democratic control. Last year, for instance, the budgetary authority voted EUR 3 million for Euronews. I heard only yesterday that to this day not a single cent of that money has been given to Euronews, which is one of the best ways for citizens in the European Union to find out about European affairs. I fear that the Commission could not care less whether Euronews fails. Worse than that, it is ignoring the budgetary authority, which it should do its best to respect. Mr President, as we debate, yet again, this issue of the regulation of Lloyd's of London, 63 names are currently facing bankruptcy proceedings against them in the English courts. This is not an abstract issue to them, nor is it a matter that has long since been resolved. It is a very real issue and one that will continue to be of serious moment for years to come. Those 63 people did not become names under the present regulatory regime, but in the pre-2001 period. The losses that they are now faced with and that are, seemingly, forcing them into bankruptcy, occurred under the regulatory regime enforced between 1978 and 2001. Those 63, the petitioners to this Parliament, and thousands of other names from many European countries have one simple question, the question put in our resolution of last September and reiterated today: did the United Kingdom, between 1978 and 2001 implement, fully and correctly, Directive 73/239/EEC relating to Lloyd's? This question has been put to Parliament by petitioners. It is a legitimate question. We have put it repeatedly to the Commission. The Commission, so far, seems strangely reluctant to answer it. The dossier presented to Parliament in December in response to our resolution of September 2003 is totally inadequate and conspicuously fails to offer any answer to that central question. Commissioner Bolkestein, who launched two sets of infringement proceedings against the UK Government over the regulation of Lloyd's, regularly tells us that his responsibility is only to bring a Member State into compliance. That is right, but only in part. He has other responsibilities as well. Life would be simpler for us all if there was only one responsibility. That is never the case. Allow me to remind the Commission that it has a Treaty obligation, under Article 197, to answer questions posed by Parliament. That Article is not there to allow clever sophistry, like the question once posed in an Oxford University admission interview, which asked: 'Is this a proper question?', to which the smart-Alec reply is, 'Yes, if this is a proper answer.' That may well do in a university interview, but not in Parliament. If a non-reply was sufficient, there would be no point in having the Treaty obligation in Article 197. Citizens have a Treaty right to petition Parliament about whether rules are being respected. The Commission has a Treaty responsibility to ensure that EU rules and directives are properly respected. Parliament has a Treaty right to have its questions properly answered. I can only assume that, for reasons unknown to me, the Commission finds it embarrassing to answer this question. Clearly the British Government is acutely embarrassed and I find it shaming, as an Englishman, that the British Government is being so secretive in this case that it ordered the withdrawal of all British responses from the file the Commission released to Parliament. What on earth does it have to hide? The Commission should not aid it in this secrecy or become complicit in it. When this petition was put to the Commission, I believe the Commission behaved correctly. It investigated the petitioners' complaints. It was clearly not satisfied with the situation and sent a detailed questionnaire to the British Government. Although this House has never been allowed to see the responses, it is obvious that the Commission was still not satisfied, since it launched infringement proceedings. Subsequently it launched further, separate infringement proceedings covering the regulatory regime post-2001. The Commission now judges that the current regime is in compliance. Well, it knows the facts and we do not, so we cannot comment at this moment on that. But the Commission's satisfaction with the post-2001 regime does not take away our right to ask the Commission about the regulatory regime prior to 2001, nor the Commission's responsibility to answer us. The EU has to be based on a system of rules and laws. There cannot be a pick-and-choose system. Policy-holders of Lloyd's have a right and need to know whether the solvency rules were being respected. People who invested in Lloyd's names also have that right. As one said to me, we had a right to assume the rules on solvency were being respected and that we were not operating, as it were, in the Wild West, where rules could be ignored. If the Commission persists in refusing to give a clear answer to this House, we have a major difference about the interpretation of Article 197 of the Treaty and a major interinstitutional problem. In my opinion Parliament would need to refer this to the European Court of Justice for resolution under Article 232 of the Treaty. Under that Article, if Parliament believes the Commission has failed to act, under the obligations imposed upon it by the Treaty, then the ECJ can be called upon to give a ruling. I hope that this afternoon the Commissioner, whom I greatly respect, as indeed I do Commissioner Bolkestein, will now at long last give us a straight answer to a straight question. Did the United Kingdom between 1978 and 2001 implement fully and correctly Directive 73/239/EEC? Yes or no? .  Mr President, in 1997, an English lady, who is so fearful that she still has to remain known as Madam X, submitted a petition to this Parliament. She simply questioned whether the British Government was properly regulating Lloyd’s of London in accordance with Insurance Directive 73/239/EEC. The same question or allegation has subsequently been made in other petitions, some signed by hundreds of Names and several on behalf of thousands. Since being appointed rapporteur I have come to know Madam X and she has told me her story. She recognised that by investing with Lloyd’s and becoming a 'Name' – I should explain, for non-Anglophone listeners, that means a passive external investor whose affairs were managed by Lloyd's as approved agents – she recognised that she was exposing herself to . But she told me that she only took on that risk because she believed Lloyd’s was regulated in accordance with British and European rules. Earlier this year Sir Nigel Sheinwald, the United Kingdom's Permanent Representative to the EU, sent a strongly-worded letter to Mr Gemelli, Chairman of the Committee on Petitions, effectively seeking to block this Parliament’s right to get to the facts. I am pleased that our own legal services – who say Parliament must be very wary of attempts from representatives of other institutions to limit our powers – have confirmed that there is nothing in the rules to stop us having a parliamentary inquiry, so long as the terms of reference differ from any question before the courts in a Member State. Commissioner Bolkestein will speak for himself, but what he has said to the Petitions Committee, and his actions, clearly indicate that he has concerns about the regulation of Lloyd's. He sent long questionnaires and received responses. Unfortunately, those letters and responses have never been made public or made available to the Petitions Committee or to Parliament. The key question that the petitioners pose is this: does Lloyd’s have the reserves to cover their liabilities, as Directive 73/239/EEC requires? Answering that requires an audited statement of the reserves and an authoritative estimate of the liabilities. Perhaps the Commissioner can give us the figures – in particular with reference to the old liabilities at Lloyd's that they sought to separate in the scheme known as Equitas. The petitioners are not questioning this Parliament about the present regime, which the Commissioner now thinks may be satisfactory. They have asked us about the period from 1978, when the directive should have taken effect, to 2000, when they submitted their petitions – or, in Madam X's case, 1997. Was the directive being applied then? The Commission so far is seeking to remain silent about that period, a period when the assets of the petitioners were being seized and some were being made bankrupt, when policy-holders were at risk if the reserves were not there and when other insurance undertakings across Europe were having to comply with the directive, a period when the English courts in various rulings said that Lloyd’s did not have a system in place for making proper reserves. In 2000 Mr Justice Cresswell pointed out that the catalogue of failings and incompetence in the 1980s by underwriters, managing agents, members' agents, and others was staggering and brought disgrace on one of the City’s great markets. I do not ask the Commissioner to take action against the British Government for any failings in that period. He has to bring a Member State into compliance. I simply ask for an authoritative answer –  or  Between 1978 and 2000 was the British Government correctly applying EU Insurance Directive 73/239/EEC? I respect the Commissioner, I know him to be an honest man. I hope that we will be able to get a straight answer. There has been great pressure applied by the British Government, but this must not be a case where a big country is let off the hook. If the Commission can assure us and explain how the regulation respected the directive, that is an answer we can give to the petitioners. However, if the Commission believes that, prior to the adoption of the Financial Services Act, the British Government was not in compliance, it must say so. We need to get to the truth of what happened and why thousands were ruined. I hope the Commission will give formal answers. There should be no need to have a committee of inquiry. That is why I have tabled an amendment giving the Commission six weeks to give a full, authoritative and written answer to this House. However, failing that, Parliament must reserve its right to have the fullest inquiry into this lamentable case. – Madam President, I want to congratulate Commissioner Kinnock on the statement he has just made. I simply do not know how he managed to keep a straight face as he read out those comments. That statement from the Commission was quite appalling. I do not blame Commissioner Kinnock himself, but I certainly blame the action, attitude and inaction, in fact, of the outgoing Commission. This is a pathetic fine from a pathetic Commission. All we can say is that it is absolutely typical of the way they have conducted affairs over the last five years. I only hope that the President-elect Mr Prodi will take this as an example of how not to do it. I was one of 32 Members of this Parliament who took a private legal action before the French courts last year in a last-ditch attempt to get more tickets for fans across Europe. Unfortunately, when we went to the French courts, we were told that it was too late at that stage to get the redistribution of tickets ordered, although the French courts themselves recognised that European rules had been flouted in the procedure that was followed. I should like to point out that the costs to the individual Members of Parliament who took that legal action was, surprise, surprise, in the order of £1000 each, something rather more than the fine that has now been imposed upon the World Cup organisers. The Commission itself, had it wished, had the power to impose a fine of something like EUR 20m – perhaps even more – if it had taken this seriously. It did not take it seriously in 1997 when it could have taken action to ensure a fair distribution. It did not take it seriously in 1998 when we had the problem and fans across Europe were denied the opportunity to see the World Cup. It is not taking it seriously now. What sort of message is this giving out to sports organisers? Commissioner Kinnock called this a symbolic fine. Well, it is certainly giving a sign that it does not take it seriously at all. We are talking about big business here. The amounts of money involved are significant. Something like £300m, I am told, was the turnover of the World Cup; the fine something like EUR 1000. This is simply not acceptable at all. The sign that is being given is that the Commission is turning a blind eye, that it is not really worried. It is saying to large-scale organisers: ‘You can carry on exploiting the fans’. It is also saying that this is the way to encourage – and it is encouraging – a black market in these tickets. It must do something to stop it. Sport is now big business. The Commission in future must show that it means business to ensure that sport, like other businesses across Europe, must observe European rules and regulations. Mr President, the European Capital of Culture programme is one of the European Union's success stories. It gets Europe out of Brussels and Strasbourg and into the hearts and minds of people right across Europe. Cities compete to become the Capital of Culture - which is regarded as an accolade - and indeed they should. In Britain, Glasgow's time as the European Capital of Culture in 1990 was a real success story. Today it is the third most visited city in Britain. Glasgow's urban renaissance provided a blueprint for others and I am sure that Liverpool - the home of the Beatles as nobody needs reminding - will have great success during its year in 2008. As an MEP from the south-east of England, I am only sorry that our candidates of Canterbury, Brighton and Oxford were not chosen. Any one of them would have been a great Capital of Culture. As an English Conservative I have great respect for our French Socialist President of the Committee on Culture; I admire the first quality, I will excuse the second! In this instance I believe the majority in the committee was correct. It was too long to wait until 2019 for any of the accession states to have the opportunity to become a Capital of Culture. By sharing the list from 2009, when Lithuania will be the first of the accession states to get the opportunity, we will not detract from the principle: we will introduce the opportunity of cooperation across Europe, putting Europe back into the concept. That is something we can look forward to: cooperation is, after all, what Europe is all about. I, together with my colleagues in the British Conservative delegation, am totally committed to the need to have more women playing a full and active part in public life. We share in all expressions of regret that there remains inequality and gender discrimination and especially under-representation of women in politics. However, we are not convinced that one form of discrimination should be countered with another form of discrimination, namely the introduction of quotas to guarantee women elected places. I feel this especially keenly as only on Tuesday evening of this week my 27-year-old daughter, Caroline, was selected as the prospective Conservative candidate for the Southampton Itchen constituency in the United Kingdom. She achieved this position totally on her own merit and in open competition against all-comers. We should not adopt a position that in any way detracts from the position of the increasing number of women who are demonstrating that without fear or favour they can earn their place in public life. For this reason members of my delegation have supported much of the resolution but we registered our opposition to those calls for positive discrimination in favour of women, which we think is the wrong way to make progress, is itself demeaning to women and distorts the democratic process and we have therefore abstained in the final vote. – Madam President, it is very late, there are very few of us here and I guess all of us are very tired this evening, but actually we are striking a blow in this debate for a citizens' Europe. In the report by Mrs Fourtou, whom I congratulate, the Committee on Petitions is for the first time bringing a specific petition to the floor of the European Parliament. I also congratulate Mr Miller, who gave a great deal of support to the petitioners on this particular item. We have demonstrated that by petitioning citizens can get an item debated on the floor of the European Parliament and that the Commission will come to Parliament, as indeed it came to the Petitions Committee. I thank Commissioner Liikanen for the initiatives that he has put forward. A scientific study was inaugurated under STOA, Parliament's assessment panel. All this was achieved by the free opportunity that all citizens have across Europe to bring to their concerns before this European Parliament. The outcome of this report is a good compromise and one which I hope will command universal support across the House tomorrow. Having said that, it is important to remember that while some citizens come here with their particular concerns, there will be many others who perhaps have a different point of view. Recently a very well-known celebrated TV presenter in the United Kingdom said to me: 'always remember that there are people who need breast implants'. This lady herself had to have a mastectomy for preventative cancer reasons and she has had a very successful implant. So she said: 'do not stop it; do make sure, however, that if there are to be implants, they are safe.' In the proposals from the Women's Rights Committee, the Environment Committee and the Commission, we have a compromise that I am sure we can work with and will be good for Europe and for a citizens' Europe. – Mr President, education, education, education – the British Prime Minister once said this was his priority. I have some doubts about that and I really wonder whether this is our priority in Europe. Certainly not if you look at what we spend on it. In Europe we spend EUR 2.5 billion each year on olives, we spent less than EUR 2 billion over six years on the Socrates Programme. The rapporteur even had to fight to get a separate debate on education on our agenda this morning. For the single market to flourish and for Europe to flourish we need an educated and mobile workforce, confident about crossing national boundaries. The Socrates Programme is important for that and so making it more efficient as Ms Pack's report urges is really very important. Linguistic skills are certainly important for labour mobility. We all know that those students who participate in the Socrates Programme benefit tremendously from it; sadly, not enough students do. For students from my own country there is always an imbalance between the number of Continental students wanting to go to the United Kingdom and the very limited number of British students prepared are willing to go to Continental countries. What is the reason for that? It is very clear – the lack of linguistic skills among students in Britain. We must send a message to the British Government that they should reverse their appalling decision of the last few weeks to allow secondary students in Britain not to learn any foreign language at all. That is certainly not the way to ensure that Europe will flourish or that Britain will get the best benefits from its membership of the European Union. Mr President, I would like to place on record my appreciation to Mr Berlusconi for the gift of a tie. That was a very kind gesture from the Italian presidency. I assume lady Members may have received scarves, though I am surprised that we do not see any of the ladies wearing scarves here this afternoon. I wish to say that on 25 September 2003 Parliament passed a resolution requiring the Commission to answer certain questions on the regulation of Lloyd's of London and to give information by 15 November 2003. That was not received, though a promise was received from the Commission, dated 18 November, that information would be received by 15 December. Last week I was assured by Commissioner Bolkestein's office that information would be available. I regret to inform the House, as rapporteur on this item, that I have yet to see any of these documents. I understand that the British Government is seriously censoring such documents as may be made available. Unless you can advise me to the contrary that they have now been received, I hope that we can send a gentle but nonetheless firm reminder to the Commission to honour its promises. – Mr President, I hope there will be a great football match on 17 June between England and Germany. Most people are looking forward to a good match and hope that it will be safe. But, unfortunately, that is not the view of everybody. The German police anti-hooligan task force has said that it is pretty confident there will be hooligans there. I cannot say anything about German hooligans but I can talk about English football hooligans – I cannot say ‘fans’ and even the word ‘hooligan’ is not strong enough for them. There is a group of people who very definitely are planning to be there. If you doubt me, just look at the press photographs of the problems that occurred in Copenhagen last night. As well as the problems my colleague referred to that could occur inside the stadium at Charleroi, there is a serious problem that may occur in the streets around that stadium. The head of the Belgian Police Federation has said that he is concerned. We are saying now to the Belgian authorities and the European football authorities that they should choose the option of a safer ground that is available elsewhere in Belgium, and the stadium in Brussels has been cited. . – This is the third time I have had the responsibility of being draftsman on the budget for the Committee on Culture and I would particularly like to thank Mr Bourlanges, the budget rapporteur, for his help and cooperation. I have time to make only two points. One is regularly made: culture and education are important for Europe, not just for the past but for the future of our continent. We neglect them at our peril and, by continuing year after year to spend less on our cultural and educational programmes than we spend on growing tobacco, we are not just neglecting them, we are turning our priorities completely upside down. With so little to spend, it is important that we spend it efficiently and effectively. Secondly, are you aware that today, 14 December 1999, the European Youth Orchestra, the European Youth Parliament, the Yehudi Menuhin Foundation, to name just three, are yet to receive the subsidies that we voted for them for this year? They are told the cheques are in the post. I am afraid their bank managers are not so ready to accept that excuse. Much is promised but, sadly, not a lot of it is delivered. This is a comment that I think applies just a shade too often where Europe is concerned. I urge the Commissioner never to let this happen again. The next item is the joint debate on: - Council and Commission statements on the situation in Pakistan and the - Report (A5-0275/2004) by Elmar Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal for a Council decision on the signing of the Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. The next item is the Commission statement on problems with salmon. I am sure we all agree with your remarks, Mr Blokland. Mr Duisenberg, I am sure I speak for every Member in the House in wishing you all the best for the future. We can all recognise the fact that you are passing on a new but highly respected institution, a situation largely due to the contribution that you personally have made to the foundation of the European Central Bank. We thank you very much for your presence today and for all the work you have done on behalf of all of us in Europe. The next item is the joint debate on: - Recommendation for second reading (A5-0131/2004) by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the common position of the Council with a view to adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the hygiene of foodstuffs (rapporteur: Horst Schnellhardt); - Recommendation for second reading (A5-0129/2004) by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the common position of the Council with a view to adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin (rapporteur: Horst Schnellhardt); - Recommendation for second reading (A5-0130/2004) by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the common position of the Council with a view to adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council repealing certain directives concerning food hygiene and health conditions for the production and placing on the market of certain products of animal origin intended for human consumption and amending Council Directives 89/662/EEC and 92/118/EEC and Council Decision 95/408/EC (rapporteur: Horst Schnellhardt); - Recommendation for second reading (A5-0138/2004) by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the common position of the Council with a view to adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down specific rules for the organisation of official controls on products of animal origin intended for human consumption (rapporteur: Horst Schnellhardt). – The debate is closed. The vote will be tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. The debate is closed. The vote will be tomorrow at noon. The debate is closed. The vote will be at noon today. The next item is the report (A5-0237/2003) by Hans Blokland, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the 2002 Annual Report of the European Central Bank (I5-0012/2003  C5-0238/2003  2003/2102(INI)). It is particularly appropriate that we welcome to the House this morning Mr Duisenberg, President of the European Central Bank. He is the first President of the European Central Bank, and it may well be his last visit to Parliament in that capacity. So, President, you are particularly welcome. The debate is closed. Commissioner, I am afraid we need the answer now, so that we can complete this part of the voting procedure. Parliament has rejected the Commission proposal. I assume that for the moment the Commission is going to maintain its text. The next item is the report (A5-0197/2004) by Albert Jan Maat, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the protection of animals during transport and related operations and amending Directives 64/432/EEC and 93/119/EEC. I am informed by the services, Mrs Jackson, that the process will come into place gradually. There is nothing there at the present time.  However, your comments will be passed to the President of Parliament so that he is fully aware of the position and wishes of this House. The next item is the report (A5-0448/2003) by Anne-Karin Glase, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the implementation of Directive 96/71/EC in the Member States (COM(2003) 458 – 2003/2168(INI)). I have received six motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The debate is closed. The vote will be on Thursday. Colleagues, under the circumstances I propose that we refer this matter back to committee.  *** – The next item is the report (A5-0290/2003) by Guido Sacconi, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision on a monitoring mechanism of Community greenhouse gas emissions and the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol (COM(2003) 51 – C5-0031/2003 – 2003/0029(COD)). Mr President, on a point of order, yesterday some colleagues will recall that during the vote on the Herzog report I suggested that the President look at Rule 130a. We had a mass of amendments to vote on. Before that, we had voted on amendments to a report drawn up on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. To make voting easier, however, these amendments had been arranged in blocks. Rule 130a states quite clearly that where there is a mass of amendments, the committee involved should try to sort them out before they are put to the vote in plenary. I would like the Bureau to have a proper look at Rule 130a so that Parliament's services can be instructed to ensure that the committees observe that Rule. That concludes the debate. The next item is the report (A5-0479/2003) by Rodi Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the development of the services sector for job creation (2003/2132(INI)). The next item is the report (A5-0469/2003) by Klaus-Heiner Lehne, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on takeover bids (COM(2002) 534 – C5-0481/2002 – 2002/0240(COD)). The next item is the report (A5-0263/2003) by Ingo Schmitt, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on the negotiation and implementation of air service agreements between Member States and third countries (COM(2003) 94 – C5-0065/2003 – 2003/0044(COD)). Mr Patten, this is not the first time you have addressed the House on this issue. The next item is the vote.   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   *** The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the outcome of the EU-Russia Summit. That concludes the item. The vote will take place on Thursday. I thank all colleagues who have contributed to this very pleasant debate. Obviously Parliament and the Commission are making a lot of progress. The joint debate is closed. The vote will be at noon. The next item is the joint debate on three Community action programmes: - the report (A5-0384/2003) by Mr Sacrédeus, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal for a Council decision establishing a Community action programme for bodies promoting reciprocal understanding of relations between the European Union and certain non-industrialised regions in the world (COM(2003) 280  C5-0350/2003  2003/0110(CNS)) - the report (A5-0368/2003) by Mrs Rühle, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council decision establishing a Community action programme to promote active European citizenship (civic participation) (COM(2003) 276  C5-0321/2003  2003/0116(CNS)) and - the report (A5-0396/2003) by Mr Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a Community action programme to promote organisations active at European level in the field of equality between men and women (COM(2003) 279  C5-0261/2003  2003/0109(COD)). I will make sure that the services concerned are aware of your suggestion. The next item is the report (A5-0152/2003) by Bernard Poignant, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending European Parliament and Council Directive 2001/25/EC on the minimum level of training of seafarers (COM(2003) 1 – C5-0006/2003 – 2003/0001(COD)). Thank you very much Mrs Lulling! You always keep the House up to speed. I am sure we are much better informed on this matter now.   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   *** That was a point of clarification rather than a point of order. The next item is the oral question to the Commission (O-0003/2004), by Philip Bushill-Matthews and Bartho Pronk on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on demographic trends in the EU. The debate is closed. The vote will be tomorrow at noon. I suggest that you take up that matter with the President-in-Office of the Council. I have received five motions for resolutions from different political groups. The vote will take place tomorrow. The debate is closed. I have received six motions for resolutions to wind up the debate tabled in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The debate is closed. The vote will be on Thursday. The next item is the Commission statement on the crisis in the steel sector. The next item is the vote. Mr Evans, that message will certainly be passed on to the President of Parliament. I hope we can look at it within the Bureau. That concludes the explications of vote. Therefore we will vote on the legislative resolution, the adoption of which will close the procedure.  ***   ***   ***   ***   –We must now ask the Commission if it intends to withdraw its proposal. – The next item is the Commission statement on the demolition of contaminated US warships in the European Union. Are there any objections to that oral amendment? – The debate is closed. The vote will be tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. The next item is the joint debate on public markets: Recommendation for second reading (A5-0242/2003) by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the Council common position with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the coordination of procedures for the award of public works contracts, public supply contracts and public service contracts (11029/3/2002 – C5-0141/2003 – 2000/0115(COD)) (Rapporteur: Stefano Zappalà) and Recommendation for second reading (A5-0245/2003) by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the Council common position with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive coordinating the procurement procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors (12634/3/2002 – C5-0142/2003 – 2000/0117(COD)) (Rapporteur: Stefano Zappalà). The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at noon. I understand, Mr Swoboda, that you have spoken to other political groups regarding this matter. The next item is the joint debate on the Single European Sky: - Report (A5-0010/2004) by Giovanni Claudio Fava, on behalf of Parliament's Delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the framework for the creation of the single European sky (PE-CONS 3690/03 – C5-0603/2003 – 2001/0060(COD)) and - Report (A5-0009/2004) by Marieke Sanders-ten Holte, on behalf of Parliament's Delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint texts approved by the Conciliation Committee for a regulation of the European Parliament and the Council on: 1. air navigation services in the Single European Sky (the service provision regulation) (PE-CONS 3691/2003 – C5-0604/2003 – 2001/0235(COD)) 2. the organisation and use of airspace in the Single European Sky (airspace regulation) (PE-CONS 3692/2003 – C5-0605/2003 – 2001/0236(COD)) 3. interoperability of the European air traffic control system (interoperability regulation) (PE-CONS 3693/2003 – C5-0606/2003 – 2001/0237(COD)). That concludes the debate. I have received one motion for resolution to wind up the debate. The vote will be tomorrow. The debate is closed. The vote will be tomorrow at noon. Thank you, Mr Fatuzzo. I think you have brought the House to silence with your remarks. That concludes the explanations of vote. The next item is the report (A5-0378/2003) by Pasqualina Napoletano, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on 'Wider Europe  Neighbourhood: A New Framework for Relations with our Eastern and Southern Neighbours (COM(2003) 104  2003/2018(INI)). The joint debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at noon. The debate is closed. The vote will be tomorrow at noon. The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Council and Commission statements on transatlantic relations. Your wish is well within the Rules, Mr Gollnisch. I should like to point out, however, that we have had the debate on this matter: we are now dealing with the vote. ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   *** Commissioner, I can only assume that means you are not withdrawing the text.  ***   *** That concludes the vote. Mr Hume, personally, I very much appreciate your remarks because I come across the same problems myself. To add insult to injury I was even stopped by the police for speeding on my way here this week.  As far as I am aware the Strasbourg authorities are currently looking into the matter. I hope that it will be resolved before too long. I believe that the more pressure that is brought to bear, the better the result will be. I declare adjourned the session of the European Parliament. I think your message is loud and clear, Mrs Maes, and we will ensure that it is understood. Colleagues, it is my pleasure to welcome this afternoon, on behalf of the European Parliament, two eminent representatives from the Geneva Initiative for Peace in the Middle East: the former speaker of the Knesset, Mr Avraham Burg and the former Minister of Information in the Palestinian Authority, Mr Yasser Abed Rabbo. I hope that the meetings they had yesterday and this morning with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, the delegations for relations with Israel and the Palestinian Legislative Council, and representatives of the political groups will have been fruitful. The lively interest shown by Members in these meetings testifies to the enthusiastic support of the European Parliament for the Geneva Initiative. You are very welcome here. I hope that you appreciate that this afternoon we have a very light attendance in the House because we only finished our vote eight minutes ago. I think everybody is enjoying their lunch at the moment. Thank you for coming. The next item is the vote.   ***   ***   *** The next item is the report (A5-0419/2003) by Hubert Pirker, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council, in view of the European Council of Thessaloniki, on the development of a common policy on illegal immigration, smuggling and trafficking of human beings, external borders and the return of illegal residents (COM(2003) 323 – 2003/2156(INI)). Mr Blokland, I am informed that the groups have approved the application of the simplified procedure to that report.   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   *** The next item is the oral question to the Commission (O-0076/2003 – B5-0417/2003), by Stephen Hughes, Proinsias de Rossa and Jan Andersson on behalf of the PSE Group, on harassment at the workplace. The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0218/2003) by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Council common position with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading (5390/4/2003 – C5-0143/2003 – 2001/0117(COD)) (Rapporteur: Christopher Huhne). We shall make sure that the text is corrected.  ***   *** I should like to thank the Commissioner and all colleagues for their participation in this debate. It is not often that, in Parliament, we get close to a real debate. I think we just about got there tonight. The debate is closed. I have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m. The next item is the vote.   ***   ***   ***   *** Mr Hatzidakis, that was not a point of order. It is quite clear that more than 32 Members objected to the oral amendment. It is therefore not accepted. The debate on this report is suspended. It will continue at 3 p.m. That concludes the joint debate. The vote will be tomorrow at noon. The next item is the report (A5-0258/2003) by Alexander Radwan, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the adequacy of banks' own funds (Basel II) (2001/2257(INI)). I will certainly make sure that your complaint appears in the Minutes and is raised in the Bureau. I will point out to the services that you were present, but not voting, during the vote on the Sterckx report. The next item is the report (A5-0013/2004) by Colette Flesch, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly in 2003 (2003/2007(INI)). I will ensure that the college of Quaestors is aware of what you have mentioned. Parliament's services, and the Council, are very much aware of the numbering problem that you raised. The text will be aligned as you request. Mr Fatuzzo, the order of the House requires me to call you now. It seems you have a larger audience now than you sometimes might have had in the past! – The next item is the report (A5-0296/2003) by Bernd Lange, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 97/68/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to measures against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from internal combustion engines to be installed in non-road mobile machinery (COM(2002) 765 – C5-0636/2002 – 2002/0304(COD)). As these two reports are closely linked I believe that we should follow the rapporteur's advice and refer this back to committee as well.  *** The joint debate is closed. The vote will be at noon today. I shall ensure your remarks are passed on to the President of Parliament. We now continue with the vote. Mr President, as we seem to be having a bit of a breather, I should like to ask Mr Corbett whether he feels that the voting procedure we have undertaken is in conformity with the new Rules of Procedure we drew up for this House to try and simplify voting. The amendments relating to Mr Nobilia's report, drawn up on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, were voted in blocks. However, we are now having a very contentious, long vote on a report drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which I believe is not in conformity with the Rules of Procedure. Now you are asking us to delay the final vote. Under which Rule are you doing that, Mr President? Colleagues, we have had a rather historic debate on the Blokland report this morning, which has turned out to be a tribute to Mr Duisenberg and all he has done on behalf of the European people. Mr Duisenberg, I think you will recognise that you take the goodwill of this House with you for your future, and that as representatives of the people we speak for the European citizens. You have brought a huge measure of stability and firm management to the European Central Bank, and you have set it on a good course for the future. We are deeply grateful to you.  The debate is closed. The vote will be at 12 noon. The debate is closed. The vote will be at noon today. The debate is closed. The next item is the vote. That concludes the explanations of vote. The next item is the report (A5-0110/2004), by Philip Charles Bradbourn on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision amending the amended proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Decision No 1692/96/EC on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network (renewed referral). The debate is closed. The vote will be on Wednesday. The next item is the report (A5-0312/2003) by Marieke Sanders-ten Holte, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation concerning Community cooperation with Asian and Latin American countries and amending Council Regulation (EC) No 2258/96 (COM(2002) 340 – C5-0368/2002 – 2002/0139(COD)). The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the initiative in the United Nations for a universal moratorium on the death penalty. – The debate is closed. The vote will be tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. That concludes the debate. That concludes the debate. The vote will be at noon on Wednesday. The next item is the report (A5-0254/2003) by Mark Watts, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a Council decision concluding an agreement on maritime transport between the European Community and the People's Republic of China (6049/1/2003 REV1 – COM(2002) 97 – C5-0062/2003 – 2002/0048(CNS)). – It is particularly appropriate that Mr Monti is responding to this debate because the great conundrum with postal services is how to square an open market and free and fair competition with providing a service which is universally available to all, even in the remotest and least inhabited region of the European Union. In the hills and glens of Scotland and the rural borders and central belt, on the beautiful but fragile islands of the Hebrides, Orkney and Shetland, there is real concern at possibly losing this essential service. Yet we all know that service quality can only improve if postal services, like all service industries, are given the financial and management freedom of the private sector and the spur of open, even international, competition. I would suggest that there is a solution. It is already employed widely in the transport sector. Air routes, ferry routes, train routes, bus routes, within and to these remoter areas are put out to tender. The bidder who offers to provide the specific service at a specific quality level and at the lowest subsidy level gets the contract. Let us call this a negative tender franchise. This permits desirable competition in providing these services under a publicly-supported but fully transparent franchise system. Why could not mail collection and delivery in a certain region be put to negative tender in this manner? The lowest subsidy would win the franchise for a certain period of time. Why could not the sub-post office in a remote village also be put out to this sort of negative tender? It would therefore be up to the appropriate democratically accountable government body, local, regional or national – probably under overall EU supervision – to set the service criteria and the financial resources for meeting this particular social purpose. Otherwise the postal services can be left to all the demands and constraints of the marketplace. – Mr President, I raised this point of order last month and I now have to raise it again. Each of the questions is dated, presumably with the date when they were submitted, yet they are completely out of order. The first was submitted on 16 May, the second on 4 May, the third on 24 May, the fourth on 11 May and the fifth on 24 May. Is there any rule regulating how they are put in order, or some secret method of getting your question to the top of the list? – Mr President, to visitors from afar, the sea crossing to the Scottish islands is the stuff of romance, and indeed the beauty never fails to move both native and visitor. But for those who live and make their living there, the island shipping services are both an essential lifeline and a costly hurdle to be overcome for their economic and social well-being. The costs that impede are not only the fares, difficult as those often are, but also the inconvenience of pre-booking, of waiting in queues, of fitting in with timetables which provide low and variable frequencies; and then there are the risks of delays and cancellation due to weather or mechanical breakdown, or strikes which hold the islands to ransom from time to time. There is considerable concern on the Scottish islands at the moment that the EU's competition policy, which requires putting these services out to competitive tender, will undermine these lifeline services even at their present level and add a further upward ratchet to the cost of living and of doing business. We need to reassure those who live and work on these vulnerable islands and remote peninsulas that they have nothing to fear from bringing a measure of competition into the process for awarding these contracts. Can I ask the Commission to do what it can to reassure the Scottish islands, the Scottish executive that is struggling with this situation at the moment and the Scottish Parliament, that it stands ready to make sure that this process works well, that it does not undermine but improves the shipping services in the Scottish islands. Perhaps through Commission Verheugen I can pass an invitation to the Transport Commissioner, his colleague, Mrs de Palacio, to accompany me on a romantic trip to the Scottish islands. – Mr President, we very much welcome these two positive reports and congratulate the rapporteurs and fully support the vital importance of the MEDA programme. In this respect it is critically important that the funding should be properly applied. I would urge the House to support the two amendments tabled to the Piétrasanta report in the name of this group. As a member of Parliament's delegation to the Mashreq countries and Gulf States, I am concerned that the association agreements with these countries should be ratified as expeditiously as possible; the Jordanian agreement in particular is only slowly proceeding through the ratification process. Our amendment urges the Member State parliaments which have not yet ratified the agreement to hasten this process. Our other amendment refers to a degree of hypocrisy in our approach to developing a fully free-trade zone in the Mediterranean area. As Mr Valdivielso pointed out in his speech, the EU has a large trade surplus with this area. Yes, we call for a free-trade zone but when it comes to those products which these countries could most readily export into Europe – i.e. agricultural and food products – we maintain trade restrictions. Our friends in these countries understandably question our sincerity. I accept that free access to Europe for Mediterranean products poses problems for producers in our southern Member States, but surely this problem could be compensated at least to some extent in the CAP. So our second amendment calls for the acceleration of progress to free trade for all products including food and agriculture. I would appreciate the Commission's estimate as to the likely timing for achieving a full free-trade zone in the Mediterranean and how it intends to implement this. I would urge my colleagues to support these amendments along with the two excellent reports under consideration. – Mr President, if Europe is to be the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world, as proudly stated at the Lisbon Council, then we must provide the conditions and the environment which will encourage our scientists to test the frontiers of knowledge. We cannot hobble that search and yet we must also uphold the dignity of the human person. What is human dignity? What is the dignity of someone with Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, cystic fibrosis or quadriplegia resulting from spinal injury? Yes, the embryo also is due dignity, but we have large numbers of supernumerary embryos resulting from in vitro fertilisation and these are usually frozen and ultimately destroyed. Is it not better that these be made available for research purposes, with parental permission, rather than they be uselessly destroyed? It is vital that any such research in these sensitive areas be done under strict regulation and only in those countries where it is permitted and where there is adequate regulation. To my friends I would say, the Good Samaritan crossed the road and helped his neighbour: your neighbour may have Parkinson's disease, or Alzheimer's disease or spinal injury, or diabetes. With due respect, would you pass by on the other side? This report also touches on the issue of the patenting of biotechnological inventions, Directive 98/44. This Directive has passed through all the legislative processes necessary in the European Union to make it law, Commission, Council and Parliament. Transposition, however, is years behind. It is surely up to the Commission to insist with all the legal powers at its disposal on transposition in all the remaining countries. Too often, in all these areas of advance, the Commission and the Member States use fine words and then dither and dally weakly while Europe falls yet further behind. Commissioner, please be robust. Please stand up for the future of Europe. Mr President, research using supernumerary embryonic stem cells is necessary to bring closer the day when adult stem cells can be used therapeutically to cure 'dread diseases'. I am sure that goal is desired by everyone. Parliament's previous compromise was accepted by an absolute majority of this House. This restricts funding of research by the European Union only to embryos which are surplus to IVF requirements and are destined for destruction only at the undifferentiated stage of development up to 14 days and only in those jurisdictions where there is effective and strict regulation and it is permitted by law. This has yet again been adopted by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. I regret that our rapporteur has represented his own position, rather than that of the committee. The suggestion that the European Union cannot fund ventures that are not permitted in any one Member State opens an absurd and dangerous precedent. What about nuclear research and the growing of the tobacco? I should like to tell Mrs Breyer that Germany permits research on  embryos, even if German embryos are exempt. What is the purpose of a cut-off date? If it is valid to use embryos produced before a date, can it be invalid to use embryos produced after that date? An amendment by Mr Nisticò is flawed by the fact that it restricts itself to stem cell lines and not to embryos. Do we have so little trust in European IVF practitioners that they might be tempted to overproduce embryos for ulterior purposes? That is surely an unjustified calumny on an honourable profession. Is it more Christian to walk by on the other side and leave our fellow human beings lying in the ditch on the road to Jericho, smitten by Parkinson's Disease, Alzheimer's Disease or spinal injury? God gave us humans inquiring minds, the ability to tame nature, the brains and skills to improve our lot on earth. Yes, we must respect human dignity and I completely respect my colleagues' strongly held views as to what human dignity is. However, I ask is it an early-stage embryo destined in any case for destruction, or is it your parents struck with Parkinson's Disease, or your teenage son paralysed with a broken neck? The Research Committee's considered position – Amendment 10 – is a position we must support. We must persuade the Council of Ministers to do likewise. – Commissioner, would I be mistaken in suggesting that perhaps the admirable arrangements at Doha had something to do with the relative success of that meeting compared with previous WTO meetings? Perhaps we are finding a way of having a more civilised relationship with the NGOs than was evident in Seattle and Genoa? Are you happy that we now have a more rational and civilised arrangement to deal with the representations of NGOs for the future? – Mr President, I much regret that the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy did not deliver an opinion on this subject. Our coordinators were led to believe that there would be insufficient time to prepare an opinion before the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy finalised its report. In fact, this process took quite a lot longer than originally planned and there would have been sufficient time for the Committee on Industry to have given an opinion. An opinion from that committee ought to have been regarded as essential – in fact it is arguable that the Industry Committee should have been the committee responsible for this report. This proposal will have a substantial impact on the European Union's biotechnology industry, on the EU's research programme and, in particular, on the priorities of the Sixth Framework Programme for Research. It also impacts on our trade in GMOs and in genetically modified research material with both developed and less-developed countries. The Commission proposal adds undesirable restrictive requirements beyond the internationally agreed Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, but the Environment Committee's suggested amendments go drastically further. It is essential that in our vote today we radically change the direction of this report. I am only sorry that, coming late to this matter as I did, there was insufficient time to introduce all the changes and separate votes I would have liked. Why is it such a problem? These additional restrictions and bureaucratic requirements will only discourage investment in life science research in Europe, and further encourage the investment in research to transfer to other areas with more favourable legislation outside Europe. Our scientists will go the same way as the research investment. Have the Commissioner and the rapporteur any concept of the damage this is likely to do? Did they give any consideration to the ambition expressed at Lisbon for Europe to be the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world? This proposal does not restrict imports into the EU of GMOs for contained research, but exports of public and private GM research material to third countries will be subject to yet further and disproportionate regulation. This proposal runs diametrically contrary to the EU's life science and biotechnology action plan. Was there any coordination or consultation with the Commissioner for Research and the Council of Ministers for Research? It is quite appropriate that the Commission should propose, and Parliament and the Council approve, the requirements of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety, but we should go no further. If we do, we will jeopardise our life science base for the future, our scientific community, the whole Lisbon strategy and Europe's future as a dynamic knowledge-based economic power in the world. I call on Parliament to vote overwhelmingly against Mr Sjöstedt's report in all its critical aspects and, in particular, to support Amendments 50 and 51, which will at least mitigate the extent of the damage this proposal and report are likely to cause. – Is the Commissioner aware of research at the Scottish Crop Research Institute in Invergowrie near Dundee that shows that tobacco plants can be genetically modified to accept the implanting for multiplication of potential anti-cancer vaccines? It is quite ironic really. Would it not be desirable to redirect the European tobacco-growing industry towards such benign purposes and to further promote this type of research? . – Mr President, by and large the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy goes along with the Commission proposal and the amendments of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. We had three proposed amendments. Two of them are largely accepted in Mr Piecyk's report. One concerned the question of ice-breaking ships carrying fuel in the Baltic. The other was the question of the 600 to 5 000 tonne tankers which we were concerned would not be available. We wanted a five-year waiting period to 2008. The period will be more or less five years so we will go along with that. We were surprised at this figure of 25.7 API that was pulled out for the definition of heavy crude oil. The generally recognised international level between intermediate and heavy is 22 API. We cannot understand why that, as we proposed, was not an acceptable level. I understand the Council has also gone for this figure of 25.7, which will probably cause certain troubles, especially in the North Sea oil fields. Be that as it may. Having said that, this will not avoid the next spillage of oil. Until we can get the IMO on board with these sorts of standards we will still get s leaving a non-EU port, plying past the EU to a non-EU port with a non-EU flag. Those are the problems we have to face. We really must get the IMO to come to terms with these standards. Also, we must have a scheme to help with the transition from the single-hulled tankers to the double-hulled, especially in the 600 to 5 000 tonne level. A scrapping and building assistance system must be set up. – Mr President, Mrs Zorba's report is very sensible and the PPE-DE Group will support it and almost all the amendments by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. These add to the Commission's impressive project of developing a valid European research area. The only amendments we will oppose are No 6, – which excludes European funding for research aimed at military purposes. We do not look for research specifically aimed at military ends, but research might have military as well as civilian applications, for example research into new materials. By including this prohibition clause, there could be unnecessary impediments to genuinely beneficial research projects. We also prefer the committee's Amendment No 24, regarding the budget, to Mrs Zorba's Amendment No 26, which specifies an amount for the Marie Curie International Fellowships. It is surely better to leave the EUR 1.630 billion for human resources unspecified, so that there is more flexibility. We certainly have nothing against the Marie Curie fellowships. Our group has tabled a clarifying Amendment No 25 which specifies that participation will be permitted by those who hold doctoral degrees where those degrees were obtained in three, rather than four, years. I trust that Mrs Zorba will accept that this is a sensible clarification. I would like to concentrate on the specific programme for science and society, which is essential for re-establishing the necessary level of trust and mutual understanding between the scientific community and civil society at large. This is vital if Europe's research effort is to be supported widely and with continuity and thereby realise its full potential. We have seen a lamentable breakdown in this relationship, perhaps as a result of faulty assertions by scientists and politicians in previous crises. Perhaps it is even more attributable to a lack of willingness by science and industry to communicate clearly and systematically. Our hope is that this programme will promote much improved communication and that the public will be much better informed about the objectives, the results, the applications, the achievements, the recognition of the ethical and environmental constraints and the practical usefulness of scientific endeavour. We hope, above all, that more young people will be attracted to science as a career. We badly need them for all our futures. We wish Mr Busquin, his team and this programme well. – Mr President, paragraph 16 of Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines' excellent report calls for training designed to correct school failures. It would be far better if we could avoid that sort of failure. The saddest case of all is a school leaver with no qualifications to his credit descending into hopelessness. A situation which becomes sadder and sadder as the occupations available to those with no qualifications become scarcer and scarcer. The reason is often that the young teenager is discouraged from learning by the rigidities of an education system that sticks to established lines and tries to fit square pegs into round holes. I appeal to the Commission to look favourably on a research programme into the use and development of aptitude tests to identify at an early stage – 12 or 13 years old at the latest – what a young person is going to be good at, no matter what that profession, occupation or job may be. Schools have to respond by providing courses at which young people will succeed. Success encourages further ambition. It means satisfied, enthusiastic teenagers instead of discouraged troublemakers. It means school-leavers with light in their eyes, with excitement about the future, able to contribute to society. It means school-leavers with a passport to a better and more fulfilling life. Nothing is more vital to the future of Europe than the young people who are going to build that Europe. There is not one young person who cannot play his part. We have to enable this sadly wasted potential to be mobilised and to succeed. – Commissioner, do you have any reason, on public health grounds, for a difference in the taxation rates on, for example, Scotch whisky or French Bordeaux wine or even my colleague's Bavarian beer? Can you envisage applying an alcohol – equivalent basis for taxation in Europe? – Mr President, can I ask the Commissioner specifically: are bones for soup stock other than the vertebrae and skull perfectly safe and all right to use? Is , which I think is made from the shank of cattle, all right to eat and is oxtail, which is actually I suppose an extension of the vertebrae, all right to eat? – Mr President, the Musotto report is a good report. The overall thrust is quite correct. The purpose of Cohesion Funds is to counteract the natural centrifugal forces of a large single economic and monetary unit, which is what the European Union and the euro zone are, by helping the less advantaged regions come up to the level of the more prosperous ones. This is the point: if the less advantaged remain less advantaged, the Cohesion Funds will have failed in their purpose. But that is why, contrary to what Mr Mussotto and the Committee on Regional Policy demand, we should stick to the 75% of average Community GNP as a graduation point. Having reached that level the pump will have been adequately primed and the graduating region, with a suitable transitional process, should be well able to continue up the escalator to 100% and higher. Surely it is only reasonable that at that point these Cohesion Fund resources should be reallocated to those regions which lie further behind. That is why I will vote against recitals O and R of Mr Musotto's report. There must also be financial discipline. An open-ended honey pot is not conducive to encouraging self-help and self-reliance. This is why I cannot countenance leaving open-ended the possibility of an even higher percentage of European Union GDP being committed to cohesion policies. 0.45% should be quite adequate and will make us hone our priorities and procedures, even in the context of enlargement. So the second half of paragraph 57, or any compromise of similar effect which leaves the amount be made available open-ended, is not acceptable. Given these small but significant changes I will be very pleased to support Mr Musotto's report as an important contribution to the future well-being of all parts of our European Union. – I was impressed by the Commissioner's balanced response to this question but it does not fit particularly well with the UK Government's proposal that the secret services – MI5 and MI6 – should perform surveillance of all Internet traffic. They intend to demand the surrender of encryption codes and to penalise those who fail to surrender them even if the codes have been lost and are unobtainable. Does the Commission consider that this proposal is, firstly, consistent with civil rights, as enunciated for the Community, and, secondly, in the interests of the development of Internet use in the European Union, as rhetorically advocated by everyone, including in particular the British Prime Minister? – Madam Chairman, I voted against the Howitt report and did so in line with the majority on the Industry Committee. We must strive for conditions which are wealth creators. Our companies, both big and small, can operate at their best. Corporate social responsibility is good for companies. Being a good corporate citizen will redound to their advantage, will show up on the bottom line. Therefore, it is in the corporate interest to be socially responsible, and any company which is not is heading for self-inflicted disaster. But a proper solution will differ – by size, by industry, by location, by financial condition, by many variable circumstances. That is why I find this report by Mr Howitt not just laughable in many of its absurd demands, but dangerous. Not only will its red tape and bureaucracy kill off the dynamism of our companies and wreck our SMEs with unnecessary costs, it will also eliminate any likelihood of us in Europe playing any part in realising the laudable aims of corporate social responsibility. The Commission's approach is correct. Mr Howitt's interventionist approach is wholly misguided. We must urge the Commission to stick to its well-considered way. This is why I voted against Mr Howitt's report. . I voted in favour of confirming Mr Trichet as President of the European Central Bank because it is in my country's and my constituents' interest that the ECB be well managed and that the euro succeed as a currency. The euro zone is by far the most important destination for Scottish exports and source of our imports and tourists. I am adequately persuaded by Mr Trichet's reputation, and by the way he responded to the questions in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, that he will maintain the stability of the euro. He will also maintain the requisite pressure on the Member States to pursue prudent financial policies and to reform their social structures in order to foster economic growth and development. This is what matters to Scotland. – We welcome the fact that this is going to be a great spur to innovation and development and the competitiveness of European industry in the future if it does get through the IGC and onto the statute book. Following up Mrs Fraisse's question and your response to that, the borderline must be established as to what is acceptable for patenting and what is not. In the biotechnology area there is still this grey area. You purported to have reached an absolute decision on this. Is there any room for manoeuvre or is that the absolutely determined and settled position of the Commission as you said in your earlier answer? – Mr President, I am very surprised at the order of voting here. I would ask you to reverse it so that the compromise resolution by four groups, including the two biggest groups, comes first. It is interesting that you mention that you collude with or discuss with the US how you are dealing with Syria and yet your policies are in such contrast. Is that a sort of 'nice cop, nasty cop' approach to Syria? I should like to ask, in particular, about Lebanon. Syria is in occupation of large parts of Lebanon, its neighbouring country. What attitude do you take to this position as regards any furtherance of this agreement? – Mr President, of course the questions and the statistics by our Green colleagues are loaded and selective. Can I therefore ask if the Commission agrees that a Eurobarometer survey shows that 75% of Europeans favour basic research aimed at new technologies which help knowledge to progress? Is it true that, according to Eurobarometer surveys, 48% of Europeans agree or strongly agree that GM is useful in food production for improved nutrition and for improving shelf life or taste, despite the emotive campaign by the Greens to convince them of the contrary? Not only are these campaigns emotionally charged, they muster distorted and misleading information to support their ultimately untenable and irrational opposition to the new technology of genetically modified crops. I wish they would be honest enough to recognise that there are at least some benefits. I believe that these actual benefits, not to mention the potential benefits, substantially outweigh any risks. Yes, there are always potential risks in any new technology product or process. We are challenging the frontiers of knowledge, but we have safeguards in place. We require exhaustive testing and trials in laboratory and field. But the opponents do not want proof. They condone obstruction and destruction of these trials. Will they deny that GM crops have major environmental benefits? Not only do they reduce production costs, they also cut back on the use of energy, pesticides and herbicides and reduce CO2 emissions. Though their opponents are still grasping at straws, it is clear from experience in America and elsewhere that the environment benefits. In Europe we can perhaps afford the luxury of denying ourselves the food productivity benefits which GM crops offer, but do our Green colleagues not consider the interests of their fellow human beings in sub-Saharan Africa or East Asia to whom GM crops will bring nutrition and health benefits and may even help them survive? Do they consider the effect that turning our backs on this advance will have on our scientific base and researchers, on our farmers and farm workers' jobs? On thousands of jobs in the food processing industry? On the price of food as well as the quality and the variety available to our consumers? Yes, European consumers are entitled to be able to choose what food they buy and eat. We must protect our environment as best we can, but we also owe it to our constituents to be frank and honest about the risks and benefits. It is accepted that an organic label indicates 95% organic, i.e. up to 5% not organic. Why make the non-GMO label almost unobtainable by specifying unachievable levels of purity? I could well accept that premise, with the mischievous intention of making non-GMO so rare that no one could afford it. Then everyone will be forced to come to terms with the real world, where there will always be the possibility of some adventitious GM content. – Can I make a suggestion for the future. At the beginning of this session, I waved my hands repeatedly for a long time. I may or may not have got on the list, but I had no idea whether or not this was the case. Would perhaps one of your assistants acknowledge our wavings so that we would know we can stop and whether we are on the list or not. It might help us. – Mr President, I would like to pay tribute to our rapporteur, Mr Karas, who has shown superb judgement in reaching a broadly acceptable balance in this complex but vitally important directive. Our group was very concerned at any possibility of the directive failing for lack of consensus in Parliament or between Parliament and the Council. But the rapporteur has very successfully squared this very difficult circle. We in the PPE-DE Group are very pleased to support the compromise which the rapporteur and the Commissioner have engineered. I should, however, flag up some residual concerns which we still have. For example, compromise Amendments 4 and 12 give Member States the right to provide an option for coverage of biometric risks. Certainly this is only an option, but we are concerned that differences between Member States might in any way impede cross-border occupational pension funds and the ability to transfer employees together with their pension funds around the European Union. I would appreciate the Commissioner's reassurance as to his understanding of the impact - or hopefully non-impact - of this option. The other concern regards the requirement for a register which also has to show in which Member States the institution concerned is operating. The rapporteur has assured me that, under the agreed amendment, no such register would be required if instead the institutions were 'authorised'. Again I would appreciate the Commissioner's specific assurance that this is also his understanding. This would certainly be welcome to the financial services industry with a view to eliminating unnecessary red tape. Apart from these two matters, we are very pleased with the outcome which provides ample flexibility in, for example, how pension benefits are paid out. The lump sum payment will continue to be permitted. We are taking a major step forward in providing a Europe-wide single market in financial services. Mr Karas and Commissioner Bolkestein are to be congratulated for this achievement. Tomorrow we must ensure a resounding vote of support for this directive. – Many of the problems that affect injured parties in trade disputes, especially SMEs with limited resources, arise from the time it takes for the WTO to make its rulings – often many months, if not years. No doubt this will be the case with the new steel dispute with the Americans. But rather than granting compensation, which would probably arrive too late to prevent the business concerned from going to the wall, would it not be better for the WTO to have a system of temporary injunctions, which would require the suspension of such actions on the basis of  evidence of illegal action until substantive decisions can be made? Would the Commissioner be in favour of such a system? If so, could he suggest how one might go about implementing it? – Is the Commissioner satisfied that KFOR is adequately controlling and successfully preventing movements of fighters and arms across the border between Kosovo and FYROM? – Mr President, I am speaking today on behalf of Mr Evans, who is the shadow rapporteur for the PPE-DE Group. He very much regrets that he cannot be here today. We have presented some amendments to these reports, with the general aim that they should provide more encouragement for free trade. In the last few years, the European Union has rightly focused on the need for greater competition and consumer choice and has often used its powers to great and beneficial effect. Increased free trade and the reduction of unfair subsidies have been a most positive result. Just as policies of this kind produced handsome rewards for businesses and consumers when my country, under a Conservative government, rediscovered and pioneered these practices in the 1980s, they are now doing the same in the rest of the European Union. Encouraging greater competition is an enormous task. For the first three decades after the Second World War, state aid and protectionism were less controversial. It is still difficult to combat these traditional ideas and entrenched interests, especially in a climate where the opponents of free trade often have the catchier slogans. We are most fortunate that we have, in Commissioner Monti, someone who is convinced that the opening of markets and the freeing of trade is in everyone's interest. We are most grateful to him for his persistent and hard work in combating anything, be it cartels or subsidies, that impedes the operation of a fair market. The report by Mr Herzog concerns the newly-introduced scoreboard for state aid. This is a most useful tool. We fully support its introduction and are anxious that it should be used enthusiastically. It is most encouraging to note that it points to a decline in state aid, although we would like to see a further decrease. The disparities between countries show that some Member States provide up to three times as much state aid as others. It is our hope that the scoreboard will serve as an encouragement to Member States to continue and accelerate their reforms and that the scoreboard will also assist the reforms of the new Member States after their accession in 2004. Mr Lipietz's report focuses on general competition policy and we are pleased to see that it reflects many of our concerns. In particular, the report highlights the lack of progress in the liberalisation of the gas and electricity markets and urges action in the opening up of European markets in energy, transport and postal services. The report rightly congratulates Commissioner Monti and his staff on their approach. We in this Parliament should urge him further along the path he has chosen to take. I would like to conclude by commending the continuation of the European Union's policies in these areas to Parliament. I hope Parliament will support our amendments and I look forward to even greater progress in the years to come. – Mr Commissioner, you have primarily concentrated on the logistical and technical aspects, and you have only just begun to touch on the monetary risks that could ensue from what you call the gigantic holdings by foreigners of German marks but also presumably of other euro zone currencies. If these holders begin to get concerned about how they are going to exchange these holdings, or about what the euro is going to be, is there a risk of them moving into the dollar or other currencies and thereby destabilising the euro even more than it has been? – Mr President, here we are, all worried about our dependence on imported fuels and energy, worried about the future of our economy and our jobs, and yet we have Mr Fitzsimons and Mr Kronberger bemoaning and belittling one of the main potential sources for meeting that problem, the nuclear energy solution. Not only does it meet our energy and economic requirements, but it also meets our environmental requirements under Kyoto. I would say – and Mr Chichester's excellent report bears this out – that unless we diversify our sources of supply of energy, especially by promoting indigenous supplies of energy, we will be in trouble with our economy and our jobs in the future. Nuclear energy must play a significant part in both those ambitions: diversification and indigenous supplies. There are other areas as well. Mr Chichester mentioned coal. We must promote clean technologies in coal. In my part of the world, in Scotland, we would like to see more emphasis on promoting the oil and gas industries and their potential for better recovery systems, for exploration in marginal areas, for developing marginal oil and gas fields, for replenishing the reserves, the reservoirs in the south part of the North Sea, with gas in the meantime to protect us for the long term, and particularly transmission systems. That applies not only to oil and gas but also to electricity. In all these areas there is great potential for research. That ties us into what we will discuss tomorrow in the Caudron report on the Sixth Framework Programme. In all these areas, diversification, indigenous supplies and research will help us to meet our objectives. – Mr President, I wish to begin by saying how delighted I am that the presidency is prepared to put some pressure on the governments which, in turn, I hope will put pressure on their parliaments to proceed with ratification. It is quite shaming that after well over six months there are eight Member States still to ratify. The Jordanians are particularly sensitive to the slow pace of progress. Commissioner Patten is determined to reinvigorate the whole Barcelona process and the European-Mediterranean relationship. I hope that the Council will follow that lead and ensure that this is transmitted down through the governments to the Member State parliaments. Could he give me some assurance that the Council gives Mr Patten its full support in what he is trying to do in the Mediterranean area? – Commissioner, Scottish fishermen and others north of 55o north are being restricted to 15 days, which they find difficult to accept, all the more when they see the industrial fishermen scooping up a million tonnes of sand eels and Norway pout, which are both the feedstock for their whitefish, and in many cases, immature haddock and other whitefish. How can you justify this to the fishermen of Scotland? – Could the President-in-Office agree that there can be substantial benefits for the environment, human health, developing countries and European science and business from GMO crops? Is there a risk that Europe could miss out on the benefits if we respond to hysteria rather than to scientific fact? The Lisbon Summit declared that the European Union was to be the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world. Is the Council prepared to give a lead by championing the biotech industry with a faster rate of field trials and product approvals by the Member States? In considering this legislation, would you bear in mind that a certain flexibility is certainly desirable? For example, if you have a rigid nine hours or eight hours with rest periods thereafter, you may be within sight of the ultimate destination. In such cases, it is certainly better to allow an hour or two extra driving rather than a 12-hour rest period followed by a further one or two hours' driving. I appeal to you to consider a certain flexibility in the application of any legislation related to animal transport. – I wish to thank the President-in-Office for his reply. I would say this question was prompted by the very large number of letters I receive from constituents about this particular issue. It is perhaps the issue I have received more letters about in the last year than any other. It strikes me from what he said that it is very strange that after several of the Coptic Christians had been attacked and disturbed by the others, that it was only Coptic Christians who were arrested. The President-in-Office said in his reply that the Council will remind the Egyptians of their responsibilities and wait until they have signed the association agreement and can bring an institutionalised political dialogue to bear. But why does he not use the signing of this agreement as a basis on which to force the Egyptians to come to a more equable, reasonable and non-discriminatory approach to their Coptic Christian citizens? – Mr President, I would like to ask the movers of Amendments Nos 31 and 37 to clarify whether they intend that this should ban the therapeutic cloning of human embryos. – Mr President, of course we all want health and safety at work, employers, workers and shareholders. What good is it if we have health and safety but no work? There is the problem and there is the challenge. There is an honourable tradition in the long campaign and struggle to achieve acceptable standards of health and safety in the workplace. This started way back with the industrial revolution. It freed children from hard manual labour in the mines and the mills, and to this day it protects workers against avoidable accidents and illnesses. And it is not over yet. Still there are unacceptable accidents on the farm and on the factory floor. Only last month on a farm next door to mine in Scotland, the young husband and father of a family died after being caught in a potato-harvesting machine. We must do all we can and continue to strive to eliminate all such tragedies. Our work and business culture must be a safety culture, but life and work can never be devoid of risk. There is no way we could achieve that utopia and still have a working economy, where men and women leave home each day for their workplace and thereby support their families and our economy. Be in no doubt that absurdly exaggerated restrictions and red tape will only kill off enterprise and the enterprises to which our constituents resort each day to make their living and provide the prosperity on which we all depend. The Commission has it very nearly right. Apply effectively the legislation we already have and encourage health and safety actions as good for business as well as for workers. Mr Hughes' report goes far too far. Its litany of exaggerated good intentions and its demand for yet more legislation risk the future of Europe's businesses, of our prosperity and our jobs. – This is an emotive subject, not least because of the title 'Human cloning'. Stem cell research would be a less tendentious title. But my purpose is to ask for calm reflection and consideration of the facts and the implications for us the human race, for our health and well-being, for the future of science and the health industry in Europe and, by no means least, for our spiritual well-being. So let us get some facts straight. Fact: human reproductive cloning is banned in the UK. There is no intention to change this and the UK industry has no intention of carrying out human reproductive cloning now or in the future. The research use of embryonic stem cells is a short-term response to a scientific need to discover ways of reprogramming adult cells. Fact: stem cell research is tightly regulated under a stringent act of Parliament by the highly respected and rigorous Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority. It would perhaps be a good idea if other Member States were to have something similar. Fact: there have recently been interesting advances in adult stem cell research, but there still remain significant disadvantages compared with the unique characteristics of embryonic stem cells. The aim of research in embryonic stem cells is to find ways of using adult stem cells which overcome these disadvantages. So we come down to the basic dilemma. Is an embryo up to 14 days old a living being with the full rights of a living person or of a foetus? Rightly or wrongly, the UK and the US legislation have permitted this type of research for ten years and many benefits have resulted. And after consulting world-wide for many months the Donaldson report recommends extending such research for therapeutic purposes. The choice is yours, colleagues. You have to be true to your conscience and your faith but also consider the future well-being of your neighbour. Caring for your neighbour is also a Christian enjoinder. He may have Alzheimer's or Parkinson's or diabetes. – Madam President, while Mr Dupuis was held in Laos last week, a large number of your colleagues, including myself, were detained in Brussels airport for eight hours, from 3 p.m. to 11 p.m., because the government of Belgium would not ensure the free movement of European citizens around Europe, including that of MEPs. We could not get out of Brussels at all; we had to go back, and in the end departed from Charleroi the next day. It took me 23 hours to get home. Could you make representations to the Belgian Government, and to other governments, for that matter, to the effect that all European citizens, not just MEPs, should be entitled to free movement in Europe and that unjustified and illegal blockades of airports should be dealt with by the authorities in the proper manner? – Mr President, I accept the Commissioner's very balanced arguments about Kyoto and the economic repercussions thereof but we are talking here about particular problems in peripheral and remote areas. If the Commission has no instruments to influence levels of excise taxes in Member States, and if favouring certain industries is not allowed under the competition rules, surely where a region suffers special disadvantages because of peripherality and remoteness, it would only be a case of equalising matters, not of giving any special preference if there was some differential in excise taxes permitted in those special and particular circumstances? – It is very important. The Commissioner seemed in the interpretation to say that embryonic stem cell research would not be allowed to receive funding at all. That is not my understanding of the situation. – This is quite unsatisfactory. That is what Question Time is about! We have a question, we are entitled to ask a supplementary question and we certainly expect to have a proper response from the Council of Ministers. That is why we have come here. Mr President, I hope you will remonstrate with the Council. – Mr President, it is a matter of great sorrow that we have to point the finger at one Member State – one of the founder Member States of this Union – for not fulfilling its solemn undertakings, for being prepared to act against the laws of the European Union and indeed for taking the law into its own hands. It is with real concern that we also have to point the finger yet again at the Council of Ministers: while it knows full well that Member States are not fulfilling their existing undertakings, it glibly goes on producing communiqués of fine words, which advocate even further moves to liberalisation, completion of the single market, increased cross-border trade and fair competition. Only this month, after the Energy Council of 14/15 May, the presidency concluded: "There is broad consensus ..." (does that consensus include France?) "... that the market opening concerning both gas and electricity should be actively pursued and accelerated." The presidency also declared, on behalf of the energy ministers – did that include the French energy minister? –: "A fully integrated single market for gas and electricity cannot be achieved without efficient cross-border trade." Regrettably, we hear the hollow echo of those fine but increasingly empty words at Lisbon about making Europe the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world. And yet in so many critical areas the will is just not there at Member State government level to implement the essentials which have been agreed through all the Union's checks and balances. Why should France expect the other Member States to fulfil their side of the bargain and let France take over their markets and companies, when it procrastinates repeatedly or refuses to pay its dues to the club? Why should France, or any other Member State which acts in like manner, expect to reap the benefits of membership when it blatantly disregards its obligations? The irony is that France is not only disadvantaging its fellow members; it is not just undermining the very essence of the European Union, the single market and fair, open competition, it is also disadvantaging its own energy-using industries. It is also disadvantaging its own people, especially the less affluent, who are being denied the price and the service benefits which would flow from allowing competition and liberalisation of the gas market. Worse even than this, however, is the cynicism of the Council's communiqué after the May Energy Council. It did not dare to mention this impasse caused by one of those members actually sitting at the table, but glibly committed itself, including, I assume, the French energy minister, to further, bigger and faster liberalisation of the energy markets. Can we believe a word it says? Where stands the credibility of the Council and the whole European Union? At the very least, it is the Commission's solemn duty to uphold Community legislation and not to be browbeaten in any way by powerful and intransigent Member States or arrogant political forces. If Member States cannot be trusted to fulfil their obligations, then, sadly, the only option is to bring to bear the full force of Community law and to exact substantial retribution. Will the Commissioner please assure us that such steps will be pursued assiduously without any grace or favour? – Mr President, the current weakness and volatility of the euro is a cause of concern both within and outside the euro-zone. Does the Commissioner feel that the current stability pact and the powers of the European Central Bank are sufficient to force the Euro-land states to make the difficult and fundamental adjustments in their economic and labour markets, which are essential if the euro is going to be taken seriously by the global financial markets? – President-in-Office, European industry is losing its competitive edge in regard to reaching the targets that you and the Council set for it at Lisbon by the extreme cost and time delays involved in obtaining patents in Europe. I believe the Belgian presidency undertook to make a special effort to have the Community patent installed and implemented during its presidency. I would be interested to know what progress is being made and whether you really are resolving the language issue in the European Patent Office. – Mr President, perhaps I could waste a little time because earlier on we were informed that the Linkohr report would be taken at 10 p.m. Obviously you have been speeding through things at an extraordinary rate and Mr Linkohr must have been under the misapprehension that he was not required until 10 p.m. I have only just got here myself as a shadow rapporteur. Could we perhaps waste a little time? – Mr President, the industry committee, after much discussion and serious consideration, is overwhelmingly opposed to the Commission's proposed ceilings, and this is across all groups and nationalities. The UN ECE ceilings were agreed by all our Member States, by the applicant countries and globally, in a protocol signed at Gothenburg as recently as November 1999. Why did the Commission come up with these even stricter and substantially more expensive ceilings only one month later? I understand that the groups, the whole Parliament, are split on this issue, between supporters of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and supporters of the industry committee's line. Members of Parliament should be aware of the serious implications for our industries and agriculture, for our competitiveness, for jobs and – yes – for people and our constituents if the Commission proposal wins through. The industry committee urges this House to vote in favour of the amendments which are tabled in my name and in the name of Mr Bowe. These are the amendments passed by the industry committee. The UN ceilings are quite ambitious enough for us to reach our internationally agreed targets in reasonable time. The industry committee wishes to see these limits fully and properly implemented across the European Union and globally. The Commission can then concentrate on ensuring this occurs, on perfecting the models that are used and perhaps come up with new proposals in two or three years' time on the basis of much more convincing arguments regarding the relevant costs and benefits. Support the Purvis amendments and the United Nations Gothenburg table of national emission ceilings. – I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council, after his few hours working in this Chamber with these Members of the European Parliament, whether he has come to any assessment of what they are worth in terms of pay? – Mr President, firstly I too would like to wish Mrs Damião a speedy recovery and sincerely congratulate her for an excellent report. It will add to the encouragement which the biotechnology sector needs in order to realise its potential in my Scottish constituency and throughout Europe. The thrust of this report is fully in line with the Lisbon Summit objectives and continues the forward-looking attitude consistently demonstrated by Parliament. It should also serve to bolster the Commission's new-found courage as regards biotechnology and the life sciences. But how dreadful the contrast with the Council of Ministers who yet again this week demonstrated their abject failure to follow through on the goals they set at Lisbon. The grossly mistitled 'Competitiveness Council' could not reach consensus about the proper jurisdiction for Community patent disputes. What hope is there of achieving Europe's potential in this area when the Council is at least one year behind the deadline it set itself for agreement on this vital matter? Without a cost-efficient means of patenting intellectual property rights, what incentive is there for our scientists? This is only one example of the chronic foot-dragging we see endlessly in the Council and by individual Member States. Moratoria, legal uncertainty, backtracking and dithering over ethical guidelines, transposition delays, lack of support for those going about their legal business with field trials, elaborate red tape for labelling and traceability. Mrs Damião, thank you for giving us hope that there is real hope in Europe for biotechnology and the life sciences. – Can I ask the Commissioner: if this morning's debate is anything to go by, Parliament will probably accept the common position subject to the  agreed amendments. But I am slightly at a loss to know exactly what that will mean in this particular area. So perhaps the Commissioner could clarify, for example: if an application for embryonic stem cell research came from the UK, or from Italy, or from Germany, would there be EU funding in each of those cases? – My question follows that one. You say it is a precondition within the time . Is that the 2004 time-limit, meaning that it will still be possible to have enlargement beyond 2004 without the Nice Treaty, perhaps under the system suggested by Mr Sjöstedt in this question? – Mr President, this is an unnecessary and undesirable urgency debate. Certainly it is premature, as Mr Dary said. It was initiated by the Bonino radicals and was based on erroneous and tendentious accusations against the Egyptian justice system. In the process of discussions between the groups we elicited the facts, which even they had to agree. The result is that the proposed compromise resolution says virtually nothing more than could be required of any of our own Member States, that is, that freedom and human rights are fundamental to democracy. Despite this, the authors of this motion have been peddling shameful and unfounded accusations in their speeches. However, Commissioner, there is one question I wish to ask you and I would like an unequivocal response, if that is possible. Paragraph 4 of this resolution expresses our support for the Khaldun Centre for Democracy and requires the Commission to continue its financial support for this organisation and its activities. My question is this: is the Commission wholly satisfied that the Khaldun Centre for Democracy has properly managed and accounted for its funds and, more particularly, the European Union funds it receives? That is one of the this case. If ‘yes’, I shall be pleased to support Paragraph 4. If ‘no’ or ‘perhaps no’, I believe we should vote against Paragraph 4 until we are satisfied, and also vote against the resolution as a whole if it still contains Paragraph 4. An answer please, Commissioner. – I object to the fact that we are cutting back the time for Question Time; it is one of the few occasions when backbenchers have a chance to get their time on the floor and I do ask you to extend it to one and a half hours as is on the agenda. That is the agenda and I think that we should stick to the agenda. – I take it from you that it is very unlikely that any agreement could be reached. Just a month or two ago the American Ambassador to the EU stated that the cosmetics area could be the basis of one of the biggest trade disputes, putting bananas and all the others far into the shade, if it was not resolved. So I take it that you are telling us we are going down a path that could lead to near disaster. Have you tried to quantify the potential for retaliation against European industry of other injured parties, and what that could mean in terms of lost jobs in Europe? – Mr President, the President-in-Office is quite right that we have to work on IMO relationships if we are going to get a reasonable agreement with other countries, but in fact the main thrust of the Council's requirements from the Commission following the  accident has been to come forward with new regulations at EU level, which are essentially based on the double hull requirement for all tankers carrying heavy fuel oils. Is the President aware that there are about 4 000 vessels of this type under 5 000 tonnes in the world, and less than 200 of them have double hulls? How does he imagine we are going to replace those several thousand vessels in order that we can continue to provide Europe with its heavy fuel oils? Mr President, now we have vignettes dotted all over Europe and tolls in some other countries, would you agree with me that the euro-vignette system is not a very good single market system. The local haulier in Denmark or in the UK will get his full money's worth 365 days a year, but the foreign haulier from another Member State entering that country – maybe for one or two days or ten days or even 100 days – will not. He is paying over the odds for his vignette unless there is some special dispensation on a  basis. Would it not be better now that we have arrived at this stage to think of maybe having a mutual recognition system, so that a vignette in one country is recognised in other countries, giving a real euro-vignette system works? The Commission should consider coming forward with proposals in order to provide for a common system throughout Europe. I would like to turn now to my friend Mr McCartin. I agree that Irish trucks have a special case. They are compelled by geography to pass through the UK just as British trucks are compelled to pass through the Netherlands, Belgium and France to get around the European Union. The best thing the UK could do to help the Irish and to help the Scottish is to improve the very inferior British motorway system on which we depend to get to our markets. Yes, the Stranraer-Carlisle road is an absolute disgrace. But it is also difficult getting round Birmingham, getting around London, getting to the Channel Tunnel and to the channel ports. The best thing the British could do with this extra money is to improve our system in the hope of improving UK-Irish friendship and relations. – President-in-Office, I represent one of Europe's most ancient and longest surviving kingdoms – Scotland – which is a largely autonomous part of the United Kingdom, to which it belongs. Indeed, Scottish ministers sometimes attend and even represent the United Kingdom at Council meetings. However, my question refers to the Convention which is being set up to look at the future of Europe, at which no Scottish minister or Member of the Scottish Parliament will be present. Do you feel that it would be appropriate for regional assemblies, parliaments and governments to be represented at this very important Convention that is going to decide the future shape of the Europe, of which Scotland and your regions in Spain are very much a part? – Mr President, we have not debated the issue of this special committee. As far as I am aware it has never been raised in Parliament. We are putting it to a vote without any discussion. I would be interested to know how it was established, where its foundations came from, what its costs are going to be, how it relates to the established committees – industry, public health and the others – and whether it is proper to vote on this without any public debate. . – Madam President, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy welcomes this directive. It will completely overhaul and modernise legislation concerning detergents. It is an advance for producers and consumers, as well as for the environment. We did, however, in our consideration of it, identify certain shortcomings which, I am glad to say, will be rectified by many of the proposed amendments in Mr Nobilia's report. The Commission proposal does not differentiate between, for example, a laundry product made and marketed by an international company in large quantities for a mass consumer market, and on the other hand a niche product made in small quantities often by SMEs for specialised applications. Examples of the latter are cleaning equipment for dairies, or for operating theatres. The former can readily follow the provisions of the draft directive with its testing processes and derogation procedures, and there are always ample alternatives, but for the smaller specialised product this can be a brick wall which eliminates a useful, even a central, product. I am pleased therefore that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has accepted the gist of our proposal for a tiered derogation procedure which such producers can invoke. We also proposed a sunset clause so that the comitology procedure will automatically lapse after eight years and be renewed only if appropriate at that time. This is based on the procedure first introduced in the financial services area in order for Parliament to keep some measure of control over the burgeoning comitology systems which are developing in the European Union. On behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy I am pleased to recommend support for Mr Nobilia's report but would suggest that Amendments 5, 15, 20, 33 and 40 unduly overlap with other relevant legislation and should be rejected. Nor can we support the amendments lodged by the Verts/ALE Group at the last minute. Otherwise we can wholeheartedly support Mr Nobilia's report. – Mr President, as author of last year's report on the future of the biotechnology industries, I can only welcome most warmly the high priority given to the life sciences in the Sixth Framework Research Programme and strongly supported in Mr Caudron's excellent report. On the health side, there are great prospects for breakthrough cures for some of mankind's most dreaded afflictions: cancers, heart disease, diabetes and cystic fibrosis, all the neurological diseases – such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, dementia, motor-neurone, spinal and brain injuries. Genetic intervention could eliminate hereditary disasters such as haemophilia and Huntington's Corea which overshadow some families so tragically. On the crop side, the potential is no less exciting, even if this suffers from a campaign of denial from certain shameless vested interests. Hundreds of thousands have died and continue to die from smoking and road accidents, but no one has ever died from genetically modified crops or foods. So much potential good is available to us in reduced applications of herbicides and pesticides, in reduced energy consumption and CO2 releases, and in better quality and higher yields. This is before considering the potential in the developing world for feeding the starving, growing crops in drought-ridden and saline soils, rectifying vitamin deficiencies and so preventing disease for millions. I call on the Commission and the Member State governments to brace their backbones and stand up robustly for what they know is for the good of mankind. Our scientific community, our researchers – not least in my Scottish constituency which leads in these vital areas – deserve our whole-hearted support, not only in passing Mr Caudron's report overwhelmingly, but in backing the simplified and legally certain procedure for approving biopharmaceutical products; for approving genetically modified crops and foods for trials and commercialisation; and for protecting intellectual property rights with an economical and effective community patent. Approving the Sixth Framework Research Programme is only the beginning. We must follow up with the practical steps which will fully realise the potential of biotechnology. Mr President, Tony Blair and Donald Dewar will not have slept well last night! Their worst nightmares have turned out to be reality. The Labour Party heartlands of Scotland have sent them an unmistakable message. The Scottish Labour voter – for so long taken for granted – has spoken. The Scottish Conservative Party candidate in Ayr, John Scott, has humiliated Labour into third place – 5 000 or more votes behind. This will only get worse for Labour when the truth about their incompetent and cynical administration of the European Union's Structural Funds becomes better known and better understood. Because of the Labour Government's tardiness in submitting its proposed maps nine months late in December instead of March last year, it is still struggling to come up with acceptable specific projects. Scottish local authorities are left not knowing whether or not the projects which they are having to underwrite will indeed obtain Structural Fund support. Commissioner: three questions: When do you expect to be able to provide certainty for the Scottish regions and the badly needed projects which are looking for EU support? Are you satisfied with the preparedness of the Scottish Executive to provide the necessary matching funding and to assure you that it is truly additional? Or is it all just the usual Labour/Liberal coalition hot air, all mouth, while feet drag along the cobbled streets of Edinburgh and European money is hijacked by the Treasury in London? I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the extreme impracticality of the manual tagging of individual sheep, and its maintenance for a further two years. Has he ever seen an auction market? I am sure that in his home country of Ireland the situation is the same as in Scotland, where you have thousands of sheep going through in one day and each individual sheep has to be inspected and tagged as it goes through. That will add days to sales for only for two years' worth of savings. Could he not and has he not considered doing this on a flock basis, as opposed to an individual sheep basis, for this two-year period of time? – Mr President, could I ask the President-in-Office of the Council – all of whose good intentions for a multi-ethnic Kosovo I accept – whether he would not admit that the international community’s policy there in all its facets – the European Union, the United Nations, KFOR, NATO  – is really an unmitigated and disastrous failure and getting worse by the day. What is being done to get the KLA and the Albanian bully-boys, who clearly have no interest in a multi-ethnic Kosovo, under control? There just seems to be an ineffectual permissiveness of the situation despite all these wonderful, pious good intentions. – Obviously Mr Bolkestein is finding this a difficult one to square with his own principles of the Single Market, and I sympathise with him in that. Clearly, Directive 93/83 is unsatisfactory. Surely therefore the Commission can go back to the Treaty of Rome and the basis of the whole Community. As I understand it, the Commission's role is to make sure that the Community operates as a community and in accordance with its founding treaties. It should therefore work towards the Single Market by bringing forward a new directive which in fact implements the Single Market in television without frontiers. – Mr President, I join my Scottish colleagues in asking the Commissioner to help us to resolve this situation as urgently as possible. It may surprise the Commissioner to have such a representation from Scotland, but Scotland is probably one of the greatest victims of this situation in the Channel Tunnel. Because of the reduction in transit through the Tunnel, we do not have a mere three services a night – we have none, because the service from Scotland to the continent has been withdrawn completely. As Mr MacCormick said, it is no longer possible to transport Scotch whisky to the Continent or to send our microcircuits to Paris, Frankfurt or Milan. But more than that: it is no longer possible for us to import parts and continental products by train. Costs for both exports and imports are increasing, as are road congestion and pollution. A service which did something to bring Scotland closer to the golden triangle of Europe has been lost, and so Scotland returns to the periphery. This is a tragedy, and why? Because we seem incapable of organising our immigration systems on a European basis and of providing adequate security to ensure that any such arrangement works. Clearly there are faults on the French side of  and on the English side of the English Channel, but the victims are my constituents – hundreds of miles from Dover and Calais – in Scotland. I call upon the UK government to resolve its immigration system, in collaboration with its neighbours, so that it does not attract tens of thousands of desperate people. It is surely not coincidental that the UK is one of the only European countries without identity cards. I call upon the French authorities, from their old allies of the Auld Alliance, their Scottish cousins, to enforce real security at their end of the Tunnel so that the rail freight service to and from Scotland can be resumed. I call upon the Commissioner and the Commission to knock all their heads together urgently in order to reach a solution to this absurd state of affairs. – Mr President, what exactly does the Commission consider to be defined, and I quote from the question, as 'industrial animal-husbandry systems'. Would it not be unreasonable to discourage developing countries from employing modern, efficient, cost-effective and humane systems of animal husbandry? – Mr President, regrettably this directive was not referred to the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. The proposed directive 'on setting standards of quality and safety for the donation, procurement, testing, storage and distribution of human tissues and cells' is a very important piece of legislation and much to be welcomed. I rehearsed the full title of this directive because it is important to recognise what it does encompass and what it does not encompass. Specifically, recital 6 states: 'this Directive does not cover research using human tissues and cells'. It is a public health measure under Article 152 of the Treaty. Unfortunately, and quite unacceptably, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy's Amendment 7 proposes to change recital 6 to: 'this directive also covers research using human tissues and cells'. In similar vein, its Amendment 19 to Article 2(1), proposes to delete the limiting phrase 'for application to the human body', thus opening the directive's full provisions to research in laboratories, or even school rooms, where no application to the human body is involved. I do not have time to go into all the other problems with this report. There are technical difficulties concerned with consent by donors, and anonymity of donors. There are highly questionable forays into areas of ethics which are irrelevant for the purpose and legal basis of this directive. Even the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has seen fit to insert the legally undefinable term 'fundamental ethical principles' into what purports to be a legal legislative text. Very importantly, there are attempts to impose European prohibitions on ethical aspects of research and therapy which are clearly the subject of the subsidiarity principle and which it must remain the right of Member States to decide. I have the greatest regard for my colleague, Mr Liese, and I accept his assurances that he tried to maintain a balanced approach to this subject. Unfortunately, the result contains many unacceptable points. Only if these are eliminated between now and the final vote will it be possible for me to support his report. – The European Union has a lot more than just the ability to send investigative parties, have discussions, make recommendations and so forth. In the case of Egypt, as has already been said, we have the European-Mediterranean programmes and association agreements. In the case of China we have very many major trading arrangements and, potentially, their accession to the WTO. Could we not use our power, our muscle, in order to achieve our human rights objectives and not just go on talking and talking without seeing any results? Commissioner, I join Mr MacCormick in thanking you for your direct answer. He and I have been passing information week after week to you and your colleagues but have found there to be a rather roundabout relationship between you for aquaculture, Mr Monti for competition policy and Mr Lamy for trade, which makes life very difficult. Can I ask the three of you to join forces and work in a joined-up way, in order to prosecute this particular problem with the utmost urgency? The life is being squeezed out of our constituents in Scotland. – Mr President, I refer to the common position on Directive 1998/242 and the capital requirements that it will impose on investment management firms. In Scotland, there is a long tradition of investment management going back to the opening of the American west in the 19th century. These investment managers were usually law firms, private partnerships, which managed the assets of their clients very successfully. To this day, there are investment firms of this type, private partnerships, sole proprietorships and other structures with limited capital. The interests of clients are fully safeguarded as their assets are held by independent and fully capitalised and regulated depositories. It is largely irrelevant to set capital requirements on the investment management firms themselves. I am relieved that the Council has reduced slightly the capital requirements set by this Parliament at first reading and has set a top limit of EUR 10 million. But this is still substantial for private partnerships and sole proprietorships. Incidentally, the largest and most successful firms in America and in the world – Fidelity is a good example – are exactly of this type. The requirements of this type will be a hurdle for new enterprising entrants into an industry which requires a regular injection of new blood. At the very least, it should provide for this capital to be available by means of guarantees from banks or by insurance policies to cover professional and operational risk. But the common position, for some not very apparent reason, restricts such cover to only 50% of the requirement. Why? The common position provides for the Commission to report on this matter within five years of entry into force of the directive. I should like to put on record now the request that such a report should specifically consider whether any capital requirement at all is necessary for investment management companies, and certainly that it should be greatly reduced. – Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report that provides a framework for the framework. I would like to fill in an important piece of detail within the framework. The oft-recited Lisbon Summit sets the overall objective of "making the European Union the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world". The biotechnology industry can make a major contribution to achieving this ambition. It is therefore vital that research in the life sciences is given the highest priority in the European Research Area. At present there is much despondency, even despair in certain areas of research. We are seeing moratoria on crop trials and new product approvals; deliberate damage to trial crops; delays in transposing essential legislation; verbal and even physical attacks on healthcare researchers; environmental scare-stories that are unfounded and unsubstantiated; harassment of researchers – even threats to life by animal liberation extremists; and the use of emotive and inaccurate terms such as "Frankenstein foods" by antagonistic spokesmen and in the media. All these pressures, often exacerbated by weak responses by governments and public bodies, are threatening our ability in Europe to realise the great potential which biotechnology offers us. Certainly, a reasonable level of regulation is necessary but this must be directed towards encouraging rather than discouraging advances. Only within such a positive environment will it be possible to realise this potential and be competitive in the industries of the future, in the agriculture of the future, in the highest standards of healthcare, in our contribution to third world development and the elimination of starvation and disease. . – Mr President, we live in exciting times. In our own lifetimes there have been massive and amazing advances in science and technology. New industries have appeared, become commonplace, and have provided a better quality of life, higher standards of living, new and better jobs and better working conditions. For Europe to keep its position in the economic forefront globally and to provide the standards we have come to expect, it has been essential for us to grasp these new technologies. Biotechnology is yet another of these industries. We ignore or side-step it at our peril. Like all new technologies, there are bound to be concerns: environmental, ethical and safety concerns. They must be fully and very openly discussed and studied with the public; they must be monitored and safeguarded by effective regulation. Issues such as privacy and confidentiality in an era of genetic predictions require further study and perhaps specific legislation. We signal this need in the report and take no predetermined position. This is for later, after proper debate. I would suggest that Amendments Nos 9 and 27 are premature in that they seek to close off such consideration and decision. It is incumbent on us to encourage our scientists, entrepreneurs and business managers to take full advantage of the potential of biotechnology and bring this potential to the people of Europe and to the world, especially the less well-provided developing world. Biotechnology – the life and plant sciences which it encompasses – offers major advances in medicines and health care, to prevent and cure diseases and disabilities which for so long have blighted the lives of so many men, women and children in our constituencies and world-wide. Biotechnology offers major advances in the production of food in Europe to the advantage of farmers and consumers alike and benefits those parts of the world which struggle against drought and saline soils and fast-increasing populations. It offers crops that eliminate vitamin A deficiency and blindness for millions. It will use fewer pesticides and herbicides and therefore improve the environment and natural habitats. With valuable opinions from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural and Development and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, for which I sincerely thank their draftsmen, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has considered all the implications and decisively calls for us in Parliament, the Commission, the Council and the Member State governments to give this industry the support and commitment which it deserves and so badly needs. Following several years of reticence and indecision, we are well behind our main competitors in the USA. American R[amp]D expenditure on biotechnology is three-and-a-half times that of Europe, employment is over three times and biotech revenues four times. It is not only the USA: Brazil, Canada, China, India, Israel, Japan, Thailand, Singapore are all embracing biotechnology and actively promoting their indigenous industries. There is no time to lose if Europe is to take its proper place. We have the scientists, the research establishments and the scientific capability. We have the basis of a successful industry, with entrepreneurs, investors and business managers. But, for too long, these have been discouraged by negative and sceptical attitudes in government and political circles, public opinion and the media, by unsympathetic fiscal regimes, by a risk-averse culture and cumbersome legal structures. The Lisbon Council promised to make Europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. Now we look to the Stockholm Council to fulfil that promise on biotechnology, which is precisely one of the most important means for reaching that much-quoted target. We look to the Commission to rouse itself, to shed its reticence and give a resolute lead with a bio-Europe action plan. We look to the Member States to get on with the job of implementing the outstanding directives and providing the positive environment for their biotech industries to develop and prosper. Our scientists and entrepreneurs are watching intently. What happens here today, in Stockholm this month, in Brussels and the Member States in the next few months, will decide whether they emigrate elsewhere or seek their futures here in Europe. I ask my colleagues in Parliament to give this report their full support. I ask the Commission to respond to it with vigour, determination and singleness of purpose. .  With regard to paragraph 27, I agree with the Socialist and Liberal Groups that we should replace the words 'high capital' with 'appropriate capital' and take out the last few words: 'as has happened during the various crises, including in the case of the LTCM crisis.' – Will the Commissioner advise me whether these policemen will be, or can be, armed and what their terms of engagement might be? – Mr President, biotechnology is at the heart of the Lisbon process to make Europe the world's most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy. In line with this ambition, biotech is top priority in the sixth framework research programme which we approved only recently. Advances in crop biotechnology promise major benefits for our environment and consumers. If, for a moment, we can give thought to the interests of others, they will be of incalculable benefit to those who are hungry or suffer blindness and disease in the third world. It is therefore shameful that we bow down to the destructive agenda of Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace, who are intent on bamboozling the public with unjustified scare stories. Clearly, their purpose is to prevent all advance in this area of great scientific promise, for that is what these present texts from the Trakatellis and Scheele reports would mean. The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy understood these implications for industry, our farmers, our international trade relations, our scientific community and, yes, for our consumers. It voted for a GM free and virtually GM-free labelling system which would be readily workable and much less bureaucratic and more consistent with consumer wishes for simple and straightforward information – much more straightforward than the present Commission proposal, let alone the absurd texts before us. Certain Member States also would much prefer this solution. I ask the Commission to bear in mind, when it comes to codecision, that this option has support in Parliament. If it genuinely stands by its biotechnology action plan, it should give this option more consideration. Indeed, I call on the Commission this afternoon to state that this option could still be open. – Mr President, first of all I must declare a personal interest, I have a son-in-law who was, and is, a refugee from the Krajina in Croatia. Even if it is now technically possible to return, much more has to be done to make the return of Serbs to Croatia and the Krajina in particular positively welcome. Much physical restoration is required in that sad part of Croatia. We in the European Union must insist that this is positively encouraged and not just a nominal gesture. Our financial contributions should be on that condition and I would appreciate a reassurance from the Commission that this aspect will be taken into account. My second point refers to Serbia itself. Even if there is the happy, democratic outcome, which we hope for in Serbia, there will still be great resentment resulting from what happened with the Kosovo campaign and our recent relationships with Serbia. This will not be overcome immediately. We in Europe must be prepared to rise above any peevish reactions to those sentiments. The top priority, not just for Serbia but for all the Balkans including Bulgaria and Romania, is to restore normal transport links in the whole area and bring Serbia with all its hurts back into the European fold. Mr Nielson, there was a long debate about this earlier this morning and you must accept that there is very little time between now and 1 July 2004 for all ships and ports to comply with the requirements of the ISPS Code, especially with the lack of total clarity at the moment. The financial risk to businesses that cannot comply with the code is enormous. What about flags other than European flags? Even if our own Member States comply, could there not be a substantial risk that many other ships will not be complying by then and will not therefore be allowed into European ports? Has the Commission tried to make any assessment of the impact on European and even world trade if there is not full compliance by 1 July 2004? – Mr President, the Parliament's committees on which I sit have in the last few days made important progress with legislation on both financial services and energy market liberalisation. It will be tragic if the European Council cannot also match Europe's urgent needs and their own rhetoric at Lisbon and bring this area of legislation to completion and soon. Beyond this, I stress the critical importance of research and development and innovation to the future of Europe. Mr Prodi highlighted this policy area and said quite rightly there is no reason why Europe should not lead the world in biotechnology, which is undoubtedly going to be the leading area of science and industry, of employment and improved quality of life for the next few decades. And yet, what do we have? Bickering over the Community patent, moratoria and antagonisms, procedural obstacles which have forestalled all progress in genetically modified crops and a tremendous promise they offer to us in Europe and the developing world especially. What do we have? Over-complex and expensive approval procedures and patenting processes for new products in healthcare and pharmaceuticals. We cannot afford to lose our best scientists to our competitors where they are better appreciated, given scope to realise their ambitions and are suitably rewarded. We are already two years past Lisbon, there are only eight more years to 2010 when we are to be the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world. Action will speak louder than words, Mr President-in-Council, there is little or no time to lose. – I certainly accept that there is a place for social policy in these more extreme situations. However, there is a risk of taking it too far. Would the Commissioner not agree that the most important thing for the European economy, in order to provide the social benefits that we would all like to have, is for it to be allowed to develop without millstones round its neck of excessive social commitments and problems? If we are to compete in the global economy, as this question asks, there should be a measured level of social support and policy and not an extreme binding of our businesses and our economies by social requirements. – Mr President, I should like to ask a bit more about this forum. How big is it? How often will it meet? Where will it meet? How much will it cost? Who is going to pay for it? Can you fill out the detail? I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he could confirm that the moratorium on research into using embryonic stem cells is about to be lifted, and that the Commission will be prepared to consider, and potentially fund, applications for research involving embryonic stem cells on the basis of Parliament's resolution of 19 November 2003, which he mentioned. On a point of order, this may well delay other questions: Mr Zacharakis was not here when his question was called and, according to the rules of the House, it should lapse. Mr Bolkestein and Mr Byrne will each speak for 20 minutes and we have to finish before 7 o'clock, so I would ask you to continue, as the rules require, with Mr Bolkestein's section. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he agrees with the President of the United States of America that perhaps Europe's position on trade in genetically modified crops is having an effect on our trade with the southern African countries in agricultural products, thereby affecting their ability to feed themselves? – Mr President, my father, Robert Purvis, is 90 and not too well just now. He is much of the reason why I am here – an MEP, a Scotsman, a European. In the early 1930s he spent much time in Germany. He had good German friends. He witnessed and worried about the rise of Nazism. While I was very small he was away for long periods, parachuted into southern Serbia to support the brave fight of the royalist Serbs against Nazism. Next he parachuted into the Hautes-Alpes of France to fight with the Maquis and prepare that part of Europe for liberation. I have photographs of him as the tricolour was raised anew in Mont-Dauphin and Briançon. Immediately after the war he went back to Germany to help restore agriculture and food supplies in North Rhine-Westphalia, Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein. My brother and I joined him there. We played in the rubble of Hamburg, we made good German friends in our turn. On my first day in this Parliament, in 1979, one of our then German colleagues approached me. "Are you Purvis?" "Yes." "I remember rocking you on my knee in your kilt in Hamburg in 1946. We so respected your father," he said. "He could have taken advantage of us but he didn't. He did all he could fairly to share out scarce resources and restore our country." Father is in his 90s. I am in my 60s, my children in their 30s, my grandchildren between 0 and 5 – four generations of a Scottish and a European family. It is this European Union, this Parliament, that are our families' guarantee that the peace and security for which my father has fought and worked in his lifetime will indeed continue for future generations – the solidarity of generations. – The Industry Committee accepts the desirability of moving to zero sulphur in petrol and diesel. The hotter burn of modern vehicle engines delivers higher efficiency and thereby cuts CO2 emissions. However, the resulting increase in nitrogen oxide has to be dealt with by catalysts and the virtual elimination of sulphur renders the catalysts effective in dealing with these. A further benefit is a reduction in the emission of particulates, so the Industry Committee is in favour of the Commission proposal. A majority vote in the committee demanded a rather faster implementation than the Commission proposed even if some of us were concerned at the Commission's assertion that this will, in fact, produce a net increase in CO2 emissions. So please tell us, Commissioner, if you stand by your warning or whether you can accept the quicker implementation requested by both the Environment and the Industry Committees. We would also point out that the EU standard of 10 parts per million of sulphur contrasts with an American standard of 15 ppm of sulphur. This will make it difficult for us to import fuels from the USA in an emergency. We would also suggest that the Commission instigate research into the implications of ultra-fine particle emissions from gasoline diesel injection engines. The question of fuel quality for non-road and off-road machinery is still outstanding. We understand that proposals on this matter will be forthcoming in 2002. This is surely urgently needed but we urge the Commission to give full consideration to the interests of those in industry and agriculture who operate such machinery. We give this proposal a fair wind. Indeed, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy would suggest that the Commission hoists a spinnaker and speeds up its implementation. Is the Commissioner prepared to accede to this demand? – Mr President, on a point of order. I attend Question Time nearly every time and every time the first question or two are from our colleagues in the Greek Communists and, in particular, Mr Alavanos. You will notice that the date on this question is 30 March 2000, which was two weeks before the last part-session. Therefore, in my view, it should not have been number one on the list but should have been on the last part-session’s list of questions. There seems to be some system whereby Mr Alavanos and his colleagues always get the first and second questions, and they always attack Turkey. I should like you to investigate why this should be. – Mr President, while Mrs Thors was speaking the Commissioner was interrupted by two different people, so he was not paying attention to what she asked and what she said. It was vitally important to me, as someone trying to learn from this debate, to ascertain the facts of the situation. I was very interested in what Mr Rothley and Mrs Thors said as to whether we should even be discussing this issue in this Chamber. But Mr Nielson was otherwise distracted. I would hope that he gives us a proper response when his turn comes to speak. – This aid is very laudable on the one hand, but, could it not also be letting the Indonesian Government off the hook; and should we really not use the political and economic strength of the European Union to force the Indonesian Government to look after its own citizens, especially this Christian minority? – Mr President, I would first of all like to congratulate Mrs Ayuso González on the efforts she has made to achieve this successful outcome of a compromise. Even if she is not wholly satisfied with it, I think she has done a splendid job. It is just as well that we do not have mandatory requirements but I think that, given goodwill on all sides, we will see some progress in the application of biofuels. With the European Union already importing 50% of its energy needs and this rising to 70% by 2030, it is important that we exploit all possible indigenous resources of energy as well as promoting greater diversity of energy sources. By developing biofuels and other renewable energies we are contributing to increased security of supply. In my constituency in Scotland, we have the materials and the know-how to be able to develop this industry and are eager to put these proposals into action. We are also hoping to improve our environment with better air quality and a reduction in greenhouse gases. In the blending of biofuels into conventional transport fuel we can introduce these changes in a simple way that will not require vehicles or filling stations to be adapted. Biofuels also promise to create new jobs in rural communities through crop production and in the construction and operation of processing plants. This will provide a well-needed boost to the flagging rural economies. But biofuels remain uncompetitive without significant government tax breaks. A 50% reduction in tax to match conventional fuel prices will mean subtracting a hefty chunk from Member State exchequers. How many of our governments are prepared to lose this revenue? We are also concerned that the proposals as they stand will not necessarily result in any major real environmental benefits: production methods for most biofuels use substantial amounts of energy and create high carbon dioxide emissions. We may also see higher inputs of chemical fertilisers and pesticides. Member States must decide to promote biofuels that give an overall cost-effective benefit to the environment. Most importantly we must also invest in research to improve the cost effectiveness and environmental benefits of biofuel crops in the future. – I have been up in my room just now, and it is little surprising that Fridays are so devalued. The television technicians have gone home, so the television pictures are of the Assembly and no longer of the original speakers. The staff are apparently running for the exits from 9 a.m. on Friday mornings, so it is hardly surprising that Fridays are being devalued. I would ask you to check that the whole service of Parliament is available so long as the House is sitting. – Mr President, the Seattle demonstrators argued that free trade is bad for the less- and least-developed countries, it is purely a rich country selfish interest. Yet we might consider the rate of economic progress and the rate of eliminating poverty in countries such as India and Tanzania over the 40 or 50 years since they became independent. There the theory went that protectionism and state intervention would preserve jobs, allow industry to adjust gradually and without pain. It did not work; poverty became worse than ever. The medicine may not taste too good in the short term, but opening one’s economy to competition at home and abroad forces optimal application of resources and leads to a higher standard and quality of life in the not so longer term. Is that not the lesson of the European Union itself and of the single market in particular? As Mr Nielson said, this is a fine example to those countries and regions aspiring to greater prosperity. Yet preaching the benefits of free trade to the developing countries is not enough. We also have to practise what we preach in our own accessibility for imports from these countries. Parliament’s resolution on the WTO negotiations advocated a free import policy by the EU. Eliminating all remaining barriers to imports, tariff barriers and quotas and, just as important, non-tariff barriers, such as Mrs Maij-Weggen mentioned in her speech – eliminating these barriers would do more than any amount of development aid to secure for developing countries the economic progress which both we and they desire. It is quite clear that a lack of coherence of development policy with trade policy diminishes our development efforts and must also diminish the political regard of the developing countries for Europe and our fine words. Mr President, Mr Langen has done European enterprise a great service in his report. He will have my full support, but what we need most of all, if Europe is to provide the environment which will foster entrepreneurship, is a complete change in attitudes to success and to failure. In America, the down-and-out who passes by the tycoon's lavish mansion will aspire to match him. In Europe he would probably pass snide comments or call on the government to tax him out of business. Envy and disparagement are the enemy of success and of a successful enterprise economy. In America, the entrepreneur who fails will be given credit for trying and gaining experience for the next time. The bankrupt will be helped to recover his self-esteem and the determination to try again. In Europe, he would be abandoned in legal and financial limbo. He will be pilloried and shamed, his chances of a second try constrained. Seldom will the innovator, the inventor or the enterprising individual possess all the necessary financial means and business skills which are necessary for full and enduring success. This is where the business angel, the friendly adviser, the non-executive director become essential. That is why I am particularly pleased that paragraph 34 of Mr Langen's report highlights the role of business angels. That is why I ask the whole of Parliament for its support for Amendment 7, which expresses our concern at the tendency to persecute non-executive directors who are such an essential ingredient in a successful enterprise. Let us be forgiving of honest failure. Let us encourage that first try, that second try, the will to keep on trying. Let us praise success and be pleased to see the rewards of success in our most enterprising fellow citizens. Only then will we achieve a true enterprise culture in Europe. – The  came to the conclusion that the shift by Mr Bush to declare these steel tariffs in March, followed by his agricultural subsidies and his protectionism on timber with Canada, was the turning-point from being a free-trade regime to a protectionist, America-first regime. Would you think this is the case or are your friend, Mr Zoellick, and Mr Bush still genuinely free trade? – Mr President, Mr Linkohr's report is much to be welcomed. It is a balanced report with workable suggestions on how to improve the intermittently precarious oil supply situation. That it is precarious can be seen from the spike in prices which occurred last autumn, or as is occurring now with Iraq's decision to stop oil exports. It is precarious because we depend on supplies of oil from unstable parts of the world. It is intermittent because these crises endure for relatively short periods as market forces come to bear and rectify the situation. Indeed the volatility of oil prices, ranging in the last 18 months from USD 10 to 34 per barrel, is as much a problem for the suppliers as it is for the consumers. This gives us an opportunity, because stable prices are of interest both to us in Europe and to the oil supplier countries. We should make a much more consistent effort to develop a dialogue with the oil supplier countries, with the Middle East, with Russia, with the Caspian and Caucasus countries and with West Africa. This dialogue must not just be pursued when there is a shortage, or when there is a seller's market, or when it is in our interest. It must be pursued also when the boot is on our foot, when there is a glut and a buyer's market. As a practical example, Europe should encourage and facilitate the construction of oil and gas pipelines from these places to the heartland of Europe. Nor should we overlook the potential of our indigenous oilfields, notably those in my Scottish constituency. Research and investment and improved recovery techniques have already extended the life and productivity of the North Sea and continental shelf oilfields. But more can still be done. We must also pursue opportunities for saving energy, above all in the transport sector. Yes, we must do what we can to promote renewable and alternative energies. But we cannot share Mr Linkohr's enthusiasm for harmonising tax rates and using harmonised tax, applied at European level, and the manipulation of strategic oil reserves to regulate oil prices. Tax rates are for the Member States to set and clearly they are quite unwilling to sign up to the long-delayed directive on taxation of energy products. Taxes on energy should be set in the context of an open competitive European market which, in itself, will ensure that fuel costs are not too far out of line from one country to the next. We cannot afford to hobble our economies, our industries and those who live and work in our rural and remoter regions. Yes, oil supply is a matter which has to concern us. The Commission's communication and Mr Linkohr's report are valuable contributions to understanding the problem and defining possible solutions. If we can succeed in amending the few unacceptable aspects that I have detailed, this group will be pleased to support Mr Linkohr's report. – Mr President, I too would like to welcome Mr Lemierre and his colleagues to Parliament. His speech gave us a feeling that there is a combination of idealism, and also very considerable practicality, in the way they approach their job. I would also like to congratulate Mr Markov on his report. He has devoted much care, conscientious effort and good sense to assessing the role and performance of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. His comments are measured and are a positive contribution to the EBRD's future. I recently read in the press the title 'The little-known EBRD'. Perhaps relative to its early days it is quite pleased to have that sobriquet, but if that is indeed the case, it is time that the EBRD became a lot better known. Perhaps this exposure in Parliament will help in that direction. This is the first time, as has already been said, that Parliament has reported on the bank, even though the majority of its capital and votes are held by EU Member States and EU institutions, even though it has played, and continues to play, a vital role in helping many of the accession states to develop their economies and political institutions to the standards which their people seek, and which will permit them a smooth entrance into the European Union family. That is not all. The EBRD is also making a critical contribution to the countries which will border the enlarged European Union. It is of considerable interest that last November the EBRD announced a new strategy for its Russian operations which will extend its work into the regions of Russia, away from Moscow and St Petersburg, and help diversify the Russian economy so that it is no longer over-dependent on natural resources. The EBRD is the largest single foreign investor in Russia, and Russia is the largest country in its portfolio. Also of concern to us in the European Union is the work done by the bank in Yugoslavia, and the former republics of Yugoslavia and the Balkans. It is critical to the peace and security of our continent that these countries be assisted to reach a state of economic and political stability from which they too can advance to membership of the European Union in due course. In its objectives the EBRD is unique for such an institution, in that it not only aims to provide for economic progress, but also has a very specific duty to help its client countries develop a democratic culture and the necessary democratic institutions and procedures. The monitoring and measurement of its success must therefore take into account how far it has achieved its aims, both economic and democratic. It is difficult to be other than impressed by the EBRD's track record. The PPE-DE Group will be supporting Mr Markov's report as it stands. We will vote against all but two of the amendments which have been tabled, as they do nothing to enhance the report. The exceptions concern the newly launched public information policy, which we welcome. We will therefore support Amendments 2 and 4, which also welcome and encourage a more open and transparent approach. Hopefully, the next time Parliament drafts a report on the EBRD, it will be to welcome the continuing success of a well-known and widely esteemed institution. I wish the EBRD, its President, Mr Lemierre, its staff and its clients continuing success in 2003 and in the longer-term future. Their success is vitally important to us all. .  Mr President, on paragraph 3 I have agreed a compromise amendment with the PSE and ELDR Groups, as well as my own Group, to add the following after the words 'the retail investor': 'when the different regulatory authorities at European level recommend it is appropriate'. Commissioner, the word 'hope' appeared several times in your initial response. There seemed to be a certain amount of 'hope' rather than 'expectation'. Could you give your estimation as to what you think we can get from Syria as regards its relationship with Lebanon as well as its occupation of that country and its support for Hizbollah? – Mr President, I am pleased that the Liberal amendments were defeated and that I was therefore able to vote for this report but I would like to query one point made by Mr Busquin. He said that everyone working in Italian universities has to pass the same exams as Italian teachers have to pass. I do not see why that should be the case. We are supposed to have mutual recognition of qualifications across Europe so that you can qualify in your own country and then move to others. That is a basic issue in Mr Busquin's response which needs to be questioned and I am sorry to see that he has now left the Chamber. .  Madam President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his considered views and I hope, even if he defers to his expert panels, that he will take into account the fact that this area most probably deserves legislation in the future. I shall run through the main reasons for our view of this. The first hedge fund was established back in 1949 and, as of now, assets under management globally are estimated at some EUR 600 billion. Of these, about 15%, or EUR 90 billion, are managed from Europe. Even if European investment managers manage them, most of them are still domiciled in offshore tax and regulatory havens. There has been a huge increase in interest in this type of investment in recent years, especially in the United States, where affluent and moderately affluent investors have discovered them. Many institutional investors now find it acceptable to invest in this way. This interest has now spread to Europe, especially as many of these funds, because of their willingness to sell short and leverage their results, have performed well in absolute terms over the last three years of negative stock market performance. The media has picked up on this, and such performances are featured in the personal finance sections of the newspapers. As a result there is some concern that less and less sophisticated investors will be tempted to entrust their savings to risky offshore hedge funds by one means or another. Even if most of these are perfectly respectable, well-administered and managed, there is only very basic regulatory control. EU regulators are concerned about the risks that may be run, while the investment industry is attracted by the commercial opportunities of tapping into this trend. We consider that it is an opportune time to introduce an appropriately light-handed regime in the European Union that will attract those funds to set up within European jurisdictions. This view is further strengthened by the initiatives of certain Member States, which have introduced or are considering introducing such facilitating regimes at the national level. Ireland, Germany and Luxembourg are three such examples. Another matter of concern in the context of our attempts to produce a single European capital and investment market, is that some Member States impose fiscal or regulatory conditions which discriminate against investment into such funds in other Member States. We therefore propose that a distinct light-handed regime be established which can accommodate the characteristics of hedge funds – and also, incidentally, other alternative investment vehicles which currently lack a suitable legal home at an EU level. We are looking for an arrangement which can provide these vehicles with an EU passport on the basis of mutual recognition. These funds invest in areas such as property, currencies and commodities. Clearly these investments are not appropriate for everyone, at least until their awareness of the risks they carry are fully understood and appreciated. For this reason, we stress the absolute necessity of education, of clear and straightforward information and of strict regulatory control of those who sell and distribute such products. There is no reason to deny European citizens access to these interesting investment opportunities, but we feel their interests will be better safeguarded if these are available within EU jurisdictions and are subject to appropriate regulation. They will also provide opportunities for our European investment professionals to enhance their skills and build high-value businesses and jobs. Capital will also be attracted to our businesses and industries here in Europe, rather than in America and other parts of the world. A separate section of my report is devoted to derivatives. These are widely used in both mainstream business and industry and in the investment world. While they are often vilified as high-risk speculative instruments, in fact, they can just as readily be applied – and are – in order to limit and reduce risk. We have identified two main issues – Mr Bolkestein identified three – which deserve attention. Systemic risks to the world's financial system could possibly occur because we have little or no way of quantifying the full extent of exposure. This applies especially to specialised derivatives which are dealt over the counter and tend to be less liquid than more conventional derivatives. This also applies to credit derivatives, whose use has exploded, as banks offload – for capital adequacy reasons – their assets onto non-banks including, incidentally, hedge funds. We therefore call on the Commission, and the various international institutions, to develop appropriate means to measure, monitor and control such outstandings. – Mr President, in line with Lisbon and Stockholm Summit declarations and with the report of this Parliament on the future of the biotech industry, the life sciences are a top priority of the Sixth Framework Programme. This priority is upheld in Mr Caudron's excellent report. Parliament must continue to be consistent and add its support to the progress which our scientists and researchers can provide. Yet as representatives of the people of Europe, we in this Parliament must also define the limits which will provide an appropriate ethical context for this progress. Genetic research promises much in preventing and curing many of man's most dreaded hereditary diseases. But genetic engineering for this purpose must not extend into eugenics. Embryo research must not lead to the deliberate creation of embryos for research, though we may accept that early stage supernumerary embryos genuinely resulting from in-vitro fertilisation, from spontaneous miscarriages or from therapeutic abortions for the mother's health, and which are destined for destruction in any case, can legitimately and ethically be available for research in Member States where there is strict regulation and supervision. The amendment submitted by Mr Trakatellis, Mr Nisticò and myself – No 333 – seeks to restrict and define more exactly than the existing text where these limits lie. I commend it to the Parliament. – Mr President, discrimination on religious grounds is as unacceptable as any other form of discrimination. We have seen the tragic results in Northern Ireland and in the Balkans. It simmers away under the surface in several parts of our European Union. Nevertheless the spiritual dimension is a vital dimension of our European way of life. It is a clear fact of our European history that we have a large number of religions and each of those religions has various and diverse churches, denominations and trends. It is important that they should be able to uphold their beliefs. I welcome the rather obvious fact that priests and ministers can be restricted to the relevant faith without promoting accusations of illegal discrimination. But that is not enough. We must support Amendment No 37 by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which also exempts any restrictions on the religion or faith of persons who come directly into contact with members of that faith in education, social welfare or health care, for example, teachers in denominational schools, doctors and nurses in hospitals and hospices, visitors to inmates in prison, counsellors and carers for children, old people, teenagers and married couples, where these socially desirable services are provided by religious bodies. A spiritual dimension is vital to Europe. We must avoid absurd tangles of red tape, which will only succeed in reducing Europe to a purely materialistic, politically correct but pointless entity. . Conservative MEPs fully support the fight against terrorism and all the means which can be deployed to meet this end. We are aware of the fact that considerable negotiations have been underway between the European Commission and the US authorities regarding passenger information. We are satisfied that the agreement which has been reached provides the right balance between privacy and the means of protecting our lives and liberties. Whilst we understand that passengers may find this inconvenient from time to time, recent events have shown that we must all remain alert and vigilant. We are all in this fight together. . – Mr President, this is a third and, I believe also slightly unnecessary, proposal that has come from the Kingdom of Spain. It seeks to institutionalise the provision of protection for public figures. The protection of public figures is, by definition, something which should be arranged between the Member States, or other states, and in the case of visitors, between the visiting state and the host state. I found it quite odd that there also it was based only on Article 29 of the Treaty of the European Union when it seems to me that both Articles 30(1) and 34(2)(c) needed to be added. However, there is the germ of a good idea here. So I have taken the proposal and amended it in such a way as to facilitate cooperation between national intelligence, police and security services without setting up a bureaucratic institution and with no further cost. One of the problems that I had with the proposal initially, was that it seemed to want to codify or create a tariff of protection. Therefore, someone like yourself, Mr President, of supreme importance in the affairs of the European Union, would no doubt have been provided with two armoured cars filled to the gunnels with armed policemen with machine-guns, whereas a mere humble back-bencher like myself would be lucky to see one policeman walk past his house every other day. This struck me as being a slightly odd idea because, if nothing else, it would provide an absolutely perfect guide to a would-be assassin, as to what he was likely to come up against. So I removed all that. However, there is, as I still say, the essential point and what I have added to it is that there should be cooperation and some kind of harmonisation, not only of the protection that is afforded, but the response mechanism in the event of such a tragedy, or an attempt being made. There are a number of institutions ranging from the SAS in Britain through the German border guards, the excellent military police in Spain and Italy and other countries, who, since the tragic events of the Munich Olympics, have acquired a great expertise in the response. It seemed to me madness to leave the response element of this problem out of the question. On the issue of shared information, I think that the information should be shared on a need-to-know basis and, above all, should be kept away from politicians, bureaucrats and even the people who are being protected themselves, because operational security in this area must be paramount. Nor should there be any extra levels of decision-making that could interfere with operational effectiveness. Knowing how long it sometimes takes for all the institutions of the Union to arrive at a decision, the thought of introducing another tier between the attempt on your life, Mr President, and the response by the policeman, and it would have to pass through several committees, I hope sends a shiver down your back. Finally, the other important thing that I have added is that any sharing of information must be subject to the principles of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. This is an area in which information would be shared on known threats, known possible suspects but, nevertheless, we have to make absolutely certain that fundamental rights are maintained. That said, I hope that the House will be sufficiently impressed to know that my amendments were the only ones that went before the Committee. They were passed unanimously without any votes against, which I understand may be a rare if not unique event. – Mr President, you will not be surprised that, as a British Conservative, I am going to sound a slightly discordant note in these otherwise harmonious proceedings. I agree that it is right that all the institutions of the EU should observe the same standard norms, but I am still less convinced that such legal constraints need to be included in the Convention. I also feel that they should not be enforceable by the EU on Member States beyond the present commitment represented by their signatures on the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. They should not apply to private companies, individuals or organisations, nor should they cover matters of social affairs, employment or cultural policy. We are being presented with a vehicle filled with good intentions. However, I fear we are also opening up a nightmare of duality in the appeal, on the one hand, the European Court of Human Rights and, on the other, the European Court of Justice. We have cases changing from one to the other, profiting only the lawyers. I am sorry for those of my colleagues who are distinguished lawyers, I do not wish them any diminution in their profits, but this is not something we should encourage. Recital V shows that this is already happening. The prospect of conflicting authorities being announced in the two courts is bureaucratically intolerable and a judicial nightmare. Paragraph 2 also concerns me. The Charter must bind the Commission, the Council, Parliament and the Committee of the Regions, but should it be a 'central reference point for the European Court of Justice and national courts'? No, it should not be a central reference point of national courts. This is another indication of the potential for confusion. This confusion must be sorted out before this report is adopted. I urge Parliament to reject this report and allow the committee to resolve it. – Mr President, while I congratulate the rapporteurs on their work I fear that, as the road to hell is paved with good intentions, so it is with this Charter. The nations of Europe can be proud of their record on human rights; however, have they needed charters? Britain led the world in the battle to abolish slavery, but the only Charter – actually so called – which we have ever had in Britain was signed at Runnymede by King John in 1215. Of course, there are exceptions, exceptions so serious that Europe has a responsibility to do what it can to ensure that the inhumanities and atrocities of the past are never repeated. But does this Charter add to what we already have? Does it add to or replace the Convention on Human Rights to which all EU Member States and applicant states are signatories, or does it just add another judicial forum, leaving lawyers with the happy and profitable choice between the European Court and the Court of Human Rights? Why not a simple declaration of human rights under Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty without the need for a charter for litigation? Can fundamental rights properly be protected by a court which is already overstretched and frequently arrives at its judgments long after the events which it is judging? Does this Charter simply aim to be an expensive distributor of compensation in the dreadful fullness of time? Ensuring fundamental human rights is the best of intentions, but a charter for litigation and bureaucracy is surely another road to another hell. Mr President, 'top that!' is a saying in England. The Ombudsman has covered my report in as much detail as I could cover it. However, I have one or two points. It is a great pleasure to see the previous Ombudsman, Mr Söderman, in the official gallery. He was enormously helpful in the preparation of my report, as was his successor. Some of the recommendations that I make at the end under the subheading 'Where to from here?' were produced as a distillation of their wisdom, and perhaps my nerve. It has been a remarkable achievement by the previous Ombudsman to have placed the role so firmly in the consciousness and on the map of administration. I am very pleased to learn that after repeated requests, both by the Committee on Petitions and others, that the Commission is now considering very seriously that it will sign up to the Code of Good Administrative Behaviour. Mr Diamandouros has already reported to me that speed seems to be gathering and that something might be achieved by 2005. He has no doubt been cracking the whip behind the Commission very hard indeed. There are, however, one or two other points I would like to endorse. The investigative role of the Ombudsman in conjunction with Parliament is very important. There are frequently issues which emerge not only from a complaint or, in some cases, from a petition to the Petitions Committee, but there are more general points which need to be looked at. I would welcome an extension of the powers of the Ombudsman and an extension of cooperation, not just with the Petitions Committee, but with other areas of the European Parliament. It is also encouraging that the Ombudsman has initiated the establishment of, and continues to work with, national and regional ombudsmen. If I remember rightly, he will be holding a conference in the next couple of years in which he will be bringing the threads together so that European citizens have some commonality of approach to ombudsmen, whether at regional, national or European level. I would urge him, if possible, to have at least one member of the Petitions Committee attend that conference, so that there is continuity – a seamless approach. We all know how easy it is for matters of importance to individual citizens to fall into the gap between one department, commission or directorate and another. One of the jobs that this Parliament must do in conjunction with the Ombudsman is to ensure that those gaps are as small as possible and as few issues fall into them as we can manage. It has also been important in developing the relationship with the citizens of the new Member States. We forget, perhaps, how familiar we have become as citizens with many of the institutions and how familiar we are with some of the mechanisms. The figures that the Ombudsman quoted show that the European citizen has become very aware of the institutions. However, this is not necessarily the case in the new Member States. Therefore, perhaps we should concentrate our resources and our efforts into bringing their level of awareness and understanding up to that of the rest of the European citizens. Once again, I should like to thank Mr Söderman. He was unfailingly courteous to me and, on more than one occasion, showed he had not only a great grasp of his subjects but also perhaps a slightly atypical sense of humour when dealing with the results. I would like to commend this report to the House, and thank the present Ombudsman for his kind words. – Mr President, I was privileged to visit Lebanon for the first time some 20 years ago as a journalist, and have followed the unhappy events in that country over the years. It was the occasion when the Palestinians were expelled from Jordan by King Hussein and swept into the Lebanon, destroying what had been up till then a haven of relative peace and civilisation in the Middle East. It had, from the point of view of the visitor, whether a journalist or a tourist, three great advantages: the charm of the Lebanese people, the fact that the electricity and water had been put in by the British and that the cuisine had been installed largely by the French. On my most recent visit there I was encouraged to see that those three great traditions are reasserting themselves in the rebuilding of that country. It is, as the Commissioner has said, undergoing this process of rebuilding in possibly the most difficult times, especially from the economic point of view. But I am confident, as are many other Members of this House who know the Lebanon well, that the energy and the determination of the Lebanese people will win through. They have survived the past in an extraordinary fashion and remained civilised and perennially charming. It is very important that we maintain the closest links, as the previous speaker mentioned. The francophone connection is only one of many which we have between the members of the European Union and the rest of the Middle East. The Lebanon is a focal point from which we can operate and through which we can operate. I look forward in the not too distant future to returning to Beirut, a city of which I have the fondest memories, but also to welcoming more people from the Lebanon, especially parliamentarians, here. We can do so much by example that it is important for this House to maintain these links. Finally, I would point out that it was always through the Lebanon that many of the contacts were made with the other Middle Eastern countries. With the tensions that we have in the Middle East at the moment, it is essential for us to maintain those links, especially for the Commissioner who, no doubt, has fallen in love with the Lebanon in the same way as many of us have, and for the Commissioner to be able to use the Lebanon as a bridge through which he can talk to sensible, democratically-minded people in the other countries of the Middle East. – Mr President, ambition is a practical joke played by the gods on mankind. They give us ambitions so we believe we can climb the heights of Olympus and then they ensure that we never reach the top. The programme of the Belgian presidency is ambitious. It would be ambitious for a two-year presidency, but for one of 99 days, as the President-in-Office has pointed out, I fear that it is too ambitious. I welcome, of course, his intention that the Union should listen to the people. "We have to resolve the Irish question." How often have those words been uttered down the centuries? But Mr Verhofstadt has to lead the Council towards a resolution of the problem, posed by the failure of Nice and by the Irish referendum. The democratic decision of the Irish people cannot be ignored or ridden roughshod over. Democracy may be inconvenient, but it is all we have between freedom and tyranny. Moreover, the Irish referendum and the concerns exposed in the demonstrations – even though they were hijacked by extremists – should be telling us something. As the President-in-Office has said: they are telling us that Europe is not being listened to. People all over the Union, and indeed in the global market all over the world, have lost their faith in the institutions of governance. They are looking to us, their elected representatives, not for initiatives, but for reassurance. Not for change piled upon change, but for stability. Not for ambition, but, for that rarest of all human virtues – common sense. If I may paraphrase the ancient Greek proverb for the President-in-Office: "Those whom the Gods wish to destroy, they first raise high." . – Given the way in which the Charter seems to have been able to set its own terms of reference and its own limitations (or more accurately lack of limitations), it is necessary that fundamental questions be answered before it is allowed to develop further. Whilst it is right and proper that a legislative body such as the European Union should be bound by minimum standards of what is acceptable in civilised society, nothing will be gained if the implementation of the Charter continues to develop along the lines set out in this report. What is to happen if the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights develop contradictory case law? Which will take precedence? Who will gain from potential forum-hopping other than litigation lawyers? How can a legally-binding document claim that all rights are equal – whether it is the right to life or the right to strike? Are not many of these issues really political in nature rather than fundamental legal rights? Was not Commissioner Byrne right when he said that questions of education, health and housing provision – and their financial implications – are best left to elected politicians rather than judges? – Madam President, this is a strange, uncomfortable and schizophrenic report. Parts of it are clearly crafted as helpful suggestions to the IGC; other parts form a list of pious hopes and hopeful wishes which are certain to be rejected by the Conference. How much of this schizoid quality reflects the positions of the two rapporteurs is hard to estimate. If so, I am sure that I can attribute the better parts to my friend and colleague Mr Dimitrakopoulos and the more unusual parts to Mr Leinen. However, the majority of my Conservative colleagues have voted to reject the report and will vote accordingly in this House. The Conservative delegation regards many of the ideas in the report as centralising, syndicalist, unnecessary and backward-looking. Instead of examining new, flexible and radical approaches to an enlarged Union in the global market, the message of this report is: carry on regardless down the road from Maastricht and Amsterdam! Nevertheless, in rejecting this report the Conservative delegation shows it too has a schizophrenic quality, since it therefore rejects the excellent amendment by Mr Duff, to give a legal opt-out to Member States, and that of my friend Mr Perry and others, to enable Parliament to put public money where its mouth is by saving wasteful expenditure entailed in the absurdity of these Strasbourg sessions. That is the nature of democracy and democratic decisions. They too are often strange, uncomfortable and schizophrenic, but they remain the best we have all the same. .  Mr President, I would also like to congratulate Mrs Boumediene-Thiery on her far-reaching report. I should record that in many ways my party is not altogether happy with the Charter of Fundamental Rights as it came in and, especially in view of what we have heard from both the President-in-Office and the Commissioner, we have concerns that it could become yet another framework for regulation and bureaucracy, when common sense and good manners should be allowed to have their individual way. With the imminence of our elections, we are all aware that the largest party in Europe is now the apathy party. We are very conscious that the forecasts for turnout in June are going to be even lower than in the past. A major task facing the next Parliament will be to bring the citizens of the new Europe to a greater understanding of, and involvement with, the institutions. And they are  institutions, not  institutions. There are a number of methods by which citizens can make their voices heard. They can apply directly to their elected national governments, which make up the Council; to their Commissioner nominated by their elected government; to us, as elected representatives; to the European Ombudsman; and also to the Committee on Petitions of this Parliament. It is on behalf of that committee that I have submitted an opinion on this report. We in the Committee on Petitions have noticed how often we are able to sort out things which should have been sorted out at a national, or even sometimes a regional, level. However, the continuing existence of the Committee on Petitions provides a very useful safety valve and stopgap, and, uniquely among Parliament's committees, its work will continue over the interregnum into the new Parliament. Some of you may have noticed that there is a work of art – I assume it is a work of art – in the centre of the tower building courtyard: a glass globe, approximately two metres in diameter. From a distance it seems simple and transparent, but the closer you get to it, the more complicated the construction appears and the more opaque the surface. This is a superb, but ironic, symbol of both this Parliament and the European Union. I therefore suggest that it is the job of the new House and the new Commission to make the present institutions work and to simplify their relationships with citizens. This would do much to meet the objectives laid out by the President-in-Office and to ensure that we, when we are re-elected, have the support of our citizens. – Mr President, I wish to begin by saying to the Greek Presidency ''. The President-in-Office and President Prodi have described the workings of the Convention – this is not the Convention I have been attending. The minister referred to 'consensus', but not to 'majority'. We have found a 'consensus' on one issue where there were five speeches in favour of a project and 49 against, but President Giscard d'Estaing felt that was a consensus in favour! He also said that the IGC will 'take into account'. What does that mean? For me that confirms that the Praesidium has actually been working as a kind of pre-IGC. President Prodi said that the deliberations were taken in the full light of day – but not the meetings of the Praesidium, nor the private meetings between Giscard d'Estaing and some Heads of Government, nor the leaks to , putting very extreme positions from which Giscard d'Estaing could then be seen to negotiate to merely difficult or mildly impossible positions. I fear we have missed an opportunity. We were told that all subjects were open to start with, but the subject of reform of the  has been closed. There is no mechanism for reviewing current legislation and the regulatory regime – that has been refused. There is to be no rewriting of Nice – that has been refused. This is not something that you can say is open. We have made progress, but in which direction? I fear we have made progress in the direction of the Council of Ministers and in the direction of national governments, not in the direction of this House and the people we represent. This is not a happy business, for I fear that we may have betrayed not only the European institutions but also the new Member States and, worst of all, our fellow citizens of Europe. Mr President, I support the ideas behind the proposals in Mr De Rossa's excellent report and congratulate him on it. One of the issues we need to address is the definition of bushmeat. It is insufficiently precise. We know or believe that we are all talking about the same thing: primarily, endangered species, in particular the great apes. There is, however, a delicacy trade, which is for the consumption of bushmeat outside Africa. It is clearly enormously difficult, both in Africa and in South America, to prevent people who are starving or who have extremely limited amounts of food from 'poaching' in their neighbouring jungle. However, there are species both in South America and in Africa that can be managed and could form the basis of an organised trade, with the appropriate safeguards. My concern is that there is a large market in Europe for bushmeat. Every year several thousands of pounds in weight of illegally-imported bushmeat is seized at London Heathrow airport alone, most of it in an appalling condition. There is a reasonably large number of residents and citizens from the European Union, and from African and South American countries who, perhaps legitimately, want to consume this if it can be provided on a sustainable basis. This demand will not go away any more than the demand of Mr De Rossa's Irish compatriots for Guinness will go away, wherever they are based. The risk is that we will drive it underground even further than has been the case. One of the options that the Commission needs to look at most earnestly is the proper management of the trade, which would involve extensive and, unfortunately, expensive, surveys of animal populations, control of selective killing and, as far as the export trade is concerned, proper regulation for public health. As Mr Corrie said, driven underground, the implications of this trade for public health are appalling. It is a scandal that, in the interests of land management, American multi-millionaires can shoot elephants that need to be culled, whilst people of African origin are not allowed to buy and consume bushmeat in a managed trade. I thank Mr De Rossa for his assurance that this report does not and cannot refer to deer and elk management in Europe. I would also point out that any references to high-powered rifles are unnecessary. There are approximately 20 million AK-47s in Africa, and any control we have over rifles in the European Union will make no difference. However, like other colleagues, I urge the Commission to take action soon. – Mr President, it used to be said that war is too serious a business to be left to generals. I fear that today defence is too serious a business to be left to politicians. It is my fear that in an understandable but misguided wish for the European Union to have its own defence capability, politicians are forging ahead with plans that are at best wishful thinking, and at worst dangerous. If the plan is to mirror the position of the EMU in relationship to the EU, then I foresee that the ESDP is going to inhibit NATO from functioning efficiently and properly. I have read Mr Brok's report, and while there is much in it – especially in the original draft – that I find interesting, I fear its proposals will create more problems than they solve. Let us be honest, Europe's armed forces have a woefully depleted capability. Europe's national governments have no coherence or agreement when it comes to military operations. None of the experience and sophistication that has been so painstakingly and carefully developed by NATO on both the political and operational fronts is apparent in any of these proposals. Without an increase in defence spending that would be unacceptable to our electors, Europe's armed forces cannot mount and maintain any major operation outside the immediate area. Nobody can deny that NATO's record is what we should be seeking to protect, not to undermine. It is time that Prime Minister Blair stopped dallying with other concepts. He should make it clear that Britain and the other European states that are NATO members have a future only within NATO. Defence policy is literally a matter of life and death: the death not of politicians, but of soldiers, sailors and airmen. They cannot be put at risk for the sake for closer European political integration. . – In discussing Madame Lalumière's comprehensive and interesting report on the common European security and defence policy in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we concentrated on the institutions and decision-making procedures. In particular the need for parliamentary scrutiny and democratic accountability. The development of the ESDP is a major new departure for the European project and therefore needs to have the existing institutional framework clarified. Whether there are legal arguments that existing powers are adequate is not really the issue. It should be clear that the parliamentary dimension should be introduced. No member of a national parliament would consider for a moment having limited and anything but transparent democratic scrutiny of security and defence. Within the limits of operational security even the US Senate and House are closely involved with the operations of the Department of Defence. Because of the particular nature of the possible developments of the CESDP, we also believe that Treaty changes will be needed so that such developments can be conducted openly and democratically. Similarly the status of the High Representative must be clarified in relation to the existing triangle and the Commissioner responsible for external relations. Mr President, you will be aware perhaps that my Party in the UK have considerable reservations about the thrust of this policy but I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues on the Constitutional Affairs Committee for guiding me into producing an opinion that I hope will be acceptable to this distinguished House. Mr President, However, there is a worrying undercurrent in the way human rights and terrorism have been addressed. While I share some of the sentiments that have been expressed by my colleague Mr Van Orden, I am also worried from another point of view. Centralised government, whether national or international, is very quick to take powers and set up mechanisms that  help them in the fight against terror but which certainly erode the established rights and liberties of the citizen. There is therefore a supreme irony that the counter-terrorism policies, which we all support, may do as much to restrict our freedoms as the terrorists do themselves. Mr President, unless there is an electoral miracle in June, or a mass self-sacrificing resignation among my colleagues, this is the last occasion on which I shall have the pleasure to address this distinguished and honourable House. May I, with your indulgence President, take this opportunity to put on record my sincerest thanks to the Members of this House, the staff here and in Brussels, and above all my colleagues in the British Conservative delegation for the generosity, kindness, help, sympathy and often-needed support that all have given me over the past five years. It would be a lie if I said I was happy with my lowly position on my party's list in the South West region of Great Britain, but it would not be a lie to say that I have enjoyed these five years, perhaps more than I can say. So Mr President, thank you and farewell. Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his careful, accurate and detailed analysis of this case. While I am now reasonably content with the outcome of Mr Perry's report, I must, in the interests of balance, make some comments. Mr Perry's explanatory statement does not give a fair and balanced account of the circumstances surrounding the underwriting losses of Lloyd's members in the 1980s. I would cite in particular its highly selective use of material and its failure to reflect the full findings of the UK Court of Appeal in the Jaffrey case, including its view that it was only with the benefit of hindsight that reserves established by syndicates for asbestos liabilities in the 1980s proved to be inadequate, given the unanticipated way in which those liabilities developed. Of course I have tremendous sympathy for the Names who suffered these underwriting losses, among whom are a number of my friends, including the godparents of one of my own children. Yet, since I became involved in this case, I have been subjected to a torrent of abuse and vituperation, including anonymous abusive telephone calls to my home accusing me of being a paid agent of Lloyd's. Since 97% of the Lloyd's Names have accepted the renewal plan of 1996 and they have been able to reduce their liabilities by significant amounts, this issue has by and large been covered fully. As stated in all the advertisements: you cannot guarantee that past profit is an indication of future gain. The focus of Mr Perry's report and the real allegation of the petitioners is, as I understand it, that the UK Government failed to implement the terms of EU insurance law correctly in its supervision of Lloyd's. The UK Government denies this allegation. The real place to adjudicate, therefore, is in a court of law. That is exactly what is happening, as there is now such a case before the English High Court. These are complex legal issues. Parliament should let the legal process run its course and allow the Court to reach a proper decision. Meanwhile, I encourage the Commission to respond to those issues raised in this report and to reply as fully as possible. While we need answers as soon as is reasonable, I would caution against a rush to judgment. In conclusion, I urge this House to support Mr Perry's amended report and, until the due process has been exhausted, go no further. – Madam President, I feel rather like the great Blondin, just before he started out on his tightrope walk across the Niagara Falls. I have to say that my group and my delegation are opposed in principle to the regulation or financing of political parties at a European level. We, like others in this Chamber, have deep concerns that the proposed funding for European political parties has no legal base. It follows from this that we cannot favour a legal provision for state funding of political parties at European level. State funding of European political parties is quite different, therefore, to state funding of political groups within the European Parliament. In the UK, short money, as it is known, is provided for the support of opposition parties' leadership in their parliamentary activities. Our view also is that the Schleicher report does not follow the principles of the Nice Declaration. Article 191 of the Declaration states: "The provisions on the funding for political parties shall apply on the same basis for all these political forces represented in the European Parliament." The Schleicher report quite clearly discriminates against some of the smaller parties and groups. Finally, as Commissioner Patten said: "This regulation is mistaken in principle, unworkable in practice and discriminatory in effect." However, I wish to thank all the colleagues who understand that, like Europe, our group and our delegation do thrive on its differences. Nevertheless, for the reasons stated, that is why I and my British colleagues will be opposing this premature report. In conclusion, my late grandfather, Harold Macmillan, always held the view that Members of Parliament should not be paid, because when they were paid it attracted the wrong sort of chap. – Mr President, the United Nations Conference opens a week after the presidential elections in Zimbabwe. By then hand-wringing resolutions deploring human rights abuses by a re-elected Mugabe government would be no more meaningful than were the protests of the then League of Nations following Mussolini's invasion of Abyssinia. The European Union has issued deadlines and ultimata. We must now gather support from the international community for those measures. We should thank President Mbeki and other African leaders for their work behind the scenes, but now is the time for them to speak out publicly and firmly against Mugabe's oppressive regime. We must make sure that the conditions of our ultimata are met in full. We must be sure that Mugabe will allow an EU team to observe the election process and the EU must be allowed to choose the make-up of that team, which should include British Members. Our observers must be free to move where they wish and free to report back. A genuine free press must be restored and recent media laws must be repealed. Above all, the murder, maiming and intimidation of political opponents must stop now. It is time for the world to judge Mugabe by his actions, not by his promises. By the same token, the world will judge the EU by its effectiveness, not by its rhetoric. Mr President, like my colleague, Mr Van Orden, I am not persuaded of the necessity or the efficacity of European defence. However, we must recognise one fact: sooner or later Joe Public in the United States is going to wake up one morning and ask why it is that 3.2 cents of every dollar he pays to Uncle Sam goes to European defence. It is a good question. If I were an elected representative in Washington I would find it hard to answer. It seems we are all agreed that we have to take greater responsibility for our defence, whether as independent nation states, or under the banner of Europe, or as partners in NATO - which I favour. Whatever the route, we will have to increase defence spending. If we were to continue procurement as we do now, we would have to increase tax by between 3% and 4%. As an elected politician, I would prefer not to have to tell that to my voters. It comes down to more bang for our buck. In order to do that we must rationalise our defence spending, as Mr Queiró's report has pointed out. However, we must face two realities: first, the best and biggest bang may involve buying outside the EU. For example, the A 400 military transport may be a worthy successor to the Hercules, with a greater capability, when it flies, but the only long-range heavy lift aircraft in Europe today are the Boeing/McDonnell Douglas C17s leased, not owned, by the Royal Air Force. I am sure that all the various attack helicopters have their good points, but spending money on developing four of them wholly or in part is folly. And the list goes on: communications equipment, next generation missiles, remotely piloted vehicles, etc. But the worst example of duplication is the next generation fighter. The Eurofighter Typhoon is a superb aircraft. Millions of euros have been invested by four European countries and the weapons systems built around it. But it is not the only European fighter on offer. Dassault is selling the Rafale. Why am I not surprised that it is the Rafale that meets the requirements of the ? I am sure that it has nothing to do with supplying the many air forces of the world that have purchased Dassault Mirages with the next generation fighter, at a price that would not be so low were it not for the purchase by the French Air Force. We must be honest. We must have a proper evaluation of the role and requirements of our armed forces before we can develop a capability to meet them. It is only under NATO that this honesty and lack of national partiality can be achieved. Of course cooperation and economics go hand in hand, but we know that for our troops the equipment and the training are what count. Hard training makes for easy battles. We must give our troops the best, both in equipment and training. We owe them nothing less. – Madam President, the same applies to me as a major international publisher and broadcasting company. I shall be abstaining. – Madam President, as many colleagues have pointed out, the pace of enlargement varies from country to country and month by month. It is no secret that the modernisation of the agricultural industries of the candidate countries is proving to be one of the most difficult issues. Clearly support under the Sapard scheme is of vital importance in assisting that process. However, the take-up of this and other schemes is patchy. Expectations in those countries are universally high. There is a continuing problem that these expectations may not be met, producing the inevitable political and social fall-out. In the past months I have visited Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary and once you get away from the main roads and railway lines it is easy to see how much has to be done. I share Baroness Nicholson's fear that the often superhuman efforts by the governments will not be met by flexibility from our side. May I urge that such EU operations are carried out with flexibility and tact and encourage the process rather than inhibit it. . – Mr President, the case of the Reverend Raymond Owen raises a number of interesting, not to say esoteric, points. Members may feel that whether a priest is employed by his or her church or by God is a question that must have been decided decades, if not centuries, ago. In preparing this report, I took informal advice from leading churchmen, but have only received a formal submission from the Archbishop's Council of the Church of England on 4 November 2002. Not surprisingly, there are certain parts of the report with which they do not agree. I will come back to them shortly. However, the fundamental questions of principle thrown up by this case include whether members of the clergy should enjoy the same rights as other citizens. As I have made clear in the report, while Directive 2000/78/EC establishes a general framework, I accept that certain types of worker must be dependent on definitions in national legislation and implementation. I also accept that Directive 91/533/EEC, while applying to clergy in some Member States, does not apply in the UK, and that the various directives are vague and imprecise in their reference to workers, employees and the working population. Who falls into which category is frequently left to be defined by national law. Members may be interested to note that while our staff and assistants are clearly employees, we are not covered by any of these definitions. The conclusions of the report accept and include those of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which is the committee with the competence and expertise on most of the issues raised by the petitioner. I have to say that my opinions, and those of my colleagues in the British Conservative delegation, are somewhat at odds with some of the conclusions reached but after exchanges of views, however, it was clear that the report faithfully reflects the consensus of the committee. The submission presented by the petitioner highlighted prima facie evidence of shortcomings in the Church of England's procedures. In fairness, I must tell the House that since the committee adopted the report, the Church of England has pointed out that the decision taken was not to terminate Reverend Owen's tenure of office. Rather, it was a decision not to grant an extension beyond the 18-month extension allowed in Section 20 of the 1983 Pastoral Measure. I should remind the House that as the Church of England is an established church, its rules and regulations form part of the canon of the law in England, although not in the rest of the United Kingdom. It is clearly not the role of either the committee or this House to adjudicate in questions of fact. Equally, it is accepted that the Petitions Committee is not a judicial body and nor should it exercise or try to exercise a quasi-judicial function. Nevertheless, it is clear that the directives in the area of employment, and in particular the aforementioned Directive 91/533/EEC, are confusing and even inconsistent. Accordingly, the report calls for a review to clarify this position. In parenthesis, this only serves to underline the wisdom of the former Conservative government in opting out of the Social Chapter. Finally, while we accept that where protection is afforded to workers by European legislation, it should extend as widely as possible. It would be quite wrong for the European Union to try to impose a monolithic structure that would not allow for diversity in cultural, religious and social customs in Member States. This is a sentiment that I am sure will be heartily endorsed, not just in Lambeth Palace, but also in the Vatican. Therefore it is my sincere hope that, as pointed out in paragraph 12 of the report, the Commission works with Member States to find the means of securing for workers with distinct constitutional status all the employment rights consistent with their national policies as soon as possible to avoid further such confusion. – Mr President, it is a pleasure to see the Commissioner here. I may well disagree with his proposals but I wish to begin by saying that we believe that Commissioner Fischler is an excellent Agriculture Commissioner, although he might have got this report slightly wrong. That is no criticism of Mr Fischler himself. It is well known that we need to address the serious problem facing the beef industry, and that is certainly what brought about the Commission's proposal. I say to the Commissioner that there is a Byzantine proverb: for those who have food, there are many problems; for those who have not, there is only one problem, and it is, of course, a great problem when there is too much beef in the marketplace. This is exactly what the Commissioner is trying to address. However, in my opinion as rapporteur, he has missed the mark. It is easy for me to stand here and criticise, but what I tried to do in my report was to be constructive and move the situation forward – I realise that the Commissioner does not agree with some of the measures. I hope that when the Commissioner addresses us he will perhaps answer one question: Will the 15 Council members agree with the Commission's proposals? I think they might not. I should like to know whether the view of the Commission is that they will agree with the Commission's proposals or not. First, the one thing that was voted out in the Committee on Agriculture that I believe was a mistake was the 90-head limit. One of the major problems that we have – and the Commissioner is quite right that we have a problem with overproduction and we have pushed forward the proposals to allow the intervention limits to be raised – is that by changing the 90-head limit there is a real risk that we cut off some of those producers in their prime. I say to those Members who do not understand agriculture that to raise a beef animal from conception to the actual marketplace takes somewhere in the region of three years. It is a very long process. You cannot switch off something like that overnight and just say: well, hang on a minute, these cattle cannot be supported because suddenly we have changed our minds. If the Commissioner cannot at least change that 90-head limit – and we hope that one of the amendments may help us; we are looking at that at the moment – then at least he should look at helping those farmers who are affected by the 90-head limit so that they can adjust, because agriculture is a long-term process, not a short-term process. We have seen the effects of BSE. This is again why I am concerned a little about the report. As the Commissioner knows, BSE has been a major problem in the United Kingdom. It has been the archetype of the BSE crisis. We got through it and with careful construction we brought our market back. It was rather unfortunate that foot-and-mouth disease played a part in destroying the very work that had been done to get the marketplace back, bearing in mind that foot and mouth has nothing to do with food, in as much as it is of no danger to the public. I ask the Commissioner not to make knee-jerk reactions, because I believe this is a knee-jerk reaction. At the moment I cannot accept the new amendments tabled. I have a great concern that we are trying to move away from the real issues here. As I said, it is easy to stand here and criticise and I hope the Commissioner takes on board the amendments. The question we ask is whether or not the proposals satisfy the requirements: I believe a few of the Commission's proposals do but the majority fall short. I leave the Commissioner with one last thought: if he finds it impossible to accept Parliament's proposals, then he may wish to see the report referred back to the Committee on Agriculture. Then we could rediscuss it, because we have put forward some good proposals and if it is a wish of this august House that it be referred back, then so be it. – To help Mr Galeote and one or two other Members in the state-of-the-art plenary that we have here, I wondered if it would be possible at some future date for Members actually to be able to keep the same seat. We seem to be continually rotating and it is often difficult for Members to find their seats. Even in the old chamber when we did not have places allocated, we were at least able to continue to sit in the same places. One wonders how long we will have to keep printing new seating orders. Could this be rectified? – Madam President, following your statement yesterday regarding the state of the air conditioning in the building, I have a slight problem in my position as Chairman of the Delegation for relations with Canada. I have a group of Canadian members of parliament coming to the next part-session in Strasbourg. I will have to take a decision on Monday as to whether they will be travelling to Strasbourg or Brussels. Bearing in mind the French position on the precautionary principle, can a decision be taken rather sooner than a fortnight on where we will be meeting next month? – Mr President, Commissioner, I welcome Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf's report although I personally find it quite difficult to support in full. My view is that the common position by the Commission is excellent. Let me just go back to what Mr Pesälä has just said: what is the real problem facing the food industry today? It is usually fraud. If we look back over the recent food scares, if we look at the problem of foot-and-mouth, it was a misuse of swill feeding; if we look at the problems of dioxin, there are sufficient measures there to prevent it. It was the illegal use of an oil in a mixture. Then there was sewage sludge which we had in one other Member State, and BSE which was all to do with changing temperatures. But the legislation is present. The first and primary position of this House is to guarantee that the Commission does everything it possibly can to ensure that the present legislation and the common position are put in place and enforced. Therefore, I call upon the Commission, first of all, to promise us that the present legislation is enforced. Turning now to the protein situation, Commissioner Fischler would not be surprised to hear that I would slightly disagree with his position on whether or not we grow our own proteins or import them. But could he actually give me a guarantee: I understand that the European Union has regulations in place at the moment about the volume of GM crops allowed in and the percentage at present is – and I stand to be corrected on this – about 1% maximum of GM crops. Could the Commission now guarantee that none of the soya entering the Union in current and future imports will exceed the 1% maximum? The US has strict measures and regulations on imports. We in the European Union must follow these regulations and ensure that we follow the same patterns. – Mr President, I rise on a matter concerning the meeting today of the College of Commissioners, under Rule 38 or 64. I would like to request that Commissioner Lamy makes an emergency statement to this House as to why he is avoiding parliamentary scrutiny on a paper known as "everything but arms". This has profound implications for this House, for ACP countries and for Europe as a whole. I say profound implications because this House wants more and more democratic accountability. This particular issue will not only affect this House, but most of the European Member States, particularly those that have such products as bananas – which are very topical – rice and sugar. Mr Lamy should make this statement today to make sure that we do have democratic accountability. It appears that he has no wish to discuss this issue with Parliament. It is of great importance. – Mr President, I am rather concerned that I have been looking at a slightly different document from the rest of this Parliament. I very much agree with the Commissioner's views on decoupling and very much support them. It is important to keep it simple, to keep away from partial decoupling and to cut red tape. Let us have total decoupling. It will mean that for once the funding will get down to the farmer and he will receive it. That is perhaps partly behind the Commissioner's principles. One of the problems we have always had in the common agricultural policy is that the funding has gone to multinationals such as supermarkets and not actually got down to the farmers. I must confirm what Mrs Kinnock said about the poorest people not receiving the funding. A statement made in the United Kingdom recently made it clear that British farmers were virtually at the bottom of the table for earnings: they were third from the bottom. So let us hope that the funding reaches some of those people who need it. I have a question for the Council. Does it want reform because of enlargement or because of the WTO? Do not go into bed with the USA, because the USA's farm bill certainly went against the principles that we in the European Union want. The USA has no interest in or concerns about the EU. I have three short questions for the Commissioner, which I hope he may be able to answer, if not today then certainly later on. They concern problems arising from the 2002 reference period in the Commission's report. If national reserves for a single farm payment, i.e. for additional claims, are to be raised from 1% to 3% of the total allocation, where will this come from? The fruit and vegetable problems are great. Where are we going to find funding for such areas as starch potatoes? The Commissioner mentioned this very briefly. I hope he can confirm what he said. Finally, as regards biofuels on set-aside land, I know the Commissioner has changed his views on that. I hope he will keep to that and still reconsider biofuels on set-aside. – Mr President, the British countryside is at the moment in total crisis. I have a document here in front of me stating that the British government admits that it was unable to meet the required deadlines for the slaughter of infected animals. It goes on to say that the control of the disease, as my colleague there has said, has failed because we are now having new outbreaks in the centre of Britain, in the centre of the region where we thought we were rid of it. We have failed to control it and we have also failed to provide the necessary border controls. Last Sunday I drove from my farm in North Yorkshire to Strasbourg. I was never questioned about whether I was carrying any meat and there were no border controls at all to check my vehicle. There were no disinfection points. There was a simple carpet in the middle of the road and that was all. I say to Mr Lamy, who is the really important man here today, that we have a situation where England is the dustbin of Europe. We are importing food from these countries. We must look at that. Finally, will he consider the possibility of a public inquiry into the way this matter has been handled? Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr Busk on his excellent report. He has managed to incorporate most of the legislation that went through the Committee on the Environment, which is important. It is also important that we push this legislation forward so that the consumers can have a product which they know is perfectly safe, is reared in an environmentally-friendly manner and which they can eat with total safety, knowing that the animal has had an excellent life. It is up to farmers to follow the legislation through. Mr Busk touched on two or three important issues. I will reiterate them very quickly. One of them was transport of animals. We are well aware of the importance of that and I know Commissioner Byrne, is equally aware of it. Bringing that legislation into the WTO negotiations is vitally important, as is clear labelling. Let me add, speaking not just from the viewpoint of the Committee on the Environment but also as farmer, that what we must not do within the European Union – and here I plead with the Commissioner, knowing his views on the way we import and export our products – is to end up putting legislation in place which exports the very industries on which we are legislating now in the EU. If we do that, then we simply end up exporting animal welfare outside the European Union where we have no control over it. We must have equality, not just within the European Union, but also for products coming into the European Union. I plead with the Commissioner to make sure that sort of legislation is in place, so that we do not have products coming into the European Union which are not of the same standard that we set. I know it is very difficult for people to understand this, but I hope that the Commissioner will follow it through and keep that legislation in place. – . – Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating the two rapporteurs. I would add my great thanks to Mrs Grossetête with whom I have worked extremely closely on this particular issue. I am only here to represent the Committee on Agriculture on the veterinary medicines side. It would be remiss of me if I did not say at the outset that one of the problems facing agriculture is that it is going through the worst time it has ever had – I will not mention the problems facing British beef today. Any legislation that this Parliament adopts and pushes through the Commission could have a detrimental effect on industry if it is not put through correctly. Mrs Grossetête has worked extremely well with me and other members on the veterinary medicines bill and, therefore, we will totally support all the legislation in that bill. I would like to raise three issues. Mrs Read briefly covered one. I totally endorse what she says about what is termed 'duality'. One of the problems we have in the European Union is that animals in the very far north, for example, are not necessarily the same as animals in the south. I use the term 'the reindeer syndrome', which many colleagues will have heard me say before. Duality is something that will help to promote the proper use of medicines for species that are not found across the European Union. It may be difficult to get someone to spend the money to test these products for one particular species. Therefore, we have retabled Amendment No 137, which I hope the Commission and Mrs Grossetête will consider. I hope this House will consider supporting it. As I have mentioned, this would help those species that are not widespread. Mrs Grossetête mentioned the way that medicines are dispensed in certain countries. I am delighted that she has taken this on board. I fully support the compromise amendment, which is something I worked particularly hard in the Committee on Agriculture to get through. We are in a situation where Member States differ, firstly, in their definition of what a veterinary surgeon is and what it means and, secondly, in the dispensing of these drugs. In many instances in the United Kingdom, Ireland and one or two other countries, qualified people dispense minor medicines – in particular, products such as worming pills and flea powders. The real worry is not particularly with food-chain animals. But, if this option is removed, we are in a situation where the pets in the animal world will suffer because people will not be able to afford to go to a veterinary surgeon, for example, to get a worming pill for a cat. Therefore, it is important that we have flexibility. I am delighted that both rapporteurs have taken this on board and am totally in favour of it. The final point concerns the use of medicines for equine species. Again, if we are not careful, we are going to inflict hardship on animals that do not deserve it. For example, horses are not eaten in the United Kingdom. It may be that horsemeat is accepted in other countries. If the medicines available to us are restricted, then again it is the animal that suffers. Therefore, it is vitally important that the new Amendment No 65 for equine species is adopted. I shall leave it there, as I have covered the agricultural scene totally. I thank the two rapporteurs for taking on board the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and look forward to a worthwhile result. I hope the Commission will also follow my opinion. – Mr President, on a day when we will be discussing democracy to the end, I rise on a matter of democracy within the European Union. It was brought to my attention by a constituent of mine last night that European Union citizens are being refused the right to register for their local elections. I will give you the example of Calvia, in the Balearic Islands, where they are obstructing EU citizens of many nationalities from registering to vote. It is particularly urgent because they only have until 31 March to register. I request therefore, on behalf of this House, that you either write to the necessary councils or at least look into the matter. – I am sorry to interrupt this august House but I rise on a very important point. A few minutes ago the ECJ ruled in Luxembourg that the French ban on British beef was illegal.  Could I have assurances from you, Madam President, that you will do everything you can to make sure that the French fully compensate the poor hard-pressed British farmers as a result of this ruling? – Mr President, on a point of order. I will be very brief but I rise on a matter which is dear to the hearts of most Members here. On a number of occasions this week the Members bar has had in it visitors from outside Parliament and, actually, just members of the public. I know a number of Members during the week have been unable to get any food. Could we have some clarification from the Quaestors so that we can have a  bar? We have a Members bar in Brussels. I am not against taking one or two members of staff or whoever it might be into the bar, but to bring visiting groups of 20 or more into it is wrong. I hope we can have some clarification. . – British Conservative Members of the PPE-DE Group voted against this report because we feel that it moves too far away from the Commission's original intention of tightening up budgetary control mechanisms. Further, while being sensitive to the socio-economic function of cotton-growing in certain regions, we strongly dispute the rapporteur's assessment that cotton is less environmentally hazardous than other crops. It is well known that a vast array of chemicals are used in cotton-production and we therefore support the Commission's aim for Member States to determine and adopt the appropriate environmental measures to regulate the use of agricultural land used to produce cotton. The insistence that Member States remind producers of the need to comply with environmental legislation is particularly welcomed by British Conservatives. – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission for being present in this debate. As Commissioner Byrne has said, this is about the marketing of seeds and I am rather disappointed that Mrs Auroi has decided to bring in GMOs. This report is about the marketing of traditional, conventional seeds and to bring in GMOs is really not part of the topic that we are debating today. I say that to Mrs Auroi as a seed producer and a seed grower. We spend much time and effort making sure that the product that we produce is completely free from any contamination and this is the way that conventional and traditional seeds are grown. To bring the issue of GMOs into this piece of legislation is wrong. It is also wrong because in fact the next piece of legislation to come from the Commission will be one on GMO seeds, after the two reports that are to go through Parliament, one of which is Mr Trakatellis's report which is currently before the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and of which Commissioner Byrne is well aware. Therefore I see little point at the moment in bringing that up and that is why I hope this Parliament will endorse my amendments while agreeing with the principle stated by Mrs Auroi that we must be aware of the situation with contamination of GMOs. I have tried to bring a little bit more of what I call a more pragmatic approach into this legislation and I hope this House will support my amendments on Mrs Auroi's report which, while supporting in principle what she said, will in practice enable the Commission to bring in the proposal that is due to be submitted after the two reports in Parliament. Therefore it is quite important that we look at these. I say to Mrs Auroi that, yes, we are all aware of the risk of GMO contamination but it has not happened yet and there is no certainty that it will happen in the future; everyone involved in seed production is concerned about it, but please wait until this legislation comes from the Commission, when we will be able to take a decision on it. – Mr President, one of the problems with the banana issue, it seems to me, is that it has become rather emotive. I see my job as a Member of the European Parliament as not just to look after those banana producers within the European Union but all the people in Europe. I understand how people feel about changes to the system but, as I said, I want to look after everyone within the European Union as a whole. If, in that process, I can safeguard the interests of our ACP countries then that is all to the good, but I believe that it is important that we safeguard and look to the welfare of European citizens. We seem sometimes to have lost sight of this fact. I am not one to welcome the way in which the USA has implemented these draconian measures, but it is desperately important that we get a settlement. In my constituency I have industries that are being forced out of business. Jobs are being lost within the European Union because of 100% tariffs on products. I have received many letters about the fact that it is an emotive issue. It may well be to some of our southern Members even more emotive. Well, I just say to them, this is about real people. It is about real emotions and about real jobs. People are being forced out of business because of the Americans and therefore I say it is important that we accept the ruling of the WTO. Either we are in a club or we are out of it and it is particularly important that we accept this. As I said just now, I never accepted the way the Americans acted but it is too late now to deal with that. Therefore, I call upon this House to take a decision tomorrow and I support the proposals by Mr Vatenen, who is speaking later. – Thank you for addressing us so clearly. I just wonder whether or not, having listened to all the debates, you are actually totally and utterly aware of the devastating effect of this decision on UK farmers. You have said already quite clearly that the standing committee on scientific evidence is the highest authority. Mrs Jackson asked you as the very first question if we have another committee to look at our food safety across the European Union will that actually be better than the present standing committee and will people take any notice of it. It appears to me that they have not taken any notice of it. You actually argued almost to the contrary that in actual fact the standing committee on scientific evidence is probably not as good as a food agency. British farmers are suffering as a result of indecision. It is about time the decision was ratified. The previous speaker said in a few days; it was actually in August the decision was taken. How many more days do we need to have a decision? Can I also ask you: there is a practice within Member States, or some Member States, to feed what I would call banned substances to some of their beef cattle. Is the scientific committee and the Commission going to look at that? Or are we going to continue with a situation where the press are just going to use it to attack Member States? Commissioner, all I say to you is that British farmers, the European Union and agriculture are suffering as a result of indecision. We want to see the decision taken on Friday evening, not waiting until Strasbourg. There is no more scientific evidence. Did the French sign up to the Florence agreement? Has the United Kingdom met all the conditions that were laid down in that agreement? Why has a decision not been taken immediately? – Mr President, I wish to raise a point of order concerning something Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel said the other day. It came to my notice yesterday that the problem of the drivers had been considerably eased by the addition of many people coming back from their holidays from the Brussels-based group. Parliament ought to thank them for their support in making sure that we had a smooth transition back to normal transport here in Strasbourg. Might I suggest that, if the French are unable to continue to support us, we consider moving, if not to Brussels then to Luxembourg, where there is a large hemicycle and where I am sure they would look after us extremely well. – Mr President, can I congratulate Mr Daul on his report and first of all say that I will be supporting it tomorrow. I will be supporting my electorate, who are large sugar producers, and I will not be supporting the multinationals who are lobbying very hard. I would just say to you Commissioner that I worked on the 77 Protocol which was very much involved with helping the developing world countries. I heard Mrs Gill talking about the way in which the consumer was going to benefit. Let me make it absolutely plain to all of you here today, that the consumer will not benefit from a reduction in the price paid to British and European farmers for sugar. They certainly do not in the rest of the world where sugar is much cheaper. Why is it that I am being lobbied by the biggest single user of sugar in the world, a US company, specifically to get the price down? I heard Commissioner Lamy speaking before about trade relations with the US. Will the United States be reducing the price that they pay their farmers for their sugar as we are going to do, or are they going to continue with their very high support? Mr Daul, you said that the sugar regime was a special agreement. I would argue a little bit with you on that because I believe it is unique. First of all, the tax-payer does not pay for it. Secondly, it benefits farmers directly, unlike many parts of the present CAP, and thirdly, the sugar protocol itself helps some of the poorest countries in the world. It is very important that we continue to support those countries. I worked very hard to get them support and I intend to keep that support for those ACP countries. We have a saying, Commissioner, in the UK, if it is not broke, don't mend it. Please do not try to mend this system. – Mr President, I also congratulate our Danish colleagues on the way in which they have handled enlargement. But, obviously, I have completely misunderstood the fact that we have resolved overnight the issue of the common agricultural policy. The President of the Commission said that the common agricultural policy has been solved. I feel that what has actually happened is that the agreement between President Chirac and Chancellor Schröder went in some way to undermine the way in which Commissioner Fischler was proposing his reforms. The other day when he spoke to the Agriculture Committee I felt very much that he will be a strong leader in his mid-term review and will carry the reforms through. I also noted that one of the proposals is that we reform the Agriculture Committee and go for codecision. I hope the Council and the Commission will support this because it will help to reform the common agricultural policy. We would have a totally different agricultural policy if the Agriculture Committee had codecision. We have also heard many vague ideas about how we are going to reform it and I put to you one or two ideas that I believe to be important. I ask the Commissioner, how will modulation work? How are we going to cope if we do not really reform the common agricultural policy in Commissioner Fischler's mind when we come to discuss the WTO negotiations? There has been talk about capping the common agricultural policy and yet there has been no mention of how we are going to use the funding from Pillar One to Pillar Two. How are we going to fund the new proposals in Pillar Two? Finally, I wish to speak particularly for my constituents in East Anglia, many of whom have not drawn on the common agricultural policy because they grow crops which have never been subsidised by this Union. They are going to be disadvantaged because, under the new proposals, there will be a payment on historical claims. I urge the Commission to rethink that and look at the old IACS forms. You have the measurements, make sure you look at those before you take a final decision. Let us make sure we have an agricultural policy which helps our farmers, helps the budget and helps the new democracies. – Mr President, some three years ago I led a march of MEPs down the Champs Elysées in Paris and almost got arrested. My real concern is that we are enlarging the European Union even though we still do not have a single market among the 15 Member States. I have asked the Commission and Parliament to put pressure on the French to lift the illegal ban on British beef. Yet we seem not to have got anywhere. We had the British minister in Paris yesterday refusing to eat British beef. I admit that was terrible. She did not eat it in front of the cameras, but I understand that she ate it in private. I urge this House and you, Mr President, to make every effort to try and put pressure on the French to lift the ban on British beef or at least to put pressure on the Commission to take action against the French, so that we have a single market before we enlarge the European Union. – I congratulate Mr Byrne on his position. He may well remember that I asked him last week in Brussels to say whether he would instigate proceedings today and obviously he has done so and I am delighted at that. But he must understand the feelings of this House. Today, we have half the Conservative delegation in this Chamber to hear his responses – and I have to say very few of my Socialist colleagues from the UK party. As of today, there are eighty-six infringement proceedings against France, so this is not something new to France. One of those infringement proceedings concerns bovine products – could the Commissioner actually answer the question as to what that case involves. Secondly, has the UK Government applied for compensation, because it should be doing so on behalf of the British farmers who have lost out? – Madam President, do you want to wait until the meeting has finished here or not? Could I first of all address my comments to the Commissioner? Commissioner, I have attacked you vociferously on three previous occasions for not taking a decision, because I thought you were weak. I would like now to first of all extend my thanks to you for the way in which you have at long last taken a decision and are going to take the position you are with the French. We know that it is extremely difficult. I actually believe that you have been – and I will use British words here, "stitched up"; and "stitched up" not only by the French. I also think you were used by the British Government. I look forward to seeing a quick response to your actions. I might add to Mr Whitehead that I speak here now not just as a Member of this august Parliament but as a farmer. It is particularly important that people understand that this crisis has affected every individual farmer, not just in France, but right across Europe. I have with me today – and I risk being arrested, I brought them for you, Mr Byrne – two British prime steaks. They are from a local butcher and farmer who lives next door to me, who will almost certainly not be in business by the end of the week. I have to say, after hearing what Mr Martinez had to say, that I am deeply concerned that BSE may now be transmitted to human beings. I would just like to add, since you are about to announce a White Paper on food safety, that, whatever people say, food right across Europe can never be 100% safe. I would just like to suggest to Mr Martinez that last year over 20 people died from listeria in France – more people than caught BSE. Therefore I do hope that you use objective scientific evidence when it comes to food safety, and not just a precautionary principle, which is understood under Article 30 (ex-Article 36). I look forward to hearing your reply later on. . The British Conservative Delegation of the EPP-ED Group voted against the Martínez Martínez report on specific measures for agricultural products for various countries. My colleagues and I are wholly sympathetic to the special needs of the EU's outermost regions given their isolation and the problems this causes. However, it is our view that the Commission has produced a sensible proposal to combat their difficulties and that going beyond this, as the rapporteur proposes, is not justifiable in terms of policy or budgetary implications. Across Europe, the agricultural sector is in severe difficulties and stretching its budget further does not seem feasible at this stage. Similar thinking instructed my delegation's decision to vote against Mr Martínez Martínez's other report on structural measures. Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission and Mr Cunha for their hard work. We in the British Conservative delegation reluctantly took the decision that we were unable to support the recommendations in the Cunha report. We see the need for reform, and the need for reform for our farmers. Therefore we cannot support horizontal or partial decoupling and as that was an integral part of Mr Cunha's report, we are unable to support that. However, we support the Commission in its legislative resolution and want the Council to come to an agreement as soon as it possibly can. We believe that the Commission's proposals are along the right lines. I would add that Mr Cunha is an esteemed Member of this House; he is also a personal friend. However, we believe, and I personally believe, that farmers need security. Mr Cunha's report would probably mean a second reform and we could not accept it. – Madam President, I rise on a matter which is of great importance to everyone in this House. Yesterday afternoon, we had the Commission with their usual answering of questions. Mr Provan in the chair had a major problem because Mr Byrne took up 29 minutes answering questions. It is particularly important to this House that we have the opportunity to question the Commissioners and for a Commissioner to spend 29 minutes answering questions is, in my opinion, ridiculous. I believe that he was particularly concerned about having to answer a question which I know a number of colleagues – not myself – wanted to ask him concerning the reason why he did not instigate interim measures against the French on beef. That apart, I would suggest that, whoever is in the chair, if we have another situation where a Commissioner is just talking his time out, then the chair should have the power to stop the Commissioner or make him shorten his answers. – Mr President, firstly I should like to thank Mr Byrne for his statement and all those involved in drawing up this report. When I first brought it to the attention of Parliament, I had no idea that it was going to be the success that it has been. It has been a positive achievement, not just for the people of the United Kingdom, and not just for the people of the European Union, but also for the European Parliament. There were many cases, as we travelled across the European Union in our quest to find out what had happened, where people said ‘thank goodness you are organising a public inquiry’. This is the  true public inquiry into foot and mouth. It gave the general public an opportunity to voice its opinion. That is what it was about and what I had hoped to achieve. I shall read from a letter we received from the National Foot and Mouth Association. ‘May it suffice to say that without this report, many would not have been able to deal with the epidemic and its effects.’ The epidemic had a catastrophic effect on people’s lives right across the European Union, not just those in the agricultural business, but many people in the whole of the rural community. At this point I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, Mrs Redondo Jiménez, the Chairman, and the Commission which helped us tremendously in the Foot and Mouth Subcommittee, working with us every single day. I would also like to thank those people who submitted evidence to the Foot and Mouth Subcommittee. We covered businesses right across the European Union. There were people from the United States and many other countries. On one occasion some of my colleagues were sitting there almost with tears in their eyes while listening to the evidence being given. One lady summed it up when she said ‘they have taken away our dreams’. That was a direct reference to the British Government. This must never happen again. This is why this temporary committee was set up. Yes, the report has been critical of the British Government and, yes, it has attacked it on many aspects, but if the government made mistakes we, as a committee, had to look into it. The report would have been wrong if it had not looked into it and then made a judgement because the whole principle of the inquiry was that we needed to know what had gone wrong – and things had gone wrong – and then put forward proposals. We needed to see how we could put in amendments to the proposals that Mr Byrne is going to bring out. I look forward with great interest to what Mr Byrne will say. I have one criticism of what he has just said – and here we will have to agree to disagree. In the United Kingdom, we still only have two dogs – in fact they are still in training – to check imports, compared with the 3 000 people in the United States to cover illegal imports. Mr Byrne said that he was against any proposal that would control imports from countries where FMD is endemic. I would say to him that we still do not know where this outbreak originated. We do not know exactly how it was brought into the United Kingdom. One thing we found out was that the US, Australia and New Zealand still do not have foot and mouth and they control their imports wholly. I will sum up by saying that we need to change legislation, but we need to change attitudes – welfare, transport, imports. I know the Commission values the findings of this report and I look forward with great interest to its own report. Mr President, first of all I should like to say to the two Commissioners here – one of whom was in Cancún – how well and hard they worked to get a solution to the WTO negotiations. Where do we go from our new position? Mrs Mann said, quite rightly, that we will have new people, both from America and from the European Union. We must make sure that people understand the position in which the European Union has put itself. Commissioner Lamy said in his speech that we have correctly reformed to move forward. How right he is. One of the reasons for the failure of the Cancún debate was its use and misuse, for example by NGOs. I have two press releases, one from Oxfam and the other from Friends of the Earth, one of which states that the G21 today refused to accept European plans to expand the WTO and bring in new negotiations to liberalise investment. Mr Rübig talked about small and medium-sized enterprises, the very things that are needed within the European Union and within the developing countries to help them. They are the backbone of their future. The other press release mentions bullying. Could I ask this august House whether our two Commissioners look like bullies? Have they been throwing their weight around the WTO trying to bully the emerging democracies into submission? Not at all. We reformed. Commissioner Fischler worked hard on the reformation of the common agricultural policy. That is the way forward. We must get the message across: the European Union is there to negotiate. Commissioner Lamy has put forward 'everything but arms' in the new proposals that are helping these underdeveloped countries. We must get these points across and make sure that we have multilateral discussions with EU involvement. At this point, I must say how well the European Parliament meetings in Cancún were received, and how well we were supported by some of the developing countries. It is important that we play a strong and future-oriented role in the next negotiations. I rely on the new negotiators, whoever they may be, to make sure we get that point across. Mr President, I thank Mrs Grossetête for her excellent work on this report. The tragedy is that human and veterinary medicines have been confused rather, because both of them are combined in one report. We should really be looking at them quite separately. I will come back to that in a moment. On that score I agree totally with what Mrs Doyle said. I would like to take this opportunity to thank both the UK and the Irish Permanent Representatives for their work. It is a pity that their work on this report has been rejected by some Member States. The Council's co-called common position is not at all a compromise: it is merely a way of expressing the Commission's original proposals, and the Commission has made it clear that any listing of products arising from comitology proposals will largely be under its control. The common position would mean, as Mrs Doyle quite rightly said, that many rural small businesses would be put out of business. That is of particular importance. There has been huge confusion here  and this is where the Council seems to have got it totally and utterly wrong  that we are asking for exemption for prescription medicines. That is not the case: they are already covered under food safety regulations and completely off the record as far as we are concerned. We are not asking for that sort of thing. Mrs Doyle quite rightly said that while you can go to the chemist's and get a pill for a headache, the problem is that in the United Kingdom and Ireland you can go to similar locally registered people where you can get flea powder, teat-dip for cows  all those sort of things. And we are going to put at risk not only animal health but also animal welfare and the whole principle, because people just will not bother to pay the money for a vet. That is very important. This is already covered, as I have already said, by legislation. In the United Kingdom we do not eat horses, dogs, cats, or budgerigars for that matter, so these should not apply. I would say to you that if you cannot accept this sort of proposal then maybe we should have taken veterinary medicines out of this particular proposal and had a separate piece of legislation for it. In fact, tomorrow, if you are not prepared to accept what Mrs Doyle and I are saying, it might be an idea to vote against this particular piece of legislation and send it back to committee. – Thank you, Commissioner, for coming today. It was my request in the Agriculture Committee that we had a debate on this and I much appreciate your coming. I also echo Mr Adam’s feelings. I would like to express my heartfelt sympathies to those in Britain affected by it and my sorrow that we may have exported this disease. On that note, I would like to say how worried we are. However, it is vitally important that we use everything within our power to stop a future occurrence of this. I want to know whether or not you will be looking – and you did indicate this in your speech – at strengthening phytosanitary measures so that we can have healthy, safe food within the United Kingdom and within Europe. Could the Commissioner answer two quick questions. Has the British Government applied for full funding from the EU, using agrimonetary systems and other systems, and what is the position of sheep in Germany? Have we finally sorted the problem of infected sheep? Mr President, I welcome our Commissioner, Mr Byrne. I am deeply concerned about some of the issues that have been raised in this meeting today. Is this a matter of public health or public safety, or is it just a trade issue? I strongly believe that this is a matter of public health. I should like to ask the Commissioner how long it took him to decide to ban chicken from coming into the European Union? Is chicken that is still in transit coming into the European Union, or has that also been stopped? We heard from Mr Parish that there is a problem of cooked and chilled meats coming in. Why has it not been decided to ban all meats coming in? It is said that the flu virus is killed at 70 degrees – given an absolutely perfect situation – but we do not know how these products are cooked. Can you, Commissioner, guarantee the safety of children in my constituency? For example, schools in Bedford are using Thai chicken to prepare meals for the pupils. Can we totally guarantee their safety? I have three direct questions for you, Commissioner. What are you doing to ensure the safety of meat coming into this country? How many qualified inspectors do we have today on our borders, checking the safety and quality of products coming into the European Union? You were asked what you were going to do about labelling. Can we guarantee the consumer that labelling will show the country of origin of production? It is particularly important that you look at this, Commissioner. This is not just about trade, it is about health. Mr Nicholson mentioned feathers. Have you stopped the import of feathers as of today? – Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for making sure that EU funding is available to the British Government to help them in this tragedy. Could the Commissioner tell me whether the British Government has applied for all the EAGGF funding available to them? In the past it has not bothered to take this. Has it taken advantage of this for this current national tragedy? Mrs Doyle said that it was a crisis. Indeed it is a crisis: 225 cases at present, a quarter of a million animals to be slaughtered! Our minister said on television three days ago that it is under control. Could the Commission tell me whether it is under control? Could I also ask what the EU is doing? Has the British Government approached the EU for some sort of consensus on how we stop this spreading across Europe? I noticed when I travelled into Europe the other day there were no disinfectant mats, there were no bloodhounds checking whether I had a ham sandwich in my pocket, no questions. I know that when you travel to other countries you are questioned about what you are carrying. Has the veterinary advice been coordinated? We seem, as Mrs Doyle said, to have a huge variation between Member States across the European Union. Is it safe to transport infected carcasses across the United Kingdom as we are doing at the moment? Finally, has the British Government been particularly lax about stopping imports from countries where the disease is endemic? – Unfortunately, Mr Whitehead has stolen my line. I totally agree with him that if a Commissioner, with today's modern transport methods, cannot get to a meeting in time we should be holding all our part-sessions in Brussels. () However, I would like to move on to the point made by Mr von Wogau and also Mr Goepel’s very important point. The suggestion that Council may have taken a decision already without Parliament is particularly important. I am not sure about that. I have the conclusions here from the Presidency and the Council meeting. When the Commissioner arrives, I would like to have a clear statement from him saying whether or not the Council has taken a decision on beef labelling. Otherwise, there is no point at all in our debating it and making fools of ourselves. .  Mr President, the Commissioner has beaten me to it and said virtually everything I had planned to say. He and I are very much in agreement on this matter. Before I start, I wish to add to what the Commissioner said about the Food Safety Authority, which is of fundamental importance. It is a plea to this Parliament and to the Commission and everyone concerned that there should be sufficient funding to ensure that the Food Safety Authority can do its job. The committee felt very strongly about that. I fully welcome the proposals on harmonisation of maximum residue levels in foodstuffs throughout the European Union. For too long there have been variations from country to country. As the Commissioner said, it is very important that a product consumed in one country should be just as safe in another country. It is to this end that I have worked closely with the Commission and the Council. I would also like to add my thanks to Mr El Khadraoui, the Socialist shadow rapporteur, because we managed to table a number of compromise amendments which, with his help and help from other Groups, have alleviated some of the problems, because there were a number of disagreements. As I said, my aim was to produce something that would not only lead to safety, but would also be workable and sets workable standards. As the Commissioner said, I have taken a lot from Directive 91/414/EEC, which covers plant protection products, and I wish to add to that. I am sure that the committee will – as far as possible, as we resubmit amendments – feel that they are important for the functioning of this legislation. I said that we are resubmitting some: we are not resubmitting all the amendments that failed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, because it was rather pointless. I will now go through the amendments we are resubmitting so that colleagues will understand why we are resubmitting them. Amendments Nos 74 to 78, which deal with temporary MRLs, bring the legislation more into line with Directive 91/414/EEC. I feel certain that we have managed to do this in a way that does not compromise public health, because public health is the precise aim of this piece of legislation. Amendment No 74 explains why temporary MRLs are needed. Producers have four years from inclusion of full product dossiers for re-registration. Amendment No 77 deals with the practicalities; the four-year procedure will be used only when Member States request it, and then it will depend upon them showing the necessary research on the product. This amendment fell by three votes in committee, but, if Parliament were to adopt it, it would really add something to the legislation. Regarding amendments resubmitted by colleagues, Amendment No 67, concerning the setting of MRLs, covers vulnerable groups. We are all aware that vulnerable groups need protecting, but again existing legislation covers that and therefore there is little point in agreeing on that amendment, even though I am sure my colleagues will disagree with that. At no time would Parliament ever take out legislation that supported that. Amendment No 69 concerns integrated pest management. There is no such thing as a set of standards on integrated pest management. There are, however, different types of farming, and therefore it would be misleading to say that it favours non-chemical methods, because agriculture is agriculture. No farmer – and I speak as a farmer – wants to use chemicals unnecessarily. I would add one last point that is of particular importance. One of the amendments tabled by Mr Lannoye concerns import tolerances. This is of particular importance because my brain tells me that we should not accept this amendment. My farmer's heart, however, tells me that we should, because it is a legal way of stopping imports into the European Union. I shall use my common sense and recommend that we vote against Mr Lannoye's amendment. My final point is addressed to the Commissioner: for those who have food, there are many problems; for those who do not, there is only one. – I support the cautious approach which the Commissioner has taken and is taking in this matter, firstly because this is not a simple issue. It is complicated; it is always difficult to determine the origin of any goods and where they come from. No less so in the Middle East because there you have a situation where there are many joint ventures between Israel and Palestinians, where produce in some cases is partly manufactured in the Palestinian area and in the State of Israel and these developments are good things, they augur well for the future because if trade is being done in this way in the Middle East, then that will be the bedrock of any peace agreement. Therefore, because it is not an easy and simple issue, we have to be cautious and we have to be careful. The second reason why the Commission is right to proceed in this way is that if the European Union wishes to play a part in the area in securing peace then it must be seen to be fair and evenhanded. It would not be fair and evenhanded to rush into a decision without letting the talks and the groups that it is meeting determine what the situation is, both in terms of the area of the State of Israel relating to the trade agreement and, as I say, in relation to the goods and where they come from at the same time. There is I think one final reason why the Commission should be supported. We are at a delicate stage in relation to the peace agreement. You have a government in Israel which wants peace and wants to secure peace and if you proceed in a rash and rapid way then you could jeopardise the success of that peace agreement. You cannot cherrypick in negotiations, this is part of an overall settlement of some extremely complicated issues and I think the Commission is absolutely right to let these things flow through carefully in the hope that by doing so we can secure what all of us want and that is a secure and just and durable peace in the Middle East. – Mr President, this is the second time that I have spoken in a legislative assembly in support of a British Prime Minister contemplating sending British troops into action in Iraq. I did so 12 years ago when the then Conservative Prime Minister, the then Conservative Government, of which Commissioner Patten was a distinguished Member, committed British troops to repel the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. I find myself in the extraordinary position today of supporting a Labour Government, a Labour Prime Minister and a Labour leader of the delegation here in this Parliament in the words that they say and in the actions that they propose. Twelve years ago we stopped at the gates of Baghdad. We did so on a commitment by Saddam Hussein that the weapons of mass destruction would be dismantled. Twelve years later, countless resolutions later, countless promises later, countless inspections later, that commitment has still not been fulfilled. We are where we are today because of that. We have a simple choice: either we believe what Saddam Hussein says and believe that he will still go on to disarm in a voluntary way, or we take the hard, difficult decision to commit the lives of our young men and women to enforce the will of the international community. We may have to do that because, if we do not, we send a message to those who would follow Saddam Hussein that they can get away with it, and we send an even worse message to the great nation of the United States which has stood by this continent in good times and in bad that it is on its own. As Winston Churchill said 60 years ago: 'We are either with the American people, we are part of them, or we are not'. That remains as true today as when it was first said. – Madam President, I rise on the same point of order as my colleague, Mr Sturdy. It is essential that this Parliament should show by example and precept that it follows the same standards that it imposes upon everybody else. It imposes standards on beef in Britain and cheese in France and it must follow the same example in relation to its own conduct. I am perfectly prepared, in an extreme situation, to die for my country and my family. I am not prepared to die from legionnaire's disease because I have to sit in Strasbourg in June. Therefore we should do something about it now and not just talk about it. – Mr President, I would like to counsel, if I may, Mr Solana and my very good friend Commissioner Patten to exercise caution in relation to the Middle East at this present time. I say that, not because I am scarcely an enthusiast for a European foreign policy, but because I believe that at this present time in Israel we are in a very difficult situation. We have an election and I must remind the House that the State of Israel is the only democracy that exists in the region and that is something that is worth noting. We have an election for a prime minister which will be crucial in relation to the future of the peace process so we must take care not to be seen as interventionist or interfering. I remind the House, because I gather there is much fear that Mr Sharon may be elected prime minister, that the peace process in the Middle East, from the Israeli point of view, has always advanced under the Israeli right and it was Menachem Begin who started the rapprochement with Egypt. I ask the House and I ask the Commission and the Council to proceed with caution. I ask the European Union to do what it does best. It has an influence over the Palestinians and it should exercise that influence. It should be asking Chairman Arafat, for example, why the Palestinians permit in their textbooks the sort of anti-semitism which I hoped we had long put to one side in this world. We should be asking Chairman Arafat to ensure that the aid that goes to the Palestinians goes to those who really need it. So, in small measures and not in large – because the United States must take the lead in these matters – the European Union can play a role, but it should not exaggerate its importance. The role is with the parties themselves, assisted by the great republic across the Atlantic. – Mr President, on the point made by my friend Mr Tannock, concerning the failure to have a proper debate on the proposed resolution on the Palestinian Authority's spending of EU funds, this is not a question of legality. I am sure the Rules were complied with. I have no quarrel with that. What does concern me is the political aspect. 170 Members of this House simply asked for a debate and a small group of people decided, in a closed session, that there would be no debate. If we are democrats and believe this Parliament has meaning, then we should allow debate to flourish. That was a mistake and it is a bad signal to send, not just to Members but to the wider public, who now know that, despite the force for that resolution, a small group of people denied them the right to be heard. That was an error of judgement, and not of legality. – Mr President, on a point of order. May I ask you to ask the President of this Parliament to note that a vote took place here yesterday for a full inquiry into foot-and-mouth disease in the United Kingdom. The vote for that was carried because the British Labour Government refused my constituents an inquiry into that terrible disease. In this Parliament yesterday the British Socialists … . I voted against the resolution in relation to the World Conference against Racism in Durban to make it clear that this conference has done the gravest possible disservice to the promotion of good race relations. The conference was hijacked by those whose sole objective was to attack the state of Israel and to ignore the fact that it is the one nation in the Middle East based on democracy. Israel was singled out by countries and organisations which have an appalling record on human rights. Even worse the language and the tone of the attacks had more in common with ‘Der Stürmer’ in the Germany of Adolf Hitler. And yet despite this no condemnation of the United Nations or the conference for allowing this to happen. The United States made it clear that it would take no part in these proceedings. The European Union should have taken a similar view. That it failed to do so was a sad reflection on its failure to learn the lessons of history. – Madam President, this is the first or maiden speech that I shall make in this Chamber and in the tradition of the House of Commons from which I came, I should normally spend a great deal of time talking about the beauty of my area. But time does not permit it and I shall simply content myself by thanking those who sent me here for doing so and saying that I will try and serve their interests as best I can. I shall not vote for the Prodi Commission. Firstly, despite my fondness for my former parliamentary colleague, Neil Kinnock, my party and I made a commitment at the European elections that we would not support any Commission which had within it previous members. Although I do not expect anybody else to support that, I hope those who disagree will understand that in a democratic society when you make a commitment to people who elect you, you try and comply with that commitment when you get elected. Secondly, I shall not vote for this Commission because I do not believe that in real substance anything has changed in the last few weeks as a result of the hearings which we have had. We have not had enough time to question Commissioners; we have not had enough time to follow up with an interrogatory process. There has been not one individual vote in any committee on any Commissioner, not one Commissioner has been forced to withdraw as a result of the questions as to his suitability and not one Commissioner has accepted any sort of responsibility for the events of the past. Because we cannot vote for individual commissioners tomorrow and because I cannot individually record my vote in this Chamber that my colleague Mr Patten would make a fine Commissioner for External Affairs, I am left with simply no choice but to vote against this whole Commission in order to send a message to Mr Prodi and his colleagues that if and when they are elected they will respond to this Parliament; they will accept that it can no longer be business as usual and that we have to change our ways if we are to give the people of Europe the confidence they must have in this Parliament and its institutions. – Mr President, on a point of order, we are facing a threat to world peace. This is a most serious situation. This Parliament proves its utter irrelevance by having a two-hour-only debate to discuss this matter with no possibility to 'catch your eye', thus allowing a limited number of Members only to make a contribution. If this Parliament is to be relevant, it has to allow more time for all points of view to be expressed. It is unfair that it is limited only to the leading players in Parliament and that ordinary Members do not have an opportunity to contribute. . Conservative MEPs accord a very great importance to issues of parental responsibility and the protection of children. It is, unfortunately, an unavoidable fact that the European Community is working towards the establishment of a common judicial area. However, we believe that parental responsibility should remain the right of a parent within the competence of individual Member States and, as such, cannot support a report which gives the Council the right to instruct Member States to hand over their autonomy in this area. . SOS Democracy rejects the Charter of Fundamental Rights on three grounds. First, that it is unnecessary. Second, that it is undemocratic. And third, that it is likely to restrict, rather than enhancing, the freedom of Europe's peoples. We shall offer a brief explanation of these three objections in order. Ratifying the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms would be one of the most ambitious steps ever taken by the European Union. Before doing something of such magnitude, we should ask the question: where in Western Europe is the monstrous violation of human rights that this document would address? We are dealing, after all, with 15 modern democracies, not with 15 Rwandas. Every Member State is already bound by the European Convention on Human Rights, the UN's Universal Declaration and a host of lesser accords. Why does the EU, as such, need to muscle in on this territory? No one has yet answered that question. Indeed, Roman Herzog, president of the drafting convention, has gone out of his way to claim that the Charter will not create any new rights. If so, it seems strange to enact so great a constitutional revolution for such small purported gain. Human rights may not be under immediate threat in the EU, but accountable democracy is. The Charter will involve the European Court of Justice in a number of political decisions, in fields as diverse as employment law, extradition policy, immigration and the family. To the extent that no one has elected the judges, this represents a diminution of democratic government. More than this, the Charter will oblige the ECJ to strike down national legislative acts, or even provisions of state constitutions, in several new areas of policy. Since the ECJ, on the basis of the far more restricted text of the existing European treaties, has already displayed a worrying tendency towards judicial activism, this problem is likely to be especially acute. Even those who accept the case for a written EU constitution should hesitate as they contemplate some of the Charter's provisions. Of greatest concern is Article 52, which provides for the rights referred to elsewhere in the document to be set aside where they conflict with the "general interest recognised by the Union". This reintroduces the concept of "" which the Council of Europe has spent the last half-century seeking to eradicate. The right of a government arbitrarily to set aside its own constitution is the defining characteristic of a tyranny. In Nazi Germany, for example, this provision existed under the so-called "Enabling Act". Less dramatically, but no less important, the Charter is badly drafted. Take, for example, Article 21, which prohibits "any discrimination based on any ground such as sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language, religion or belief, political or any other opinion, membership of a national minority, property, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation". Taken literally, this article would mean that a socialist party would not be allowed to discriminate against conservatives who wanted to run as its candidates, or that an opera company would have to offer soprano roles to men. How such vaguely drafted provisions will be used in the hands of an activist court is anyone's guess. Human rights are already respected in the EU, and safeguarded by national constitutional provisions according to the different customs of the Member States. The Charter now provides a mechanism to circumscribe or override these rights, without even pretending to offer any new ones. It is a proud boast of many Europeans that we are free to do anything which is not expressly prohibited in law. Yet now it is proposed that we be "given" our rights by European judges. SOS Democracy rejects the notion that we should depend on the EU to bestow our own freedoms upon us. In the words of Aldous Huxley: "Liberties are not given: they are taken". – Mr President, I am a friend of Israel and I am proud to be so. I am also a candid friend of Israel. Those are two words: 'candid' and 'friend'; so let me be a candid friend to Israel first of all. Yes, Israel must accept that there has to be a Palestinian state in secure borders. Yes, Israel must withdraw from the territories which it has occupied these past few weeks. Yes, Israel must allow the investigation of what happened in Jenin to take place, provided that investigation is fair and balanced and takes a view which is objective to all sides. Yes, I say to the State of Israel that I am not entirely convinced that the action which it has taken these past few weeks will succeed in the object which it sets itself, because I fear it may have created more people who want to engage in suicide missions. So there I am, the candid friend to the State of Israel. But as a friend of Israel, I am also entitled in this Parliament to speak up for it. I say to this House that it has to understand that what Israel has suffered these past months, the murder of 418 innocent men, women and children, is almost too much for any democratic state to have to bear. What is Israel expected to do about that almost daily assault on its innocent citizens? What is Israel expected to do when it is surrounded by countries who do not even, to this day, accept its right to exist? I support the Saudi peace plan, but it is a shocking comment that it has taken nearly 53 years for some Arab states to come forward with a plan which actually recognises the State of Israel. Israel, too, must face a situation with Yasser Arafat, where he not only does nothing to prevent the terrorist actions taking place, but there is the strongest possible evidence that he is actually complicit in what has happened. That is unacceptable in a partner with whom any state, any government is expected to negotiate. I say to this Parliament that after the events of September 11, we took a view in the civilised world that terrorism was indivisible. Yes, people had rights, but terrorism was unacceptable, there was no such thing as a good terrorist. We must keep that proposal solid, because if we fail, if we say terrorism is OK if it is in the Middle East, but not if it is in the United States or Europe, then we are making a mistake for which we will suffer. The way towards peace and the way for Europe to contribute towards peace is to use its influence in the area, particularly on the Palestinians, and to say to them, yes, there should be a Palestinian state, yes, there should be a State of Israel, but both must have security throughout the years to come. Mr President, the dramatic events of the weekend should not go unnoticed in this Parliament, so let us send our congratulations to the forces of the United States and Britain and other coalition countries whose valiant efforts have ensured over the weekend that the tyrant Saddam Hussein is now in custody. Those two countries and others have ensured that democracy and freedom can flower in Iraq, where perhaps in the past they would not have done so. Secondly, echoing the comments made by Mr Helmer, we should congratulate the Polish and Spanish Governments on ensuring that this wretched Constitution may be delayed.  Perhaps that view may not get cheers inside this Parliament but it will get many cheers in the homes and streets of the countries we all represent. Let us welcome that move and congratulate them on their achievement. Mr President, we in the British Conservative Group have a strong commitment to protecting our environment and this is an important directive which is capable of doing good both for the environment and for business. However, like many pieces of legislation it could be many years before we see the full impact of it. It is important, therefore, to take the longer view. On the one hand, unfettered commercial activity, as we all know, can destroy the environment. On the other hand, over-regulation closes down commercial life at a stroke. It is precisely this commercial life which we all depend on, on which our culture and our society is based. The second reading position is an excellent starting point and one which we support. However, there are very important points which we need to bear in mind. The first is the absolute necessity to allow the permit and state-of-the-art defences to remain. It would be terrible to see companies in 20 years' time facing prosecutions for things which they did now, which are later judged to have been wrong. I am very concerned also about the workability of the compulsory financial security, whether it is in the form of insurance, bonds or other forms of security. We know perfectly well that the insurance industries are not yet able to offer schemes which would meet the needs of this Parliament or the Commission in bringing forward this legislation. We also know that it would lead to a disproportionate burden on small businesses. Do we wish to be responsible for making small businesses go under because we are putting this compulsory liability on them? Indeed, mention has already been made of the taxpayer having to bear the burden, but if we made this compulsory, it would be Member State taxpayers who eventually would have to stand in place to guarantee this. It is much better to leave this on one side for now and see how the directive begins to work and come back to this in the future. Nor can we be certain that pollution will respect the boundaries of the EU, however large the EU becomes. It is important, therefore, certainly with nuclear matters and pollution at sea, that we use those models to carry on with our international obligations and work with our other partners around the world. Too often the best is the enemy of the good with legislation. We need to be moderate in what we try to achieve today. If we keep with what we are proposing in the common position, this piece of legislation can do some real good and should be welcomed and we welcome it today and we wish to see the directive in place. Mr President, I am going to have to interrupt this consensus debate, because I am afraid I cannot support Mrs Honeyball’s report. Despite the protestations of the Commissioner, it is plain that this report is about harmonising taxes: it  seek to produce a harmonised regime for vehicle taxation in the European Union. I do not think we need that for cross-border trade; there is no necessity there. I strongly believe that taxation is a matter that should remain within the remit of the Member States. It is of fundamental importance to ordinary people across Europe that they are free to elect the people who set their taxes. Real democratic accountability on taxation therefore requires that decisions about our taxes be taken by the governments that we elect, and not by the European Union. I find it surprising that Mrs Honeyball is supporting so warmly a report that promotes tax harmonisation on the very day that Gordon Brown is all over the Daily Telegraph saying that he does not like tax harmonisation. Our government and our Labour MEPs should try to ensure that they have some kind of consistency, because indeed Richard Corbett, as recently as this week, said 'Tax harmonisation? What is all the fuss about?!' I say this is a fundamental constitutional principle. Time and again, the Commission comes to this House and claims that this is just a technical matter, that it is just about the internal market. We are assured that we need not worry and that it does not really affect our democratic right to set our own taxes. The cumulative effect of these proposals is to strip the Member States of very real and serious powers regarding setting taxes and to remove democratic accountability from the setting of taxes, which is dangerous for democracy and is certainly unacceptable to those who elected me to represent them in this House. – I am very grateful to be able to follow my colleague, Philip Bushill-Matthews, because I share many of the concerns he has expressed. I think that this proposal reflects no credit on the European Union or on this House. I think if the European Union – and indeed if the European Parliament – wishes to be taken seriously by the people of Europe then this is exactly the sort of legislation which it should cease to enact because we all know that health and safety and workers’ safety is a priority for all Member States, and so it should be. But there is no justification for a Europe-wide standard on this issue. There can be no reason why Member States, acting in a uniform way, would necessarily be able to tackle this problem more effectively than individual Member States and, above all, there can be no reason for taking such a close interest in ordinary aspects of people’s working lives. It can make no sense to legislate on how Europeans are permitted to climb ladders. This should not be the priority for this House. It is too great a level of detail for this House to involve itself in and it will merely lead to the ridiculing of the European Union because this is just the sort of interference which is deeply unpopular with many citizens across the European Union. Instead of engaging in this sort of interference, we should be addressing those issues where it is constructive for Member States to work together and develop some common standards. A common and uniform and centralised standard on how you climb a ladder is not necessary and it is an undesirable interference with the way people run their work environment. We can trust the people of Europe to decide for themselves how they climb ladders. I believe that it is not necessary to conduct a risk assessment every time it is proposed to use a ladder. As anyone working in the home can tell you, ladders are used very commonly and very frequently and, yes, there are accidents but I do not believe this kind of directive will ever eliminate those accidents. All it will do is add yet another layer of European bureaucracy and red tape to be dealt with by a business community already suffocated by the weight of red tape. As my colleague has said, it is time for a change. It is time for this Parliament to start addressing the issues which are of concern to the citizens of Europe and to stop addressing itself to detailed questions where it can be of no assistance in actually securing worker protection. In fact, all it is doing is bringing itself and the European Union into disrepute and burdening European businesses with a layer of cost and bureaucracy that they can ill afford. Mr President, as I hope everyone in this House knows, EUR 5 million went missing at Eurostat. I believe this is an unacceptable waste of taxpayers' money. Taxpayers whom I represent across the United Kingdom's capital – in Barnet, Enfield, Croydon – are concerned that the tax they are paying, which is channelled to the European Commission, is not being properly accounted for. This is a situation that has gone on for far too long. Just a little over five years ago it was said of the Santer Commission that it was difficult to find anyone with the slightest sense of responsibility. It saddens me that the situation has not changed and it saddens me that so many people in this House voted for business as usual. For these reasons I voted to support this motion of censure because it is unacceptable that the Commission should continue to evade responsibility for its actions and vital that it should continue properly to police the funds which the taxpayer entrusts to it. – Mr President, the British Conservatives do not believe that the Commission's proposal should be diluted, postponed or reviewed. We support the liberalisation proposed by the Commission. We believe that in the UK consumers have paid too much for their cars for too long and this Parliament should not postpone the cheaper car prices which will be the result of a more competitive market. Parliament should remember that though we must be sensitive to the concerns of small businesses, every dealer who writes to us probably has 100 or 500 or 1000 customers, whose interests we must also consider in this difficult debate. I believe that a ban on location clauses is essential to delivering a competitive framework in the EU car market. Without the ban on location clauses, we would see almost no change from the present position, because without that ban consumers would still have to travel to another country to use a non-domestic dealer. We believe that we will not see price reductions in the EU unless location clauses go and dealers are free to set up in different EU Member States. If we want to protect dealers, we should be protecting them from anti-competitive practices by car-makers and unlawful and unjustified termination of their franchises by car-makers. We should not be protecting dealers from the market and from ordinary competitive pressures because that is to deny consumers the cheap car prices which they deserve, and which this Parliament should be prepared to deliver to them. – Madam President, I appeal to you to write to the Taliban authorities about the unfortunate case of Shelter Now. Members of Parliament may have heard that a number of aid workers have been arrested by the Taliban authorities, largely on the basis that this is a Christian-based organisation which contravened the Taliban's rules on religious intolerance. I appeal to you to write to the Taliban authorities demanding fair treatment for those arrested and their rapid release. They have committed no crime apart from trying to help Afghanistan and the Afghan people. Afghanistan is one of the poorest and neediest nations in the world and it sets a very frightening precedent if aid workers are attacked because of their faith. It will undermine aid operations throughout the world and especially in Afghanistan. I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the fact that these aid workers, both European and Afghans, may face the death penalty under Taliban law. I urge Members of the House to support an appeal to the Taliban authorities to release those arrested. – Mr President, I should like, first of all, to welcome some visitors from Kent who we are fortunate enough to have in the gallery today. I would also like to thank Mr Karas for all the very hard work he has done on a very difficult report. We have to bear in mind that what we are creating here is an optional scheme for companies and financial service providers to take advantage of if they want to. If we do not create an attractive framework, this directive will be a dead letter because no one will use it. If we overload this directive with prescriptive detail, with centralising details, it will not reflect the diversity of pension arrangements across the EU and, again, we will not have people taking up the opportunities provided by the directive. So where would we lose out if companies decided that they were not going to bother to use this directive? We would lose out largely on the prudent investor principle. A European Commission survey recently said that, had we used this principle across the European Union over the last 15 years, our pension funds would probably have performed at least twice as well as they have in fact performed. Private sector estimates put the increase in the return on savings that could result from using the prudent investment principle at up to 3%. Pension assets could be around 21% larger across the European Union if we had been using the prudent investor principle already. What we have here is the potential for increased return on savings without increased risk. That is a very real and practical benefit to the people who elected us to serve in this House on their behalf. That is a benefit that we should not throw away by piling into this directive overly prescriptive details, for example, on authorisation, on biometric risk, on guarantees. We need to take a pragmatic approach in order to gain those benefits of an increased return for our savers in a first attempt at defusing the pensions time-bomb. – Madam President, I would like to put on record my disappointment that we will not be able this week to discuss the money-laundering directive. Thanks to the hard work of the Conciliation Committee and those in this House who have been working on this directive, we are on the point of an agreement with the European Council, and it is a pity that we were not able to get it on the agenda for this week. This directive is as important in the fight against terrorism as the bombs which are being dropped on Afghanistan or the efforts of those who are risking their lives there. It is something that we should deal with as promptly as possible, because starving the terrorist of his funds is just as important as subjecting him to military attack. I hope this House will act swiftly when this matter comes before it at the next plenary session. I am sorry that it was not possible to get it on the agenda for this month. – Mr President, I, like a previous speaker, wish to refer to the case of Mr Abrahim Khodabandeh and Mr Jamil Bassam, both of whom are residents of Barnet, in my constituency. Mr Khodabandeh – who has been resident in the UK for many years and was granted refugee status – was travelling recently in Syria to assist humanitarian efforts to deal with the consequences of the war in Iraq. He was forcibly removed from Syria and taken to Iran where he and his colleague, Mr Bassam, remain in custody. Mr Khodabandeh's family and friends are deeply concerned about his fate. I ask the House to urge the Iranian authorities to release Mr Khodabandeh, since his deportation contravened the ordinary principles of international law. We are very concerned about the circumstances of the deportation. I urge the House to add its efforts to the campaign to free these two people. Mr President, Commissioner Bolkestein put the history of this debate in just a few words with his usual aplomb. He said that the text has evolved considerably since the Commission first published it. That reflects in a very understated way the radical changes we have seen to this proposal, due in large part to the efforts made by this House. Those changes have the full support of my group and the British Conservative delegation within it. We have campaigned from the start to end the requirement for mandatory, annual shelf registration. We are delighted to see that is one of the 50 of 62 amendments which were accepted by the Commission and the Council. This requirement could have imposed millions of pounds and euros' worth of costs on businesses large and small across the European Union. The original proposal from the Commission could have devastated Europe's small-business stock markets such as Aim markets. The changes we have seen as a result of Parliament's efforts are extremely welcome and have considerably improved the proposal. We have also been campaigning for a suitable framework to cover bonds. It was a concern at the early stages of the text that a 'one size fits all' framework designed for equities was being imposed on the bond markets. Again, we are very pleased to see that the bond market is going to be given distinctive treatment, which reflects the differences between the bonds and the securities market. We fundamentally support the idea of issuer choice. Giving issuers the maximum facility and flexibility in choosing a jurisdiction is one of the best ways to facilitate genuine cross-border trade and genuine integration of our capital markets. We can accept the compromise on this point, though my delegation and probably the group as well would have liked to have been more radical in this area and given issuers a wider choice; in particular, we would have liked to have seen issuer choice and flexibility in relation to equities. Certainly we are delighted to see the flexibility that has been introduced for the bond market. There is issuer choice in the bond markets at the moment and that has contributed to integration of the markets and a building up of specialist regulatory expertise in particular jurisdictions. To require all issuers of bonds to issue in their home Member States would have been a retrograde step in creating an integrated capital market. We are also very concerned to ensure that the language regime cannot be used to protect markets. That was the key flaw in the existing prospectus directive and again we are very pleased at the development of the text. We are now confident that the language regime is acceptable again. We would have liked something a little more radical, but I think there are safeguards which will prevent the difficulties we have seen with the current prospectus directive and make it much more difficult for language to be used to protect national markets. I am also pleased that the scare about the threat to corporate government standards has been dispelled. It is now quite clear that the prospectus directive will not prevent Member States from imposing the high corporate government standards that exist in many places, for example in the United Kingdom. This debate is also an illustration of the importance of the Commission carrying out extensive consultation in advance of publishing its proposals. The prospectus directive was published without much extensive consultation and it has taken us longer to resolve the issues as a result. I am pleased that the Commission in its subsequent proposals has consulted more extensively and effectively before publication. I hope that is the attitude it will take in the future. – I oppose Mrs Torres Marques' call for harmonisation of VAT, but what I would really like to address is the García-Margallo report on e-commerce. While I applaud Mr García-Margallo's heroic efforts on aircraft fuel, I am afraid I cannot agree with his stance on VAT in e-commerce because I think that the Commission's proposal sends out the wrong signal. We should be thinking out ways to encourage e-commerce and not thinking up new ways in which to tax it. The de facto tax-free status of much US e-commerce must have had a tremendous impact in encouraging the new economy and its phenomenal success in the US. This tax is unenforceable, why should we spend the time and the money and the effort on creating a tax that we cannot collect. The very day a respectable dot.com starts levying VAT, a less respectable dot.com will set up selling exactly the same products without VAT and that is where the customers will go. The proposal is arguably inconsistent with the Ottawa Accord because it provides for different rates for on-line and off-line equivalent products such as, for example, newspapers which would enjoy a reduced rate in their off-line physical form. It will be almost impossible for e-businesses to work out the VAT status of their customers and impossible to work out whether their customers are based in the EU, whether they are businesses or not. And as we move ever closer towards electronic money, even the comfort of a credit card billing address will no longer be available to e-businesses as they try to ascertain whether they should charge VAT to a particular customer or not. The amount of revenue about which we are talking is very small at the moment. There is no need to rush into this legislation. We are talking about the future of Europe's economy, the future of its e-economy, let us take the time to get this proposal right. I would call upon the Commission to rethink the proposal and to think of an alternative way. The preferable option by far is to zero rate European e-businesses to put them on the same playing-field as American and other businesses around the world. – May I welcome the Commissioner to Parliament today on behalf of all of us. We all appreciate the importance of your task in the competition department of the Commission. It is perhaps the most important task of the Commission to maintain free competition and make the market work across the European Union. In the telecoms context it is vital to ensure that consumers get all the benefits the free market can offer them, particularly the low-cost Internet access. The way to deliver that low-cost Internet access, vitally important for the creation of a European E-economy to the people of Europe, is through liberalisation and free competition. We used to regulate the telecom sector through national regulators, but these will wither away in future because we are moving towards a single, global regulator, namely the market. The market is the most effective regulator, providing the best protection for consumers and giving consumers more power than any number of Commission consultation groups. In future we shall want to give the competition mergers department, more work, because the market should play an even bigger role in telecoms than it does at the moment. We want to see an end to the advantages inherited by some of the old state monopolies. I hope you will apply competition law and merger law toughly, but always ensure that you look at each merger on its own merits. Just because it may produce a big player or a big corporation it is not necessarily wrong for the market or anti-competitive. We have to remember that Europe probably will need some large corporations if it is to reap the benefits of the Internet revolution. – Mr President, unlike Mrs Theorin, I do not suggest moving votes and debates to suit my own personal agenda. I will indeed be here to debate my report this afternoon and I will be here when it is scheduled to be voted on tomorrow. The reason why I would suggest that we postpone the vote is because – as Mr Goebbels has said – it is a very important issue. Not only does it raise the financial services issue, it could have far-reaching implications in terms of our procedure, in terms of the codecision procedure and in terms of our relationship with the Commission. That is a vote at which colleagues should be present. I would strongly urge that the vote be postponed until the Brussels part-session. *** .  Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for his kind words and all the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs who worked exceptionally hard on this. In particular I should like to thank Mr Karas and Mr Radwan, Mr Bourlanges, Mr Katiforis, Mr Goebbels, Mrs Cazalet from the committee secretariat and my assistant, Sarah McCarthy, for all the help that they have given me on this very demanding dossier. The goals of the ISD should be competitive, integrated, liquid, transparent and efficient markets with a high level of investor protection. The ISD should not prescribe a particular market structure. It should recognise and be adaptable to the diversity of the different European market structures. It should properly distinguish between retail and professional investors. The type of regulation that is absolutely essential for consumers can be damaging, disruptive and unnecessary if applied to professionals. Rules should always be risk-based, they should be properly costed and they should be proportionate to the harm they seek to avoid. I very much support the emphasis in the Commission's proposal on country of origin, with a qualification that in many cases and in many areas the host country is suitable to deal with branches. I also agree with the Commission's overall aspiration to abolish concentration rules and open up the business of executing share trades to competition between exchanges, between MTFs and between the internal execution platforms of investment firms. Exchanges are not public utilities and they should not be granted a monopoly. Allowing firms to compete with exchanges will lead to more choice for investors, more liquidity, narrower spreads, better prices and lower costs. The markets where competition is already allowed in this way are successful, transparent and highly liquid. Competition in this context will deliver a good deal for the consumer, as it has in so many other areas. I agree with the Commission that the best way to protect investors is through a strong combination of competition, conduct of business rules, conflict of interest rules, best execution rules and transparency. However, there are important areas where the compromise agreed in the ECON committee has greatly improved the Commission's proposal. I strongly urge the House to support the ECON Committee's compromise because these amendments are essential to remedy or, at any rate, reduce some very serious problems caused by the Commission's original text. I strongly support the committee amendments and would only advocate a couple of fairly technical changes. This compromise should be accepted as a package. I would appeal to the House not to seek to destabilise this carefully-balanced and hard-won compromise that was achieved after many meetings, with input from different MEPs from different political groups and of different nationalities. Indeed, at the very heart of the matter, the concept of standard market size was a concept contributed to the debate by the PSE group. I genuinely believe that the ECON compromise would be good for all Member States. There are many people in my country who would say that the compromise does not go far enough to meet their concerns. I would have liked to delete Article 25, but I have conceded that it is not feasible or appropriate, and I have conceded the need for a pre-trade transparency requirement. I believe this compromise will be good for the national interests of Luxembourg, France, Italy, the UK and indeed all Member States. I believe it will be good for consumers. I have had to make concessions, I have moved a long way from my initial position and I would very strongly thank everyone in the committee and in the House who have also made concessions. I can support some of the plenary amendments: 145, 148, 151, 156 and 157, and I will be delighted to continue discussing the other plenary amendments. We had a very serious debate in committee on the word non-professional: a whole range of interest groups from around Europe said they could accept the compromise if non-professional was deleted; now it has been. It is now a balanced compromise which allows a significant pre-trade transparency requirement to go ahead whilst at the same time addressing some of the practical problems with the original proposal - as Mr Bolkestein says, 'in a pragmatic way'. The original Article 25 would have severely damaged liquidity and liquidity is vital for the health of our markets and our economy. This compromise seeks to deal with those practical problems, and reduce any damage that may occur to liquidity, by exempting the small banks and focusing on systematic internalisers, and by reducing counter-party risk. It allows price improvement: without price improvement the compromise is not workable. Only with price improvement will retail customers get the good prices they deserve. The obligation to give the same price to everyone will make internalisation uneconomic. Why should we who are charged with representing the peoples of Europe pass a law to prevent firms from giving good deals to their customers? Finally, it is vital that we accept the committee's amendments on execution-only business. The Commission proposal needs alteration, otherwise it would drive execution-only business out of business by making it uneconomic. I believe investors should continue if they wish to be able to take their own decisions about their investments. They should not be forced to buy professional advice they neither need nor want. This is unnecessary regulation and I would appeal to MEPs to reject it in the same way as the Committee did. – I thank the Commissioner for his very detailed and informative presentation. I very much welcome what you said about the flexibility and evolutionary approach with regard to the internal ratings-based approach. It is vital that this risk-sensitive framework should be potentially applicable to a wide range of credit institutions, both large and small. I also welcome what you said about pooled data, which is essential to ensuring that smaller institutions can take advantage of a new risk-sensitive framework by pooling data with similar, smaller institutions. I further welcome what you said about the modified risk weight curve and retail lending and collateral. All these issues are going to be vitally important in ensuring that the new framework is adaptable to the diversity of large and small credit institutions and investment firms in the European Union. I welcome a risk-sensitive framework. There is no need for a more sophisticated and risk-sensitive framework to be more bureaucratic and costly. At all costs we want to ensure a fair balance for SMEs. There is no need for a risk-sensitive framework to make SME borrowing more expensive. I am confident that if the Commission and Parliament do their work properly we can devise a solution and a new accord which are risk-sensitive, protect savers, encourage systemic stability and ensure that small businesses can continue to have access to loan finance. In many cases I hope that this may even bring down the cost of lending for small businesses. It is vital that we get this right. I look forward to the further exchange of views that has been proposed. There is a great deal more work to be done, but I am encouraged by what I have heard so far in response to the question tabled by myself, Mr Karas and Mr Radwan. .  Mr President, following discussions between the PSE Group and the PPE-DE Group, I would like to put forward the following oral amendment to Amendment No 152: 'The Commission shall assess the need to lay down, at a European level, definitions of central counter-party and clearing and settlement systems. On the basis of this assessment, the Commission shall submit a proposal to the European Parliament and the Council.' – Mr President, I would like to put on record some of the reasons why I voted for the Poos report on Cyprus. I am delighted that Cypriots are being supported in this House. It is vitally important that their wish to join the European Union should be respected. I have some reservations about aspects of the European project, but I am absolutely certain that those countries that wish to join should be allowed to join. Today is an historic day for Cyprus, as well as for the European Union. For too long Cyprus has been the victim of power politics in Europe. It has often suffered at the expense of decisions made by larger and more powerful nations. I know that accession to the European Union is seen by many Cypriots as a path to security and stability and will lead to a situation where Cyprus is at the heart of decision-making in Europe, with a seat at the top table of European decision-makers. I hope that the next few weeks will see the finalisation of the accession of Cyprus and that we will see this small island, which was once a victim in European politics, becoming an equal, respected and influential voice in shaping the future of our shared continent. – Mr President, it is vital to have tough rules to prevent insider dealing and to punish those who abuse the market, including journalists and market practitioners. It is vital to protect consumer investors from the misconduct of market insiders. I would like to put on record my thanks to the Council, the Commission and the rapporteur for taking on board a number of issues in relation to accepted market practices, commodity derivatives and Chinese walls at first reading. But this draft directive leaves a number of very significant problems. It is of very serious concern, as we have heard, to a whole range of journalists and media organisations across the European Union – media organisations that live or die by their reputation for integrity and a high standard of public conduct. I agree that journalists should be subject to market abuse rules. I agree that journalists should be subject to rules that prevent conflicts of interest. I agree that we should have tough enforcement mechanisms to enforce those rules. However, I do not agree with the rapporteur that the Committee of European Securities Regulators is the appropriate body to do this. In the case of journalists, the rules should be enforced by specialist media regulators, who know how the media works and understand the issues that relate to journalists. CESR does not have the expertise to regulate journalists. It has already demonstrated that it does not understand how the media works. The proposals in its consultation paper would have been impractical and unworkable. Special constitutional issues apply to journalists because of the demands and importance of that vital constitutional issue, freedom of speech. It is vital that we respect those constitutional issues. It is at least arguable that, in some countries, giving CESR this role would be unconstitutional and contrary to the principle of freedom of speech. The free flow of information to the markets is absolutely vital in preventing market abuse and protecting consumer investors. If we disrupt that free flow of information to the market, we will be playing into the hands of market abusers. That would be the consequence of allowing CESR to regulate journalists when it does not understand the media issues. Throughout the first reading, MEPs believed that Article 6(5) was not targeted at journalists. Despite this understanding, CESR has indicated it will regulate journalists. This is a test case. This is the first time we have used the Lamfalussy process. We need to use our codecision power to send a clear message to CESR that we will stand up for the prerogatives and powers of the only elected EU institution and support Amendment 7. – Mr President, I and my delegation of British Conservatives welcome the rejection of the Commission's proposal in the previous vote in Parliament, and we regret the current proposal to accept the Commission's proposal, which is flawed. We will be supporting a number of Mr Katiforis' amendments because they make a bad proposal rather better. However, overall, we cannot give our support to this proposal because we do not believe in the upwards harmonisation of tobacco taxes. Tax is a matter for nation-states, for domestic governments, and should remain the preserve of domestic governments, which are democratically elected and democratically accountable, tax being one of the most fundamental aspects of nationhood and statehood. In addition, we are by no means convinced by the health arguments on smoking and tax. We are increasingly concerned that ever-spiralling levels of tax on cigarettes may lead to increased smuggling. Such illegal smuggling of cigarettes from outside the European Union is now causing a great deal of concern and may lead to an increase in smoking, certainly in my constituency and much of the United Kingdom. So the health issues in favour of high tobacco taxes are not clear cut but, even more importantly, we do not believe in the upward harmonisation of excise duties or, in particular, the upward harmonisation of tobacco taxes. Hence, we will be opposing the Commission's proposal. Mr President, I speak in two capacities, first on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. Their rapporteur, Mr Ripoll y Martínez de Bedoya, unfortunately cannot be with us this evening. The Legal Affairs Committee approved the proposal and had no comment to make on it. Secondly, speaking on behalf of my Group about Mr Ettl's report, I would like to congratulate him on the work he has done. He has done a good job and clearly worked very hard on this. As Mr Ettl has said, these are largely technical updates, but still important. We have not had a revision of these directives for nearly 20 years, so we are engaging in a bit of a fine-tuning exercise to modernise and update them. Like Mr Ettl, I will address the two simultaneously as they raise similar issues. I welcome these proposals as part of the wider financial services action plan which is so important for the future of the economy of the European Union Member States and could potentially deliver such great benefits to ordinary people across the European Union. There will be increased competition, increased consumer choice and lower prices in financial products which the financial services action plan can deliver, if we manage to get it right. Like most of that action plan, and based on ordinary single market principles, these directives too are based on the single passport system to enable insurance companies to sell across Europe, so long as they comply with their own home regulations. That is a principle which is, and should remain, at the heart of the legislation we adopt in this area. I welcome this effort to update solvency margin requirements: the rules relating to the capital buffer that insurance companies are required to hold against unforeseen contingencies, particularly high claims and poor investment performance. What we are doing here is essentially a warm-up for Solvency II. The more wide-ranging reform in this area will come with Solvency II. Nonetheless we need to ensure that we get the minor amendments properly sorted out before embarking on the more wide-ranging reform which we will see in the Solvency II regulation. Particularly welcome are the efforts to match regulatory capital more closely with risk profile. This is a principle we have also seen operating in the proposals on capital adequacy and solvency margins in relation to bank and investment companies. The same arguments can equally well apply here in that we are encouraging prudent risk management and rewarding those that manage and reduce risk. I am pleased to see a reference to the use of external ratings removed – it was initially proposed by the rapporteur. We do not necessarily want to rule this out forever, but it is premature to introduce it in this context. It is something we should consider in relation to Solvency II, but it needs more thought and discussion before we can introduce external ratings in this context. I am pleased also that a sensible compromise was reached on early intervention powers, which could be a useful addition to the armoury of the regulators in securing proper prudential supervision. The similar compromise on future profits was also very sensible. We are going to see the use of future profits phased out over an eight- or nine-year period, which will give the industry time to adapt to the new conditions. It is important overall to make the general point that in these proposals, as well as all others we deal with on industrial and financial services, we should make every effort to ensure that they are not overly bureaucratic and that the framework is as easy as possible for firms, both large and small, to operate in. That is the only way we will get healthy competition. Finally, I should like to comment on the timing. It is clear that there is general agreement that we should get on with these reforms as quickly as possible. Mr Ettl did a very good job in coordinating with the other two institutions. Like him, I very much hope that we can sort this out at first reading. It seems to me that we may have been doing some of the Council's homework for it, and tidying up some of those aspects which will contribute to a sensible regulatory framework. I thank Mr Ettl for the work he has done on this. – Mr President, I would like to raise the same point. For nearly 30 years the enclaved Greek Cypriot communities in the northern part of Cyprus have been denied secondary schooling for their children. The result of this is that once their children reach school age, they have to go to other parts of Cyprus to attend schools. This leads to the break-up of families and is designed purely to drive from their homes the few remaining Greek Cypriots in the northern part of Cyprus, which is currently controlled by Turkish authorities. This is a matter on which the European Court of Human Rights has registered its protest and noted that this is a violation of Article 2. I would call upon the House to appeal to Mr Denktash to reverse his decision not to allow the secondary schools to reopen. For too long families in these enclave communities have been deprived of their human rights and deprived of the right to education. Now that there are increasing signs of reconciliation between Cyprus' two communities, and on the eve of Cyprus' membership of the European Union, this is a very good time to show evidence of that reconciliation by allowing the secondary schools to re-open in the enclaved Greek Cypriot communities. – Commissioner, I have some very simple questions for you, which require just a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer in each case. Can you guarantee that the Commission will not seek, under any circumstances, to use qualified majority voting to impose the withholding tax? Can you give the same guarantee in relation to the proposed tax on aircraft fuel, which was discussed in ECOFIN this week, and can you give the same guarantee in relation to corporation tax in the European Union? Are there any circumstances where the Commission would seek to use qualified majority voting on any of those issues? Can you guarantee that the Commission will not use qualified majority voting on any of those issues? – Mr President, all over the world work is being done to resolve long-standing conflicts and bring together communities divided by history and by old tribal enmities and hatreds. Now is the time to devote our time and energy to aiding Cypriots from both sides of the "green line" in finding a solution to a conflict which has lasted for far too long. We all know that special care is needed to ensure that Cyprus is brought successfully into the European Union, and the decisions taken at Helsinki give an added dimension to this debate, with the acceptance of Turkey as a candidate country. I hope that the decisions taken at Helsinki lead to progress on the Cyprus issue. I hope this signals a new era of hope for Cyprus. I hope that Turkey begins to play a constructive role in the Cyprus issue. I am delighted to hear the words of support from the Council and the Commission for the UN and the work it is doing in encouraging proximity talks between the two communities to encourage reconciliation and the rebuilding of trust between the two communities in Cyprus. I very much welcome the Commission's support for that bizonal, bicommunal, federal Cyprus for which the UN has campaigned for so long and which both the Greek Cypriot side and the Turkish Cypriot side should be working hard to bring about. I welcome the renewed warmth in relations between the Greek Government and the Turkish Government. I hope that has an encouraging effect on the Cyprus talks. I hope that the accession money available to assist Cyprus is used partly to promote that reconciliation and rebuilding of trust and that both sides of the divided communities in Cyprus accept and use that money in the spirit in which it is given. We all, throughout the European institutions – in Parliament, the Council and the Commission – should be doing our best to aid Cyprus in its quest to reach a peaceful solution which brings together these two communities which have been divided for too many years. – Madam President, regarding conglomerates I would like to support a number of the amendments adopted in committee. The Commission proposal needs significant revision. In particular, the provisions on material holdings are unduly harsh and would unduly restrict banks and insurance companies in investing in a range of equities. That is particularly important in the context of insurance companies investing their pension funds money. This House has made it very clear that it wishes that investors be given access to a wide range of different equities. These provisions, as drafted, would make it almost impossible for an insurance company or bank to invest pension funds money in other financial institutions because of the harshness of the deductions. I hope, therefore, that the compromises proposed in Amendments Nos 44, 46 and 48 will be adopted. I am not sure we have exactly the right answer yet, but it is clear that the material holdings provisions need to be altered. As regards Article 14 I hope that the Council and Commission will progress the discussions. I know they are having to streamline the administrative process related to conglomerates with third-country parents. As regards prospectuses Parliament should follow the example set by the committee. The Commission's proposal applies a "one size fits all" framework designed for large equity issues to the diverse range of European financial markets. Parliament should amend the proposal in order to reflect the diversity of those markets. Shelf registration should be optional and not compulsory. Just because they use it in the American regulatory system, that does not mean we should adopt it here. As recent events have shown only too clearly, the American regulatory system is not always a good one. We should exempt smaller businesses from part of the proposals, as proposed by the committee, and it is especially important that we recognise that there are particular concerns related to smaller businesses, particularly those which are only raising capital and doing business in one part of the European Union. We should retain the current regulatory framework for the professional bond markets. Where there are very sophisticated markets – indeed one of the most successfully integrated markets in the European Union – it makes no sense to apply protections designed for retail investors in equities. We need issuer choice, otherwise we will have the same problems we have had with the existing prospectus directive. That is essential if we are truly going to integrate the market for capital raising. On market abuse the Commission's proposal has severe problems. I congratulate Mr Goebbels for tackling a number of them. I still have a number of concerns about the directive. There are significant problems with a directive that penalises wholly unintentional conduct, and I hope the Commission and Council will accept the safe harbours put forward by Mr Goebbels in the compromises, which are based on a safe harbour for acceptable market practice. This is particularly important in the context of derivatives, where the scope of the definition of inside information would make it very difficult to hedge ordinary liabilities, relating for example to an interruption to supply or new research revealing details of potential new supplies. If such information is instantly disclosable as "inside information" it would make hedging impossible and the derivatives markets would grind to a halt. I would also urge the Commission, Council and Parliament to look seriously at the amendments we have proposed on that. It is vital to recognise Chinese Walls where the proposal is being switched from a law which can be applied only to individuals to a law which can be applied to companies. It is very important that we encourage firms to take care to restrict the flow of inside information if at all possible, and I am very grateful to the rapporteur for responding to the concerns that I have expressed on this. Chinese Walls can be useful if they are enforced properly. We should encourage firms to use them and enforce them properly. Finally, it is vital that we have proper protection for freedom of speech and for journalists. Hence there need to be some radical changes to the proposals where they relate to the reporting of financial information by journalists. Mr President, firstly I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on this issue. It is topical and Mr Katiforis has brought great insight into this issue. I am particularly grateful that he has taken on a number of the concerns I expressed in my amendments. I hope that a deal may be reached between the PPE-DE Group and the rapporteur. That has not proved possible – so far – but I am sure there is a great deal in his report that we very much support. In a slightly shock reversal of the normal roles within the PPE-DE Group, I found that the rest of my Group were more cautious about the idea of further regulation than I was: usually I am the one in my Group arguing for a more deregulatory approach. What is very important – and it was stated clearly by Mr Radwan, the shadow rapporteur – is that yes, this is an important issue; yes, questions need to be answered about how ratings agencies work and yes, questions need to be asked about whether we should have a registration scheme for ratings agencies. The conclusion the Group came to was that we should not prejudge the outcome of this process. It is important that Members of Parliament and committees look carefully at the issues raised by Mr Katiforis in his report, but we do not want to prejudge the outcome and say at this point that yes, we should have a European registration authority. We in this Group are wary of the cost of regulation. We are concerned about what a significant step it would be to bring rating agencies within a regulatory framework or a registration scheme, and we must be cautious in our response to recent financial scandals. There is a tendency among some financial commentators to assume that we must have further regulation following Parmalat, and the organisations that are most squarely in the frame for further regulation and registration are rating agencies. We should look objectively and calmly at what happened at Parmalat and see what response is necessary so as to avoid any hasty or knee-jerk reactions, because it is difficult to see how changing the scheme or regulation for rating agencies could have prevented the Parmalat scandal. There will always be people who are prepared to break the law, as they were at Parmalat, and no matter how wide-ranging and effective the scheme of regulation, whether it be for hedge funds or rating agencies or whatever else, we are not going to prevent that kind of criminal conduct. We can try and make it happen less often, but it is impossible to prevent. Questions have to be asked about rating agencies and how they function, but it is premature to reach the conclusion that further regulation or a registration scheme are necessarily needed at this stage. . – After more than five years in the pipeline, we have finally voted today on the proposal for a Council directive relating to fruit jams, jellies, marmalades and sweetened chestnut purée. I am delighted that the Parliament has left the Council's exemption on biscuits intact, which means that British favourites, such as the jammy dodger, will not fall within the scope of the directive. The jammy dodger is a fine British institution and many in the UK had feared that the directive would result in the outlawing of this biscuit. It is good to see that not all of Britain's traditions and institutions are under threat from Brussels. Mr President, as we have heard, the Parmalat case was a catastrophe for its employees, for investors, for savers, for its creditors, for its customers and indeed for the financial markets. It is our duty as legislators and policy-makers to see how we should respond to that and to see what we can do to try and prevent that kind of catastrophe from occurring again. How can we ensure that the whistle is blown on this type of criminal conduct before it reaches the catastrophic and disastrous proportions that it reached at Parmalat, before it goes on for years, as it apparently did at Parmalat? I appeal to the House to ensure that our response is proportionate, is measured, and looks at the facts of what happened in a dispassionate way, that we have a thorough analysis of what happened, of what went wrong – if anything – with the regulatory system, and of how we can improve the legal and regulatory framework to try to prevent a Parmalat from happening again. We can be proud of the fact that this process started before Parmalat happened because, as people have said, there have been scandals throughout the world. Enron is the biggest, but there are others throughout the European Union. Few people were foolish enough to say 'well, Enron happened in the USA and we do not have any problems in the European Union'. If they said that they are obviously feeling rather foolish about it now, but that was not the general response here and in the Member States to the Enron crisis. We looked at what happened and responded to it. That will help us because we have prepared the ground to try to tackle a similarly disastrous event within the European Union itself. As many people have mentioned, we need to look at the role played by the professionals – the bankers, the auditors, the ratings agencies – that were involved with Parmalat, to see if in the future there is some way of ensuring that they are not taken in, that they are able to assist savers and investors in detecting this kind of fraud, and that they are properly regulated; and to examine whether further regulation would ensure that they are better able to detect this kind of fraud. But we should not make the mistake of trying to turn auditors and lawyers and ratings agencies into policemen, because that simply would not work. We need also to accept that the kind of obvious criminal and fraudulent conduct that we saw in the Parmalat case is something that can never be eliminated completely. No matter how effective and wide-ranging our system of regulation, you are always going to get fraudsters and criminals who will break the rules. We must focus on better enforcement of the rules and regulations that we have. In many ways, that is a question for Member States. They need to devote many more resources to their police forces, particularly those specifically dealing with financial crime. That is one of the biggest lessons we can learn from Parmalat. We do not necessarily need to introduce a whole range of new regulation, which may in the end just prove to be a burden on those many market participants who are completely honest. We need more cooperation between our national regulators, not a single European Union regulator. The Member States should devote more resources to fighting financial crime and having a large, effective police force to fulfil that task in the future. – Mr President, I am speaking not on behalf of my group or my committee, but on behalf of the British Conservative delegation in the European Democrat pillar within the PPE-DE Group. We do not support the extension of the FISCALIS programme to cover direct taxes, in particular income tax and capital tax. These are areas which should remain a matter for the exclusive competence of Member States. The right to tax citizens is one of the hallmarks of a government. Increasing EU involvement in taxation could spell the death of the nation state. I know the response will be that this is just a technical scheme to exchange information and run seminars for tax officials, but I say it is one more step that takes the European Commission and the European Union closer into the tax affairs of Member States. As Commissioner Prodi himself recently stated, very high political ambitions have often been achieved in the EU as a series of small, almost technical, steps. I suggest that this is happening with tax, in the numerous different tax initiatives and ways in which the European Commission and the European Union are seeking to enlarge their competence over areas of tax. I reject the technical steps that take the European Union closer into the tax affairs of Member States, just as I reject the ultimate objective of allowing the European Union to levy taxes on individuals in the European Union. Democratic national governments should levy taxes. Undemocratic supranational organisations should not. – Mr President, I support the extension of the Lamfalussy procedure in principle and I hope the interinstitutional difficulties can be resolved as soon as possible, so we can move forward and modernise decision-making structures in relation to banking, insurance and financial conglomerates. All the institutions need to work together to make this possible and I hope in particular that the Council will be able to make a declaration signalling its willingness to review Article 202 in 2004. We welcome significant parts of the van den Burg report: its focus on improved enforcement, its call for supervisors to be given some discretion and to be allowed to exercise judgement rather than inflexibly and unthinkingly enforcing rules and ticking boxes. We also support the call for a regulatory cost-impact assessment by the Commission and by Parliament for its amendments. We agree that there is a need for more cooperation between national supervisors and enhanced links and dialogue with the US. On the issue of a single pan-European supervisor, we have some divergence of views within our group. We are united in our view that it would be wrong to set up a pan-European supervisor now or in the medium term. Some of us in the British Conservatives would rule it out in principle, others within the PPE-DE Group would like to keep the option open as a very long-term possibility. I oppose a pan-European supervisor because it would have too much power. The concentration of power in, for example, the UK's Financial Services Authority, is very daunting in itself. A European equivalent would be a bureaucratic behemoth, unable to keep up with the dynamism and innovation of financial markets. A pan-European regulator would not have the expertise to deal with transactions and markets as diverse as, for example, the London derivatives market and the many thousands of small German savings and public banks. An effective regulator must be close to and must understand the markets it regulates. A single enforcer for financial services in the EU would have an impossible job, given the divergence of rules and legal systems across the EU. Financial regulators play a key role in prosecution and criminal justice, and these are matters which should remain within the remit of the Member States. There is so much other work to be done to create a single market in financial services and to really deliver those benefits that the Commission report talked about only a few days ago. EU decision-makers should accept that a centralised solution is not always the best solution. -Madam President, I congratulate Mrs Kauppi on this report. I have to admit that representing London I do not have too many fishermen in my constituency and I am delighted to be able to put forward a few comments on behalf of Mrs Scallon who, unfortunately, cannot be here today as she has a pressing engagement. She has followed this dossier very carefully because of the large fishing industry in her constituency in Ireland. I should like to pass on her and my thanks to the Commission for focusing on this important issue. When speaking to stakeholders in this industry, Mrs Scallon found that they were very concerned about the concept of flagging out, which was one of the root causes of the sharp decline in EU seafarers and the increase in the use of third-country ratings and junior officers. EU crew members suffer a severe competitive disadvantage; with their working conditions of working one week on, one week off with full pay on passenger ferries, they find it very difficult to compete with non-EU crew members working nine months on, and one month off without pay. As a result, there are few training places available for EU junior officers and ratings and, sadly, redundancy is being offered to many in this industry in the EU. In line with many of the points highlighted in the report, Mrs Scallon heard that there was concern regarding the lower standard of EU training and the possible danger to public safety that might be caused by language difficulties with multilingual crews, where no translation was available. Both Mrs Scallon and I would definitely like to see more training places available if we are to stop this decline. Experienced seafarers are also ideal for other temporary, onshore work off-season in areas such as recruitment, training, freight forwarding, insurance and arbitration. As part of the suggested awareness campaign, we should also look at the possibility of funding the promotion of seafaring at secondary-school level. Mrs Scallon closed by remarking that it was sad that even in the fishing villages of her own country, seafaring, rowing and sailing were not subjects which played a great part in the curriculum. That is something that we both regret. . – When a bank fails it has wider-reaching implications than a failure of another sort of business because people's savings are jeopardised and the stability of the financial system can be jeopardised. Therefore, we have special rules to ensure that banks stay solvent and stay afloat and do not fail, and these rules are designed to protect savers and to maintain financial stability. They are globally agreed in Basel but the current framework is out of date because it requires the same regulatory capital reserves. The same amount of money needs to be put aside for a wide range of different risks. This actually encourages banks to opt for higher risks because it means that a bank can go for a higher premium for the same regulatory capital charge. The Commission's new proposal, the main thrust of which the committee warmly welcomes, is that the lower the risk, the lower the regulatory charge. That means banks will be encouraged and rewarded for minimising risk and maintaining proper reserves of capital against their liabilities. We make a number of political demands in our report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Firstly, that the new rules take account of the diversity of the banking and investment sector in the European Union. These rules apply to many thousands of small and large banks and investment firms and must be designed to suit all their needs. The rules should be as easy as possible for these institutions to use. We are moving to a more sophisticated system. It does not need to be a more bureaucratic and complex system. We, in the committee, cautiously accept the role proposed by the Commission for external ratings, with the reservation that this is a role with limitations – most importantly, small businesses will not need to be rated, nor will businesses without a rating be disadvantaged. Nevertheless we believe it is important to state that banks' internal credit scoring and internal rating systems must be at the centrepiece of the new framework. They offer the best way to deliver a risk-sensitive framework over a wide area of the banking sector, as well as to clients and small businesses. We welcome the enhanced status accorded to credit risk mitigation, particularly the collateral which may be offered by small businesses. We also accept that, in the long term, there is probably a need for a new charge for other risks, but we make the point that there should be no such charge until there is a sensible method of measuring other risks. We also accept that there is a need for regulators to have the power to impose particular and additional charges on particular banks. The new framework puts trust in banks. We are not allowing them to set their own capital charges but we would be getting suspiciously close to that if we did not keep a close eye on their internal systems. That is why supervisors need to have these extra powers to impose individual charges, to make sure individual banks are sticking to the rules. Lastly, and most controversially, the committee strongly called for the use of a fast-track procedure to implement this legislation. Amendments have been tabled which take a more cautious approach, but what unites us all is the knowledge that the last time there was a Basel Accord, the United States took three months to implement it and the European Union took over three years. That was not only three years when EU banks were at a severe competitive disadvantage – and there is evidence that they suffered severely – but also three years when European consumers were denied a modern, state-of-the-art regulatory framework. We need to ask ourselves tough questions as legislators, as to whether we are doing the best for the people who elected us if our regulations and laws are out of date before they hit the statute books. We must review all our options, including comitology, fast-track and other procedures, because it is dangerous to be regulating yesterday's markets. That is what we will be doing unless we review our procedures. What we need to ensure is: that we have legislation which is flexible; that we have a means of implementing it quickly; that we have a means of updating it quickly and easily; that we have a means of ensuring consistency across Member States; and that we have appropriate democratic scrutiny of any new procedures introduced. I would call on Mr Bolkestein, here today, to put forward proposals, that Parliament can consider, to address these vital needs. They are vital for the health of the financial services sector in the European Union. – Madam President, on a point of order. I wish to draw the attention of the House to an unfortunate incident which has occurred since our last part-session, and that is the case of Mr Panikos Tsiakourmas. Many of you may be unaware that part of Cyprus is already part of the European Union because Great Britain retained sovereign bases on Cyprus and Mr Tsiakourmas was seized from one of those bases shortly before Christmas. That seizure was an illegal act. Mr Tsiakourmas is now being held in North Cyprus. I would appeal to the House to express its sympathy with Mr Tsiakourmas and his family. He has been accused of a crime of which I do not think he is guilty. However, whatever the merits of his case, the circumstances of his abduction were unacceptable. He was abducted from the territory of a European Union Member State. I would ask the President to express our concern to the Ankara Government about this incident and our hope that this unfortunate incident will not affect the solution to the Cyprus problem and the peace negotiations which are continuing at this moment, and to express our hope that Mr Tsiakourmas will be released as soon as possible. – Madam President, it is a source of deep regret that in a Parliament where a good 85% of people have staked their political reputations on the single currency, we do not have a greater attendance to discuss the performance of this currency. We know that it is 17 times more expensive to make a cross-border transaction transfer in the euro area than it is to make a domestic one. People joining the euro thought that if it did nothing else, it would make it easier and cheaper for them to take their money abroad. We see that this is not happening. This promised benefit has not materialised; and indeed, as the Commission candidly admitted when this report was discussed in committee, no improvement is expected in the situation after the introduction of notes and coins. This is another blow to a currency already struggling, a currency that hits a new low on the international market virtually every week, a currency with the bank president continuously under fire for his ill-judged comments to the press, a currency where, on the only occasion when the people of Europe were asked to cast their vote on whether to join or not, they voted "no" in the recent Danish referendum. We now hear that the printers responsible for producing the notes are threatening to go on strike. Above all, even the most basic benefit that the euro enthusiasts promised the people of Europe, the reduction of transaction costs, is not being realised. What are the benefits for the people of the euro area from this currency that has been foisted on them by a political elite in Europe? This project is not about economics. This project is not about giving practical benefits to European citizens. It is and always has been a step on the road to creating a United States of Europe, a political project. We are seeing that it is failing to deliver any benefits to the mainstream majority of ordinary people in the euro area. – Mr President, on behalf of the British Conservatives and the rest of the PPE-DE Group I would like to say that we strongly support the compromise set out in the von Wogau report and reiterated by Mr Prodi this morning. Parliament has secured significant concessions on transparency, on consultation and on oversight. Parliament's rapporteur is to be congratulated for securing those. Parliament should also express its appreciation to Mr Bolkestein and his staff, and to the Commission, for responding to the concerns that we raised about these matters. Mr von Wogau deserves much praise for drawing to a conclusion the lengthy negotiations that we have had on this important issue. We in Parliament have taken a pragmatic approach. This is a workable interim solution pending final resolution of the whole matter of delegated legislation in 2004, when Parliament could and should ask for a legally binding call-back mechanism, which is desirable but, sadly, not permissible within the terms of the current Treaty and arrangements. It is of vital importance that Parliament backs this compromise when it votes at 12 noon today, because without it we will not be in a position to deliver an integrated financial market – whether in 2004, 2005 or indeed ever. That financial market is not just of interest to bankers; it could also lead to cheaper prices and a wider choice of financial products for consumers and businesses, cheaper borrowing, higher returns for savers and investors, as well as doing a great deal to start defusing the pensions time bomb. All these are highly significant benefits to the ordinary people who elected us to serve on their behalf. Accepting this compromise will bring us considerably closer to achieving our goal of an integrated financial market and delivering those benefits to ordinary people right across the European Union. – Mr President, Mr Duisenberg, we MEPs, as we have stated a number of times this evening, have a unique role to play in relation to the single currency because this Chamber here is the only place in which the people of Europe can have any democratic input into how their new currency is run. We must not shy away from addressing the difficult issues which surround Europe’s single currency, because if we do so we will be letting down those people who elected us to this Chamber so recently. Mr Duisenberg, in my view, you have a more or less impossible task because you have to set a rate that is suitable not only for the booming economies of Ireland and Spain but will also suit the faltering economy of Germany. Still less would it be possible to fix a rate which would also suit the persistently divergent economy of the UK. But none of us here doubt the importance of your role because a domestic Euroland government faced with reviving a faltering economy has very few weapons at its disposal. It has no power to set interest rates, no power over exchange rates, little power over government spending restricted by the Stability Pact and, if many people in this Parliament had their way, it would have no power over its own tax rates. The governments have very few cards left to play with and not for nothing has it been said that the euro could lead to a recipe for stagnation. But we should not be surprised at the limitations on the powers that are left to the domestic governments in Euroland because it has never been a secret of those founding fathers of the single currency that what they had in mind was the creation of political union and a united states of Europe. I welcome your frankness, Mr Duisenberg, in making clear the very big political leap which has been made by those countries which have already entered Euroland. But anyone who denies the existence of this political agenda – which subsumes the single currency – in my view is either deluded or dishonest, because it is a very real agenda. We saw that very recently, articulately presented to us by President Prodi when he said that we now face the best opportunity to unite Europe since the fall of the Roman Empire. Clearly, Mr Prodi had in mind the replacement of an ancient hegemony with a new economic one. But political union may not just be the idle dream of a few federalists. When you share a joint bank account with your neighbour you are affected by the actions and the spending decisions of your neighbour. You legitimately need some control over their actions. There is a very strong argument for saying that the single currency cannot function properly unless there is increased political integration and political union. That is one of the many reasons why the British Conservatives are campaigning vigorously to persuade the UK to keep its own currency and to keep the pound and to stay out of the single currency. – Mr President, rather than talk about the Stability and Growth Pact I want to comment on another subject which was raised at the informal ECOFIN and with which this debate deals, and that is the Member States' ministers' call for Parliament's agreement on the Money Laundering directive. I would like to echo that call for both colleagues across the European Parliament and governments across Europe to reach an agreement on this directive as soon as possible. This has been made all the more crucial by the tragic events of 11 September. Terror that day struck at the heart of the global financial system. The terrorists were clearly prepared to use all the mechanisms and tools that the global financial system gave them in planning that attack. Let us turn those tools against them. Many bankers and finance workers died in that attack. Let us enlist the help of those bankers and finance workers in responding to it and preventing a repetition thereof, because this is a concrete step that we can take in the war against terrorism. No-one is going to ask us to go and die on an Afghan hillside, though others will be asked to pay that price. But we too can – and should – make a contribution, because the bankers, brokers, cleaners, IT technicians, investment advisers, lawyers and caterers who spill off our trains into city centres in Frankfurt, Paris, London and Brussels are just the same as those 5000 or 6000 people who turned up for work in New York one day and will never ever come home. The time has come to stop quibbling about lawyer confidentiality. I call on this Parliament to agree to a directive which will help starve the terrorists of funds. I call on it to agree to the freezing of assets of terrorist organisations, because someone, somewhere, is banking bin Laden's money. We can help starve him of funds, which is as important a task as the military operation which we know will soon follow. Madam President, I want to comment on both of the Commissioner's statements. I welcome the proposal on services. It is a great pity that it does not cover financial services. Unless there has been a last-minute change, these have been left out of the general proposal, which is unfortunate because the general principles of country of origin and mutual recognition, which are found in the service proposal, are applicable in financial services, and it would have been good to have that reinforced by their inclusion in this proposal. The main thing I want to comment on is the Commission's decision today to take the Ecofin Council to court over its suspension of the Stability Pact. This is a serious row, and it has just got a lot bigger today. It is a graphic illustration of the problems you inevitably get when you try to run a single currency across 12 different countries. Those tensions will continue and only get worse, because it really is impossible to run a single economic policy which suits every single one of those 12 economies. Those tensions will get more – not less – significant with the expansion of the eurozone and with the enlargement of the European Union. I hope there is a satisfactory resolution to this problem, but at the moment it is another serious blow to the euro's credibility that the rules are not being enforced by the ECOFIN finance ministers. We were told that these rules were fundamental to making the euro work, the Commission is being forced into this drastic action and the wrangle is set to go on for a great deal longer. In the light of the circumstances we have seen today, it is no wonder that people in the United Kingdom, Denmark and Sweden are all saying a big 'no' to the euro. – Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur. He has worked very hard on this report and it is a good one. The report and the underlying regulation seek to establish clearer and more transparent rules for state aid for employment. Streamlined procedures for Member States wishing to aid employment schemes are to be welcomed and sensitivity to local circumstances is also desirable. The report welcomes and expresses support for the state aid register, which the British Conservatives have made a priority. It is vitally important that we keep track of the various Member States and their record on state aid. In terms of general principles, we believe that it is vitally important to restrict the areas where state aid can be given. I am not sure whether we would go as far as Mr Monti – I believe he has referred to state aids in the past as evil – but we certainly believe that it is necessary to restrict state aid in order to maintain economic efficiency and economic prosperity and a level playing field between companies in different Member States. Having said that, this report and the regulation acknowledge that certain state aids are acceptable and indeed desirable in relation to employment schemes. We are, however, very wary about the degree of extension that can be accepted even in this case, because of our suspicion of state aids. But we believe the Commission has drawn the line at a sensible point. That is also reflected in the report. I would not go as far as Amendment No 1, as put forward by Mr Berenguer Fuster. In particular paragraph (a) of Amendment No 1, which seems to specifically condemn temporary as opposed to permanent contracts, is not appropriate and should not be supported by the House. I ask the House to remember that state aid, in this context, is rather like a Band-Aid or a sticking plaster being applied to a gaping wound. State aid for employment, where it is permitted, as appropriate, by this regulation, can never actually solve Europe's unemployment problems. It is appropriate to permit government state aid for employment schemes in restricted circumstances, but the real way to tackle the 18 million unemployed in Europe, to give people genuine job opportunities, is by labour market reform, by producing structural and economic reform and labour market flexibility, making it easier to hire people. That is the way to deal with the serious and unacceptably high level of unemployment in the European Union. So we accept this as a pragmatic and sensible measure. Both the regulation and the report make sensible proposals, but it is vitally important that we address the key issue, which is labour market flexibility and economic reform. – Mr President, this is a vital issue for Europe. A Europe that faces an impending pensions time bomb must take every step to encourage saving and maximise the return that the people of Europe can obtain on their savings. I welcome many of the developments which Mr Schmidt’s report brings us. UCITS are a success story within the European Union. They are a safe product, traded cross-border. But it is time for the legislation to be updated. Mr Schmidt has done an excellent job here. It is no secret that I would have much preferred Mr Schmidt’s report not to have been altered so much as it passed through Parliament. But I appeal to this House to take a balanced and common-sense approach on this issue. The radical step taken by this report is to allow UCITS to use over-the-counter derivatives. I appeal to everyone here to evaluate the products which will be used by UCITS. We are not talking about the use of derivatives for speculation. We are talking about the use of derivatives to reduce risk and to increase the returns on the savings of ordinary Europeans. Mr Schmidt is to be applauded for having obtained the support of Parliament for over-the-counter derivatives. We must not be afraid to go forward, to react to changes in the market. Yes, we need to continue to ensure that UCITS provide a balanced and protected product for consumers. The report gives very adequate protection for consumers. But a number of the amendments go too far in restricting the use of over-the-counter derivatives. I feel these derivatives will be an addition to the portfolio of unit trusts, which can only help individual people around Europe obtain a high return on their savings. I salute Mr Schmidt. – In 1993, the Commission admitted that the laws on animal transport were being systematically flouted. In 1999, we had further evidence of particular problems in Spain, Italy and Greece. There is no reason to believe that implementation enforcement has improved at all since 1993 or 1999. Animals frequently still find themselves crammed into overcrowded trucks, given neither food nor water, often for journeys flouting the current limits and travelling for up to 30 or 40 hours. The combination of high temperatures, poor ventilation, overcrowding and lack of water can be lethal. Many animals suffer extreme discomfort during transport and arrive dead or dying at their destination. The European Parliament has repeatedly voted in favour of an eight-hour limit on transport. It had the overwhelming support of a majority in plenary. It had the support of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. I am pleased to hear that a proposal will follow the opinion of the Scientific Committee, but what is the Commission going to do to ensure the proposal is enforced properly and to ensure the current laws are enforced properly? What specific actions is Commissioner Byrne going to take to improve enforcement both of current laws and the laws that we hope to see implementing an eight-hour limit and an end to export subsidies? – I too very much hope that Mr Goebbels is going to withdraw Amendment No 4. You want call-back, Mr Goebbels, I want call-back and so does Mr Bolkestein. The fact remains that it is not feasible to have a legal call-back within the terms of the Treaty. Therefore, it is up to us to find a political agreement and a form of words which will do until 2004 when we can review this whole issue. Indeed I believe the Commission is committed to such a review. It is vitally important that we come to this agreement. On Mr Schmidt's report, it is excellent to see the modernisation of the framework for UCITS by the inclusion of derivatives and OTC derivatives. Parliament is leading the way on this, and Mr Schmidt has played a particularly successful role in updating the directives in this way and very much led the way on the derivatives issue. I am sorry to see the capital requirements in the form that they are. I believe that UCITS managers should be subject to capital requirements, but I do not believe those contained in the directive are sufficiently risk-sensitive. I do not believe that they are consistent with the general framework that we hope to implement. I do not think that assessing capital according to risk under management actually reflects the risk undertaken. I am also concerned that this formulation of the directive will produce an uneven market opening, leaving the market closed in one Member State and open in the other 14. But I have been persuaded by the rapporteur and our esteemed shadow rapporteur not to table amendments on these defects because we are very keen to get these two directives on the statute book to modernise the framework for a unit trust and UCITS in the European Union. I commend the directive to the House. – Mr President, in many ways it has been a rather grim year for the euro. I take a rather more pessimistic view than the previous speaker. We have seen the external value of the euro plummet. The interesting issue is to look at why that fall has happened. There are many reasons which have been explored today, but a big reason is that the markets do not believe in a currency without a country. They do not believe in a currency which is not backed by a political institution or a government. This is a very good illustration of the inherent link between economic and monetary union and political union. The one follows almost inevitably from the other. That is one of the many reasons why the United Kingdom should stay out of the euro. But what is vital is that the people across Europe have a debate about the future, a debate about political union. Too often in the past they have been told that changes in Europe are technical. Particularly the idea that a move to the euro was merely an economic choice is, quite frankly, a lie. Every time Mr Blair and Mr Brown say that it is a matter of economics whether the UK joins or not, they are deceiving the British public or they are deeply deluded about the future of Europe. It is only right that in Denmark we are seeing a debate on political union at the moment, as the Danes decide whether to join the euro or not. That is the decision that they are making and that is the decision that is faced by the United Kingdom. I trust that both of those countries will say no to political union and consequently no to economic union as well. It is about time that the European Union stopped intervening and spending taxpayers' money on one side of this type of political debate. It is unacceptable, in my view, for taxpayers' money – for public funds – to be spent promoting the euro in the ‘out’ countries, because they are engaged in a very important political process. To use government funding on one side of the debate would be an interference in this democratic process. I trust that we will vote in accordance with that in the Karas report at noon today. Mr President, as we are addressing the issue of the European economy in the debate on these reports, the point I would like to emphasise is the vital importance of turning the Lisbon agenda from rhetoric into reality. Advances have been made since European leaders declared that they were going to make Europe the most competitive knowledge-based economy within ten years, but there have also been a lot of steps back. It seems to me that a fundamental aim of the Lisbon agenda is to produce economic reform and more flexible labour markets. In many cases, however, we have seen the European Union going in the opposite direction to this aspiration. Labour markets are not made more flexible by measures like the Temporary Workers Directive, which could drive hundreds or thousands of temporary workers out of employment. I am also concerned about plans to phase out some of the opt-outs to the Working Time Directive, which give additional flexibility. Of course it is important to ensure that people do not have to work excessive hours, but there are many aspects of the Working Time Directive that just add red tape and do not give proper protection to working people: these measures just make it more difficult for them to run their lives in the way they would like to. There are other proposals which I think are overreactions: the intention in the Chemicals Regulation, for example, is that one must control and regulate the use of dangerous chemicals, but this should not give rise to the disproportionate reaction we have seen from that regulation. Many items of European legislation are over-intrusive and simply add to business costs. In the end, that will cost jobs for people in Europe and very often mean that consumers end up getting a worse deal and a narrower range of choices. To make the Lisbon agenda a reality we have to cut down on the red tape produced by the European Union. – Madam President, I welcome and support both the reports we are discussing today. They are excellent and I congratulate both the rapporteurs on the hard work that they have done on them. It is vitally important to get the investment services directive right because the rewards will be an increased return for savers and cheaper products for consumers. But the ISD, I am afraid, symbolises much of what is both good and bad about current EU legislation. It is a good idea in theory but it has not yet delivered in practice. It has produced a single market on paper, but not yet a single market in reality. It was supposed to have made it possible for a firm or a company complying with its own home rules to have a passport to trade anywhere across the European Union. It has not delivered that in practice because of differences in interpretation between Member States, because of differences in enforcement between Member States and because of poor implementation. It is really unacceptable that almost eight years after adoption there are still some Member States trying to work out how they are going to enforce this directive. The result has undermined both the country-of-origin principle and the principle of the single passport, because operators still face multiple, overlapping and sometimes conflicting sets of rules when they trade across the European Union – just the problem which the ISD was supposed to tackle. This is really a textbook case of where the single market legislation has not actually delivered. We have an increased administrative and bureaucratic burden, which still leaves different firms facing over 15 different legal systems and rule systems. The conduct-of-business rules have been used by Member States to impose their own host-state rules where they are neither necessary nor desirable and I would include the UK in that. These conduct-of-business and advertising rules have been used to protect markets rather than consumers and the Commission should clamp down strongly on that. I very much welcome the call in the two reports to move to a country-of-origin principle for conduct-of-business rules, for advertising rules, for retail investors and for wholesale investors. I hope the Commission will take note of what Parliament has said because where the Commission can be criticised in its upgrade is that it is too tentative on these vital issues. We should have a country-of-origin approach underlying this directive. I do not see why we cannot trust consumers to pick a product from other Members of the European Union and to be protected by the financial services authorities of those other Members of the European Union. Consumers are receiving proper and appropriate protection from different countries which have been in this very close relationship now for almost 50 years. It is vital to ensure that we are consistent with the e-commerce directive, and a country-of-origin approach will be consistent with the e-commerce directive if we adopt it in the ISD. Any exception to the country-of-origin approach, whether in the ISD or in the e-commerce directive, should be strictly interpreted, narrowly interpreted and should be eliminated as soon as possible. Minor updates to the ISD are, of course, welcome but above all we need a change of culture. The Commission has been far too tentative in enforcement. It is unacceptable that for many years many countries simply failed to distinguish properly between professional and consumer investors as is required by the ISD. I would like to see the Commission make full use of its enforcement powers to make sure the current version of the ISD is enforced properly by every single Member State and indeed that the next version of the ISD is also properly enforced. . – Mr President, I would like to speak in favour of Mr Goebbels’ proposal. I leave this matter to the House. It is for you to decide whether you would like to postpone or not. Fridays in Strasbourg are a difficult issue for us, but today because of the sensitivity of the report – it raises issues about the general procedure of the House and our general relationship with the Commission – I personally think it would be better if the groups had an opportunity to vote when there were more Members present. I am sorry that there are not more Members present this morning. I would not ask this if I did not think that this was an important report which requires the attendance of more Members because we are taking important decisions. I know that Fridays are a sensitive issue, so I leave it to the House. But I personally would appeal to you to vote to postpone the vote on this report. – Mr President, colleagues, not since the spread of universal suffrage in the last century has our society faced such a big potential transfer of power. The information society has potential to transfer power from government to individual, from bureaucrat to citizen and, of course, from business to consumer. It opens up a global market place and almost limitless information to anyone with access to a computer screen. It is the biggest engine to break down barriers between communities and nationalities that we have ever seen – bigger than any EU directive can possibly be. It offers more power, more choice, lower prices to citizens across Europe and indeed across the world, and in my view the best thing that governments can do in cyberspace is to stay out of it as much as they possibly can and let consumers, businesses and citizens get on with their businesses and their lives. Legislators cannot keep up with this technology even if they try to. Technology and industry are better equipped to respond to consumer concerns in what is an immensely competitive market. It is that competitive market which will ensure that consumers are protected, not heavy-handed legislation which might stunt e-commerce and leave others around the world to reap the benefits of a revolution in our economy which is unparalleled since the industrial revolution of the nineteenth century. But we all know that we need a base line of government involvement. We need a basic legislative framework for e-commerce. I hope it will be a light-touch framework, but we need to drive it through quickly because the e-clock is ticking and there are many organisations around the world fighting for this business. It is in our interest to make sure that we get the answers and our legislation right, but also to get them through quickly. We in this House should drive through the e-commerce directive with its country of origin principle as fast as we possibly can. We should adopt new rules on jurisdiction which trust consumers to make an informed choice about which jurisdiction they want to opt for. We should drive through the liberalisation of the telecoms package, because it is only with a low-cost competitive telecoms market that we can deliver this power, these low prices and these big opportunities to our consumers, because that is the only way to get low prices for our consumers. We want to build on Europe's lead on mobile telephony and adopt the examples of such great global players as Finland's Nokia. Member States should build on the IT skills concepts in their schools, but we must do this quickly because if we do not, others will take the prize on offer here, which is dominance in the global e-commerce market. – Mr President, on a point of order, you may be aware that a number of Members were unable to take part in votes yesterday because they were delayed for seven hours at Gatwick airport. You yourself will have experienced some of the extreme difficulties faced by many Members in travelling to Strasbourg. In view of the approaching enlargement, are you satisfied that Parliament here in Strasbourg is adequately equipped for the needs of enlargement, given that Members and staff find it very difficult to get here from one of Europe's largest airports? Are you confident that those coming from parts of Europe where the transport links are not so good will be able to travel to Strasbourg? Is it not time you joined the growing number of people who think that Strasbourg is an inefficient and inappropriate place to host a Parliament of this size? I urge you to look into this as a matter of urgency. – This is the key ideological struggle for Europe facing us. This debate, I think, has summed it up. The key political divide has been very obviously stated this evening, and it is no surprise that this issue has polarised the debate in a House which is known for its consensus and its carve-out politics, and I am delighted to see this difference of opinion made so clear, because this report is a radical one. This report is a wake-up call to Europe. This report recommends radical measures, which in essence will make it easier to employ people. It is as simple as that. The reason why we have such crippling unemployment rates in Europe is that it is too difficult in many cases to employ people because of the red tape and the regulation and the inflexibility of the labour markets. This is the only way to go forward, because the real way to deliver social justice in Europe – and after all that is what we are all here to do – is to deliver prosperity and opportunities and jobs. This report signals very clearly the most effective way to do that, because Europe has to wake up. It cannot create jobs just by government spending. It cannot create jobs by legislating to cut working hours, as if jobs were a cake that you carve up and divide between people. The real world simply does not work like that. And if Europe wants to be left behind, left behind to stagnation and to unemployment and to statism and to corporatism, than yes, vote against this report tomorrow. But if you want Europe to go forward and to start delivering to the people of Europe, then I would call upon you all to give your support to this report, because it will deliver those jobs, and it will deliver those opportunities, and it is the only way to do so. – Mr President, like Mr Bolkestein I would like to thank Mr Andria for his hard work on this most important of subjects. I agree with the Commissioner and the rapporteur that it is very important to remove technical and other barriers to cross-border clearing and settlement in Europe. The Commission and the European Union can play a constructive role in facilitating cross-border clearing and settlement as a vital part of creating a single market in financial services. There are certain points upon which PPE-DE Group opinion is divided, in particular point 11. It is not necessary to separate so-called core and value-added services, contrary to the view of the rapporteur. It is vital to price these different services transparently, so that when people are purchasing they know exactly which service they are buying and which they are not. It is also necessary to ensure that suitable risk management schemes are in place so that if there is a problem with one service there is no contagion between the so-called core services and value-added services. A law which said that a financial institution could only create or provide a certain core service and was not allowed to diversify into others would be too big an intervention in the market. I myself and many in the group therefore support a small amendment to Mr Andria's report on that point. I have reservations about the proposal that we should move to a directive at this point. We might well need to look at a directive in the future but it may be premature to decide now whether a directive is necessary. There may be many other ways in which the European Union and the European Commission can facilitate cross-border clearing and settlement, without necessarily having to resort to a hard law solution. Finally, the only other point of substance where I have a slightly different view from Mr Andria is the suggestion that we should prescribe that clearing and settlement systems are based on a 'not for profit' principle. I appreciate that Mr Andria has moved on this and has compromised and added the facility for allowing the services to make proper investments, but we should not prescribe a non-profit status and compel the markets to adopt this model. There are great merits in opting for user-owned systems. These are very good ways to ensure that the clearing and settlement service provides an excellent service to its users, but I am not really sure that we should prescribe on that issue. We certainly should not write in at this stage the requirement that these services must be managed on a 'not for profit' basis. It is important to allow firms to innovate and to invest, and a certain amount of profit generation is necessary to allow that investment. I welcome much of Mr Andria's report, with those three minor reservations. In particular we should not prejudge the market at this stage. We should allow and encourage the market to produce its own solutions, to produce market-led solutions, although I can see that there are merits in encouraging user-owned systems, because looking around the European Union we can see a number of systems which are working well on a user-owned basis. Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work she has done on this report. It is a very good one and, like the rest of my Group, I will be supporting it tomorrow. I should particularly like to thank Mrs Randzio-Plath for including a number of amendments which meet the concerns of the charity sector in the European Union and in the United Kingdom as well. Charities face a lot of difficulties caused by the VAT system and the amendments relating to charities in the report, and indeed tabled by the PPE-DE Group, are essential in trying to mitigate those problems. There are other problems in relation to irrecoverable VAT which, sadly, we cannot solve with this report but are also very important. These issues are important to charities across the United Kingdom including places like Chipping Barnet, in my own constituency. It is also vital that Parliament adopts the amendment to ensure that Member States can allow a reduced rate for repairs to listed buildings. That is crucial, particularly for churches in the United Kingdom, many of which are listed. In many cases, repairs to these churches are phenomenally expensive for parishioners. These churches are not just of religious significance: they also have a social and cultural purpose within the community. The burden of paying a full rate of VAT makes keeping them in repair that much more difficult, so I very much hope that Parliament and Council support reduced rates of VAT for those kinds of repairs to historical listed buildings. It is also vital to preserve the existing zero rates in Member States. There is no reason why they should not be able to decide for themselves whether to levy the zero rates. I would strongly defend the United Kingdom's zero rates, particularly in relation to children's clothes and shoes. I see no reason why these should be abolished. They perform an important social function and my British Conservative colleagues and I steadfastly defend those zero rates and will continue to defend them. Madam President, I would like first to speak on the transparency directive on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, which supports this package from the presidency. We believe that quarterly reporting is dead. The changes we have seen on quarterly reporting have been very welcome. I am not sure that we need the publication of the statement contained in the compromise, but I do not see that as a particular problem, so it is an acceptable part of the compromise package. Mandatory quarterly reporting would have been extremely damaging and costly and would not have yielded real benefits in terms of transparency for investors. The transparency package also has vital clarifications on custodians and asset managers and sensible provisions on dissemination of information: ensuring fast dissemination across Europe, but allowing Member States the option if they want to require publication in a newspaper. I am particularly pleased with the result on bonds in relation to third country issuers. Many of their problems have been solved and I am pleased that elements of my amendment that looked at annual reporting and the issue of equivalence for third country issuers have been taken on board in the presidency package. On the ISD, I would like to thank a number of people: Mrs Cazalet from the Secretariat, my assistant Sarah McCarthy, the PSE Shadow George Katiforis, who has given me a tremendous amount of help, and Mr Karas, the coordinator of the PPE-DE Group, who has operated in a very fair manner on this very difficult dossier. I will be voting for the presidency package. I would urge other Members to do the same. I am concerned about it, however: there are many aspects of it which I think are unsatisfactory, but there is no doubt that it is much better than the common position, which is why I propose to support it. There are positive points in the package as will be agreed tomorrow. Execution-only services and direct-offer products will be permitted to continue under this directive. The framework for those products is more complex than I would like, but execution-only business can continue. I would welcome it if the Commissioner would confirm very clearly today that the new Investment Services Directive – ISD-2 – will not prevent people from using the execution-only services and direct offer products that they find so valuable. It is regrettable that the Council has rejected PPE-DE amendments on country of origin. But, having said that, removing most of the powers of host countries is very welcome and will contribute to cross-border trade. We are left with an unnecessarily complex framework for branches, but we are moving a step closer towards proper home country control and country of origin. I also welcome the inclusion of investment advice in ISD-2. It will plug the gaps that exist in some countries where advice is not properly regulated. This has an impact across Europe, because these services from poorly regulated countries could be sold right across Europe under the e-Commerce Directive. It is vital that we plug those gaps and give investors a proper conduct of business rule and advice protection. I also think investors will find welcome protection with the best-execution rule. I am pleased that many of the elements of the European Parliament's first reading amendments are included in the best execution provisions, and particularly a proportionate and pragmatic approach on best execution which recognises that while it is an objective standard, it is not an absolute standard. I also welcome an extensive framework of post-trade transparency, which will enable the markets to work better and provide welcome investor protection. On customer classification, I hope that ISD-2 is an improvement on ISD-1, where there was insufficient distinction between retail and wholesale investors. It is vital that we have a proper distinction, because each needs a completely different regulatory framework. Welcome technical clarifications on commodity derivatives have also been included, which will give the ISD framework the ability to adapt to innovation in the future in the commodities and derivatives markets, ensuring that new derivatives can be included in the framework in the future and thus providing more investor protection and greater legal certainty. On Article 27 and the concentration rule, after what was frankly a disastrous result in Ecofin, this has been something of a damage limitation exercise for Parliament. Speaking from a United Kingdom perspective, I think it is regrettable that Mr Boateng, the Minister representing the United Kingdom in that instance, was not able to get a better result. In our second reading in the European Parliament, we have succeeded in repairing some of that damage, but it was always going to be difficult to recover from what was an extremely difficult vote in Ecofin last year. While we have taken some steps forward, we have also taken some steps back. To that extent, ISD-2 is a missed opportunity. I fully supported the Commission's proposal to abolish concentration rules, but to a significant degree that attempt has been undermined by what has now been agreed on Article 27. It is a great relief that the threat of companies being required to quote for millions of euros' worth of shares has been averted. The move to standard market size from block size is very welcome and there are other important clarifications, for example, allowing firms better protection against multiple hits. But I still do not believe that we have got the best balance in terms of liquidity and competition. My aspiration was to produce a text which had effective transparency requirements and ensured good price formation without imposing regulatory burdens which were so heavy as to produce a concentration rule by the back door, and to damage liquidity provision. I will support the presidency package but I do not think it has got the balance right. The text still covers too many firms and too much business within the definition of systematic internaliser, possibly jeopardising a range of over-the-counter and traditional wholesale trading. It still leaves firms with significant regulatory burdens if they wish to compete with exchanges, and it is ironic that this piece of legislation is actively forcing firms to take on trading risk which the Basel II framework is telling them to limit. Article 27 will in many ways make it more difficult for firms to compete with exchanges, which means that sadly investors will not get all the benefits of a wide range of choice of services and reduced transaction costs that would come with a fully competitive market. I am sorry that we had such resistance to more competition from certain members of the Council. It is vital that this directive is implemented in a sensible way, both by the Commission, by CESR – 'Caesar' – and by the regulatory authorities in each country. If it is regulated in a sensible way, it will yield dividends in terms of increased competition. I would appeal to the Commission to ensure that it is implemented sensibly because that is the only way we will achieve real gains in terms of competition and liquidity for investors across Europe. – Mr President, when the UK Prime Minister went to Lisbon he quite arrogantly lectured other European leaders about how they should be running their economies. Not content with trying to control us at home, he is trying to do that in Europe as well. He came back to the UK saying that Europe is going our way and that he had changed the agenda. However, as far as I can see, the only way in which Europe is following Mr Blair's agenda is by piling yet more red tape on business and more regulation, and making Europe an ever more expensive place in which to do business. Mr Blair's government introduced about 3500 regulations last year alone – a record increase. The lessons of Lisbon have not been learned in London or Brussels, because we still see every day in this House more regulation and more red tape being produced. I challenge both Commissioner Prodi and Mrs Lindh to come up with one example of where a burden on business has been removed or repealed since Lisbon, one example of an EU measure which makes it easier and not more difficult and more expensive to employ people and one example of a proposal for a regulation which has been dropped as being too expensive or disproportionate to the aims sought. I hope that I will be proved wrong in my assessment of the success rate from Lisbon being very low indeed. We still have directives on how to climb ladders. We still have directives on lawnmowers, fluorescent ballast and one on electrical waste which is quite simply going to be a tax on computers. How is that going to promote the e-economy in Europe? Regulation may feel like cost-free political points to politicians, but someone has to pay the bill. The people who pay the bills are the customers of these companies, who pay them in higher prices and, above all, the people of Europe, who are priced out of jobs. I call on the Commission and the Council to live up to the fine words of Lisbon with action: remove red tape and, above all, make it easier, not more difficult or expensive to employ people in Europe. – Mr President, I am delighted to see that both the Legal Affairs Committee and the rapporteur accepted that it was unwise to reopen a large number of issues in this area and that much of what was achieved in the common position reflects a balance on this very complicated problem. I hope that the House will also limit the number of amendments that are adopted and not interfere too greatly with the common position. It is a directive which I and the British Conservatives welcome because it is vital that European citizens are given proper protection of their creative rights and creative works in the digital era and this directive will deliver that to them. This is essential because, not only is there an enormous music industry and film industry, we must not forget the highly successful computer games industry which is generating a huge amount of revenue in the United Kingdom and in a number of other countries across the EU. But the British Conservatives also firmly uphold the rights of those who take advantage of the public interest exceptions. Groups such as the disabled, including blind people who need access to Braille copies in order to access the Internet, groups such as researchers, universities and libraries: these kinds of rightholder exceptions are vital for promoting research which is so important for our economic health. A less high profile exception that is important economically is the right of reverse engineering of computer software. We would entirely reject those amendments which are seeking to inhibit the use of those public interest exceptions. We therefore accept the need to tighten up the wording of Article 6(4), to clarify its role and to restrict it to truly on-demand interactive services. Having said that, there is another exception which is more controversial, which is ordinary private copying. We are all pleased to see the rules have been tightened up to prevent it being abused and used as a loophole for piracy; that is something that we would also support. I would lastly express some reservations about Amendment No 11. If this amendment is passed, I fear that the broadcasters will have an advantage. They are getting something for nothing. I think this skews the common position a little and, unless someone can convince me otherwise, I would have grave reservations about Amendment No 11. We have a sensible and balanced position and I fear Amendment No 11 may tilt that balance in the wrong direction. Mr President, I wish to give an explanation of vote to explain my extreme concern over the Eurostat scandal and the European Commission's failure to take responsibility. Five years ago, almost to the day, the Santer Commission was forced to resign because it was 'difficult to find anyone with the slightest sense of responsibility'. That caused the collapse of the previous Commission. Nothing has changed, because no one has been prepared to take responsibility for Eurostat. Despite the fact that EUR 5 million has gone missing; despite the fact that money has been channelled into bogus research by bogus companies, some of which it appears are owned by senior members of Eurostat; despite the fact that taxpayers' money appears to have been channelled into staff perks – such as a riding school and a volleyball team – we have seen no resignations from the Commission over this issue and no acceptance of responsibility. Mr Solbes Mira's response seems to be just that he did not know what was happening. This seems to be a charter for Commissioners just to tell their civil servants not to inform them of the dubious activities going on in their departments, so that, on the basis of the Commission's analysis, the Commissioner will get off scot-free. We know that Mr Solbes Mira has resigned from the Commission but not over this issue, so there is still a complete failure on the part of the European Commission to take responsibility for this waste of taxpayers' money. That is a matter of extreme concern to me and my British Conservative colleagues. I hope that before our vote on the motion of censure in May the Commission will accept its responsibility and do something serious to take responsibility for Eurostat and to clean up the EU and stop the unacceptable waste and abuse of taxpayers' money. – The British Conservatives, like other centre-right parties across the European Union, are committed to properly-funded and high-quality public services and, if elected in June, to a massive increase in public spending of around GBP 62 billion on essential services like schools and hospitals. We therefore welcome paragraph 6 but we have reservations about the rest of the report, in particular paragraph 4, because we cannot agree that the 'golden rule' is a good example for Europe to follow. It is merely one of the many ways in which Gordon Brown succeeds in fiddling the figures. This report and the Stability and Growth Pact in the convergent programmes are clear evidence of the link between tax-and-spend policies and monetary policy. The pact applies to all EU Member States but the legal penalties are only applicable to those states in the euro zone: that is at the heart of our reservations about this report. One of the reasons why we oppose the United Kingdom joining the euro zone is because we wish to keep the power to set taxes, budgets and spending decisions in the hands of democratically-elected national politicians. Within the euro zone it is not surprising that constraints have been imposed on public spending decisions because if you have, to all intents and purposes, a joint bank account you are affected by the spending decisions of others and you can expect to want some control over those spending decisions. The recent example of Ireland is a salutary reminder that by joining the euro a country takes on more than a single interest rate: its tax-and-spend decisions will no longer be decided solely in national capitals. It is a prospect which most people in the United Kingdom view with disquiet, the prospect of following a budget by the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Ecofin, the Commission or the ECB informing that Chancellor that he or she is not permitted to increase spending on schools and hospitals and those services which are of such huge value to the people of the United Kingdom. This has already happened in Ireland and it could happen in the United Kingdom. But I would urge that the real route to economic prosperity in Europe is, as Mr Karas eloquently stated, structural and economic reform which will lead to sustainable prosperity, an increase in employment and a reduction in unemployment. – About 18 months ago the Council of the European Union nodded through a draft of the new Brussels regulation which essentially rubber-stamped old principles supposedly in order to apply them to modern conditions, but without thought, without real discussion and without consultation, I hope, whatever the result of the vote tomorrow, that both the Commission and Council will take note of the very extensive discussions and debate which we have had in this Parliament, which have taken account of the concerns both of business and consumers. I disagree with Mrs Wallis’ suggestion that, because of some criticism from David Byrne of the result reached in the Legal Affairs Committee, we should give way now. I would say it is our democratic duty to stand up for what we believe is the right solution for consumers and for e-commerce in the European Union regardless of whether that gives distress to Mr Byrne or not. I would give my wholehearted support to the conclusion reached in the Legal Affairs Committee. It is a common-sense balance between, on the one hand, protecting consumers and, on the other hand, ensuring that those same consumers have access to the low prices and wide choices that are available with the truly competitive market. We have to decide, in a new era where physical location has become almost meaningless, where a dispute is eventually litigated, where a dispute is eventually solved. To allow consumers and businesses the freedom to make that choice themselves is the most pragmatic and the most common-sense solution and this gives the maximum certainty both to business and to consumers. It does not strip consumers of their pre-existing rights. It gives them choices and it reflects their enhanced status in a new Internet world, which gives them more power and more choices than ever before. If small businesses are driven out of the market because of the proposals from the Commission or if we adopt Mrs Wallis’ amendments tomorrow then it will be consumers who suffer because it will leave them at the mercy of the large global players and it will deprive them of the low prices that they deserve under the new Internet economy. Even more importantly, it will also threaten the new economy and the e-economy in the European Union. We are sadly far behind the United States and, if tomorrow we support the amendments proposed by Mrs Wallis, we will stay far behind the United States. With the Commission’s proposals, we certainly have the worst of both worlds. We have uncertainty and legal risk for business without genuine consumer protection, because in many cases the right to sue in your own home court may be illusory if you cannot enforce the judgment without going overseas and incurring the same inconvenience as if you had to go overseas in any event to litigate this issue. The Legal Affairs Committee has come up with a pragmatic solution. It is a common sense balance to a difficult issue and I would appeal to the House to support the resolution as put forward by the Legal Affairs Committee. – Mr President, the main points of controversy in this report concern three different types of contractual agreement, namely repo agreements, netting agreements, and contracts conducted on a regulated market. As Mrs Peijs' report outlined, these types of contracts were discussed in committee pending this debate and, in essence, what we are seeking to do with the compromises proposed by Mrs Peijs is to ensure that parties can choose their own contract law in relation to these particular contracts, but not their own winding-up proceedings law. There is a separation here between the law of the contract and the external insolvency law, because it is quite important to ensure that parties, though they may choose the law of contract, may not actually choose their own insolvency law. Now a problem arises concerning the interaction between the law of contract and insolvency law. What we are trying to do is to ensure that the contract operates and whatever proceeds are left at the other end are then dealt with according to the insolvency law of the home State. There is still one slight uncertainty in the text about what happens with regimes, for example, in Spain which have insolvency proceedings which kick in before the contract law actually takes place. In essence, these are known as automatic stays and mean that in certain countries, such as Spain, I believe all contracts are suspended automatically by an insolvency proceeding. I applaud Mrs Peijs' work in reconciling what looked fairly irreconcilable and coming up with a solution that favours home State control which is preferable in terms of the internal market, but I have some anxiety that there will still have to be some fine-tuning. I hope that we will not have to have a third reading, but we may have to just to make it absolutely clear that these automatic stays would not affect netting contracts, repo contracts and contracts in a regulated market. I would appeal to the House that in some ways it is more important to get a clear answer than to get one that suits everyone; one that is absolutely perfect in every respect. Because with a clear answer people can arrange their transactions around the framework that we have set up. It is vital to do that. I applaud the work that Mrs Peijs has done and I hope that we have finally sorted this issue out. I just have certain worries about the automatic stays and suspect that we might need some fine-tuning at a later stage. The other controversial issue involves right in rem and the difference between the common position and the tidying up operation that Mrs Peijs has done, and this is something we have discussed at length. In essence, there is a lot of common ground between what the Council proposes in the common position and the alternative wording that Mrs Peijs has proposed. I am inclined to think, in view of the uncertainty, that it may well be worth sticking to the common position on that particular issue, because of the potential threat that it might pose to the mortgage bond market. This is not a strategic interest to me as a British MEP, because it does not affect the British market in any way – it is much more important for the Danish, the Austrian and the German mortgage market. I would congratulate Mrs Peijs on her work. It is a very good report. There are still one or two small points of controversy in it, but she has done an excellent job. I apologise for the confusion we have had in committee over the voting and I am glad that it has all been resolved now. – Mr President, I very much welcome the Lamfalussy report and the opportunity to comment on it, but I would like to start by putting on record my personal thanks to Mr Bolkestein for coming along at this late hour despite the interruption. I know it is appreciated by all my colleagues. We are all aware of the benefits of the single market in financial services but I will re-state them because they are so important: cheaper products for consumers, better returns for savers and easier and cheaper finance for business. Sadly, this remains an aspiration rather than a reality. One of the main reasons we are failing to achieve such a single market is poor implementation and inconsistent interpretation. Both of these will be helped by Mr Lamfalussy's proposals, which are sensible and pragmatic. We need further assurances and guarantees on transparency and market consultation and on democratic oversight, but I hope we and the other two European Union institutions can find a way to make these proposals work. This is an important political opportunity which should not be wasted and I am glad to hear that the Commission is taking a pragmatic view on its right of initiative. As Mr Bolkestein stated in his introduction, he does not have concerns about the role of the regulators’ committee. We need to see that kind of flexibility from the Council as well and if it is true that the Council is trying to roll back the European Parliament's limited role in the comitology process under present rules, that is unhelpful and regrettable. All three institutions will need to show goodwill and make sacrifices and compromises if this arrangement is to work, but it is a prize well worth fighting for because the single market in securities will yield many benefits for the people we are elected to represent. Mr President, I appeal to the House and to the President to take every action possible in order to try to bring to an end the human rights abuses in Iran. The Iranian regime has been perpetrating severe human rights abuses for far too long. I appeal to the President to express the protest of this House to the Iranian regime and call upon it to bring to an end these human rights abuses as soon as possible. There was a major gathering of Europe's Iranian community in Brussels on 21 March, and there were heartfelt calls from Iranian exiles for a change to the approach of the regime in Iran. Every MEP in this House should back Europe's Iranian community in demanding human rights and in demanding justice for Iranians. Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Wuermeling, for having done a fantastic job in turning a disastrous Commission proposal into something that still has some problems but is considerably improved. It is vital to remember that we must not produce a proposal that undermines access to credit. The Commission's proposal would have denied the less advantaged and lower- income groups from access to credit. It would have meant a huge amount of inconvenience for consumers. For example, many consumers in Europe have credit cards, and some have two, three or four. Under the Commission proposal they would have to resign their contracts for each of these credit cards. They would have faced a lot of red tape when their credit limit changed. They would have faced even more red tape if they wanted to be overdrawn for a day or so. If they wanted to buy a fridge or a TV on credit, they would have had to leave it in the shop for two weeks before they could take it home. There were bizarre proposals from the Commission on the destruction of data that would have inhibited the law enforcement authorities in the fight against fraud and financial crime. Many of these problems have been solved by our amendments, and I would appeal to the Council to accept those amendments adopted today. There are still some problems with overdrafts and credit intermediaries, but Parliament can claim credit for achieving significant improvements to this proposal which I hope will be accepted in the final directive when it is agreed in the next Parliament. Mr President, I shall be abstaining from voting on Mr Trichet's appointment partly because, as the UK is not a member of the eurozone, I tend to act cautiously in speaking on these internal matters of organisation in relation to the euro, and partly because I have mixed feelings about Mr Trichet's appointment. He is clearly an exceptionally talented, able and intelligent central banker. However, at the end of our discussions in committee, I felt that despite these qualities he really did not have anything new to say about the euro. He did not have any answers to some of the real economic problems that we are seeing in the eurozone. There are increasing levels of unemployment in Germany and France and their economies are in trouble to the extent that neither are able to meet the rules of the Stability Pact. It is clear that there are real economic problems in the eurozone and I have heard nothing from Mr Trichet that would indicate his ability to solve them. It came as no surprise to me that the Swedes have decided that they do not want to abolish their national currency. The continuing economic difficulties in the eurozone are one of the many reasons why the UK should not abolish its national currency either. For those reasons I shall be abstaining from voting on Mr Trichet's appointment. Mr President, I would like to add my congratulations to the rapporteur, who has worked very hard on this and produced an excellent report which has my firm support. I agree over the need to move to a risk-sensitive framework which rewards prudent lending and penalises imprudent lending. I also agree with the aspiration to implement the accord in as near parallel with the United States as possible, to prevent the banking sector in the European Union from suffering a competitive disadvantage. I am pleased that Mr Radwan's report recognises the importance of proper cost benefit analysis and of tailoring the framework to the needs of different sectors affected by the capital adequacy directive. That includes both small and large banks, investment firms and firms which have a mix of investment and credit business. In the future we may have to amend the directive to take into account the needs of commodities firms, if they are brought into the framework. I congratulate the Commission on its progress in dealing with the issue of small business lending. It is absolutely right that the framework should not penalise small business lending unnecessarily. Many small businesses have nothing to fear from a risk-sensitive framework because there are many small businesses which are very good risks and which therefore can expect to get cheaper finance as a result of Basel II. There are, however, some small start-up businesses which are high-risk and I agree with the Commissioner that they should continue to attract a high capital charge. On the whole, with regard to SMEs – particularly in the light of reforms to the definition of retail which embrace a lot of SME lending – we are working towards a framework which is a fair and balanced solution on the SME lending issue. I would like to see the framework take a light touch on operational risk. Operational risk is something that is not yet easily calibrated and we should be very cautious before we impose a large charge. We should be flexible in reflecting developments on how that charge is measured. It is also vital for the framework to recognise the important risk mitigation role played by collateral, both financial and physical. That is another very important part of the Radwan report which we, as MEPs, should recognise. We should also recognise the importance of insurance and indemnity insurance as a way of mitigating risk. This is particularly important in relation to investment firms. Finally, the framework should try to go with the grain of professional practice. It should encourage good practice and work with the best of industry practice, rather than perhaps impose a wholly different framework on top of good industry practice.