EN
.  Mr President, it is unacceptable that the Commission has two opportunities to speak and the rapporteur only one. However, it must be said that despite all the rigmarole of what the Commission would or would not agree to, the fact emerges that the Commission is not prepared to budge at all on the question of batch control. I take it that is the Commission's position. As far as the fundamentals of this report are concerned, the Commission has not moved an inch. That is what we will have to consider when we vote tomorrow. – Mr President, I have an interest to declare: I chair the Energy Efficiency Advice Centre which operates in the northern half of the region that I represent. I hasten to add that it is a technical interest and not a financial one. Improving the energy performance of buildings, however it is defined, is the most difficult issue that I have ever had to grapple with. Therefore my sympathy, to some extent, is with the rapporteur in being presented with an issue of this complexity. In the UK we have too many organisations trying to improve matters. At the European level we have a certain confusion of objectives. Are we trying to save energy? Are we trying to reduce CO2 emissions, or are we trying to reduce energy consumption? These are not all the same things. It is energy consumption that we should be focusing on. In my experience it is the existing buildings that are the key to our success. If you look at the housing sector, the most difficult area is rented accommodation rather than the owner-occupied sector. We are a long way from solving that one. In general I support the Commission's proposals and the report, but I have some hesitation about Amendment No 15. We should be focusing more on the common methodology rather than worrying too much at this stage about minimum standards applying right across the whole of the Community. We are really a long way from being able to achieve that. I also have some reservations about including a CO2 emission indicator. If you take a house, it depends on how much gas is being used or how much electricity. Therefore you cannot compare them very easily. But it is a step in the right direction. – Mr President, I represent the region in the north-east of England which was the scene of the original outbreak and has just recently been affected by further outbreaks. I regret very much that we have been unable to agree a compromise text on this occasion. The reason is simple. Recital A accuses the UK government of failure to control the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease. In truth, it is not an attack on the UK government but on all those who have battled very heroically against the disease since the end of February – the farmers themselves, the vets, the scientists, the civil servants, the police, the military, many different rural agencies which have all been involved. In particular, the farmers in the Allendale Valley, the scene of the recent hotspot, believed that they had taken all the necessary measures to avoid the disease. Failure to control implies that the outbreak should have already ended. But the mover of the resolution did not explain when and by what means that might have been achieved. No-one ever promised, or even surmised, that the outbreak would be over at this stage. At its peak there were 40 to 50 cases a day. Despite the recent outbreak in Allendale, the average is now two or three cases per day. If this does not indicate a degree of control then we really have a very serious problem in front of us, something that none of us ever imagined. It is important also to recall that from the very start the UK government has given full information to the other Member States and has followed the advice of the Standing Veterinary Committee. In that respect, we can point to a considerable success for the mechanisms that we have operating within the European Union. A word on vaccination. I would suggest to Mr van Dam, the original speaker on this resolution, that perhaps he ought to apply for the job of chief scientist in the United Kingdom. He certainly seems to bring to the debate on vaccination an authority and conviction which far exceeds that of the current holder of the office, Professor David King, who only this morning in a radio broadcast said we could not be certain that vaccination would have done any good. In the Netherlands the animals were also slaughtered and there is quite a problem here in the suggestion that vaccination actually saves the animal's life. That does not necessarily follow – but I do not know when the job becomes vacant! – Mr President, the British Labour Members did not support this report. We do not support the extension of the marketing scheme for nuts. We recognise, however, that production is commonly found in less-favoured areas, principally in Spain, and that much of the production is barely competitive and brings little economic return. For these reasons it would make more economic sense to support the affected regions by a comprehensive programme for alternative crops or other activities that could be financed through the Rural Development Programme. Our vote accordingly urges the Commission to bring forward proposals to this effect. We realise that these views are not universally popular but believe that they should ultimately result in a higher standard of living for the people affected. This is preferable to continued subsistence living and uncertain financial provision from CAP funds. . – Mr President, the present organisation is manifestly unsatisfactory to all the parties involved, particularly the sheep and goat farmers, but also to Member States and the Commission. It has allowed the income of sheep farmers to fall behind the general levels of income of other sections of the farming community. This widening gap is a serious matter when considering that large areas of the Community are highly dependent on sheep and goat farming. The method of calculation of the premium is complicated and statistically suspect. The figures on which the eventual sheep premium is agreed cannot be justified in a satisfactory manner because it requires detailed information of what is happening in the market and that cannot readily be obtained nor easily substantiated. Another drawback is that the premium is based on deficiency payments. This is not acceptable to the WTO and is therefore a barrier to negotiations in agricultural issues generally. For farmers there is uncertainty over a 12-month period as to what annual premium will be paid eventually. Because of this uncertainty the premium does not allow effective management planning. All these drawbacks were recognised by the Commission and are largely reinforced by a study that was carried out prior to the preparation of the proposals which we are now debating. The Commission proposal, in essence, is simpler, less bureaucratic and will be easier to understand. The fundamental difference is that it is based on a fixed annual payment. This is less objectionable to the WTO and therefore will help with the overall agricultural negotiations in which the Commission is involved. More importantly, from the farmers' viewpoint, the premium will be known in advance and this will make farm business decisions easier. My discussions in contact with the sheep and goat farmers of the Community confirm that the proposals are broadly acceptable to them. The information that I have from Member States is that it is broadly acceptable to them as well. There is agreement that it is desirable to agree the revision in time for 1 January 2002 so that the benefit to the farming community can come in as quickly as possible. The principle of the Commission's proposals is broadly acceptable to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, though there are differences in emphasis. The committee proposes a premium 50% higher than that put forward by the Commission. The lower premium for milking-sheep and goats is rejected and a higher supplement proposed for sheep and goats in less favoured areas. There are strong pressures within the committee that the market organisation should make greater provision for national differences. A number of proposals have been put forward. They cover such matters as extensification, de-stocking and the buy-out of premium rights. There are also proposals which would allow Member States to make additional headage and area payments. These would be based on objective criteria which could cover, , environmental considerations, tagging and traceability. Sheep farming has not made the productivity advances seen in other agricultural sectors. Amendments have been introduced calling for Commission support for increased marketing promotion. Targeting young people to encourage consumption will be important for success. The committee recognises that this is an interim stage and looks forward to reports from the Commission on environmental impact, traceability and pasturing techniques. It is anticipated that this will lead to wider reforms in the Agenda 2000 mid-term review. The Agriculture Committee looks to the Commission for a positive response to the amendments it has proposed. .–Overall, the amendments adopted by the ITRE Committee on 23rd April do not improve on the Commission's text. The amendments have produced an extremely complicated proposal which would be even more harmful to the generally large industrial CHP plants which are the main UK interest, than the Commission's original proposal. These amendments taken as a whole are based on the assumption that all cogeneration ‘with an efficiency level of at least 80% always leads to substantial energy savings in comparison to the separate generation of energy and heat and may therefore be regarded as efficient.’ It is not true that an efficiency of 80% will guarantee substantial energy savings is disputable. Schemes with the same overall efficiency do not necessarily save the most fuel and displace the most CO2 emissions. It is important to value electrical efficiency more than heat efficiency and the report as tabled does not do this. Overall, the approach is too academic and takes little account of the practical difficulties of implementing the approach at industrial sites – some of which can be extremely complex. Adoption of the proposal would seriously damage the prospects for cogeneration in the UK. Madam President, after almost 25 years in this Parliament I am standing down at the elections. This may well be my last speech in the Chamber. As a former mining engineer, energy policy has been one of my prime interests, so I am happy to be making my swan-song on an energy subject. I hope that Parliament will strongly support this proposal because it will play an important role in the completion of the internal energy market. Its purpose is to ensure fair access to networks for all market players and a genuinely competitive market for traded gas in the EU. The third-party access guidelines in the Annex have been agreed by Member States, regulators, TSOs and system users. It is therefore appropriate that the text of the regulation agreed in committee should be as close as possible to the guidelines agreed at the Madrid Forum. Consultation with all actors in the industry is vital if the regulation is to be effective. That is why they must all be consulted on the establishment of further guidelines. National regulators will have a vital role to play in enforcing the guidelines at Member State level, as envisaged by the Gas Directive. This proposed gas regulation deals with similar issues to the electricity regulation agreed by the Council and Parliament last year. It is appropriate that the same institutional arrangements and procedures should apply. I very much urge the House to approve this measure. – Mr President, bad farming practice was the root cause of the foot and mouth outbreak. Pigs were fed improperly treated swill, which was bad farming practice. Diseased pigs were not reported – bad farming practice. Neighbouring sheep became infected. Bad farming practice was compounded by stupidity when pigs which no longer showed physical symptoms but could still transmit the disease were sent to an abattoir. Other animals became infected and this delayed the identification of the source of the outbreak. The outbreak farm was so severely infected that it was six months before it was safe to disinfect it. Bad farming practice led to a situation where the disease was spreadeagled over 57 farms in 16 counties by the time its presence was confirmed. The result was the worst foot and mouth outbreak ever recorded, well beyond the contingency planning of any Member State. The report does not shirk the horrendous consequences to farmers and to rural businesses, the heartache, the trauma and the financial losses. Nor does the report shirk the operational problems faced by government. No one pretends that there were not mistakes of policy and failures in implementation, but the lessons-to-be-learned inquiry clearly shows that decisions made were justified by the available evidence at the time. The report is particularly good – indeed it is its main strength – on the measures needed to combat any future outbreak. Of special importance is the need for effective monitoring of animal movements and traceability. That said, regrettably the report contains errors of fact. These relate to the legality and effectiveness of the contiguous cull. They also relate to allegations of animal welfare abuses and to biosecurity lapses allowing further spread of the disease. Eight amendments have been tabled to correct these errors. As the Chair said so revealingly during the committee vote, we are not dealing with reality. Hearsay and hindsight have been the chief witnesses. The reality is that the contiguous cull was legal. It was legal under UK law; it was legal under European law. The cull was an essential weapon in bringing the disease under control. Vaccination would not have worked in the UK situation. The reality is that the heroic efforts of government officials, veterinarians, farmers, police, the military and many others brought the disease under control more quickly than the smaller outbreak in the UK which occurred in 1966-68. That was the reality. – Mr President, this report should be welcomed for its well-rounded approach. It highlights in a factual and non-alarmist manner the enormous potential of the European biotechnology industry for assisting economic growth, for encouraging job creation and improving the competitiveness of our industries. But it is not all about growth. As we live longer we also need to ensure that we live better and the infirmities of older people have to be addressed. Diseases like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, diabetes, heart disease and even cancer have yet to be fully challenged by the biotechnologists. It is not only a question of living better, we have to be fitter so that older people can continue by their work to contribute to the wealth of society. Long life and a healthy life have to be earned. I am convinced that in plant, animal and human biology lie the biggest challenges of the 21st century. I very strongly support that section of the report which calls for more concrete proposals for action from the Commission and Council. We need the Commission to report on the present state of the industry and the comparisons between Member States and to give us better data for future action. The development of a plan for a bio-Europe – paralleling the e-Europe – for activities of the Commission and Member States to make the Union a competitor for the biotechnology industry is a worthy aim. The Council should also commit to biotechnology as a key new technology and the Stockholm Summit would be a useful time for them to do this. The region that I represent has the lowest GDP per head of any region in the United Kingdom. It is not a comfortable position and one of the key developments in the regional economic planning is to support a company to stimulate growth in biotechnology industries. We call it Bio-Science-North. The aim is to draw on research in university departments, to establish incubator companies and stimulate growth in those that are already established. We believe that this is one of the most important instruments that we have been able to put in place in the last two or three years, with of course support from the European Regional Development Fund. I know that our region is not alone in that but I believe that this is something that all regions in the Community should be examining. The final point I would like to make is that we must reinforce the environmental possibilities of biotechnology. It should be recognised that it gives us tremendous opportunities for tackling pollution and reducing resource depletion and gives us opportunities in the food sector to improve the output from our agricultural industries. I hope that the biotechnology industry will get a tremendous boost from the adoption of this report. – Mr President, I would like to put forward an oral amendment to rectify an unfortunate typing error made initially. This will insert the word "not", so that the last phrase reads as follows: "independent from other activities not relating to the transmission system". I am sure the rapporteur understands this, but I do apologise to the House for the original typing error. Mr President, as long as people eat meat the treatment of farm animals will be the subject of lively debate. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development wisely chose Mr Maat to prepare this report, which largely succeeds in reconciling animal welfare with the economics of farming. The fact that over 450 amendments were tabled showed the extent of interest and the wide range of opinion as to detail. Mr Maat handled this with skill, but on such a high-profile issue the amendments tabled before Parliament calling for even tighter conditions were to be expected. The committee's report achieved a number of important objectives: a reduction in travelling times; upgraded transport conditions, including provisions for rest periods, feeding and watering; additional training for drivers and animal handlers; improved enforcement of the rules; stronger rules relating to journey planning and registration; satellite monitoring of vehicle movement; the ability of Member States to ban export of animals for slaughter is included; there is a preference for slaughter near to the farm and encouragement for mobile slaughterhouses. Looking ahead, we must ensure that the rules are properly implemented, that transport as meat increasingly becomes the norm, and that the rules are driven more by science than by emotion. I shall support the report and look forward to early adoption of the revised rules. The provision of a review clause would be helpful and I trust the Council will introduce this. – Mr President, the members of the Committee on Agriculture recognise the great importance that we attach to the control of substances which are used in farming to protect plants and encourage growth, particularly the effects that these have on our water supplies. We are, however, disappointed that the Committee on the Environment did not accept our amendments that substances in natural nutrients used in agriculture should not be classified either as priority or hazardous priority substances. The Committee on the Environment also did not accept our Amendment No 3 which was to review the procedure for priority hazardous substances. The plant protection products Directive 91/414 already has an established procedure to evaluate those substances and decide whether or not they should be used in the Community. I would submit that the decisions under that Directive ought to be completed under its agreed timetable before an informed decision can be taken under these new proposals. There is no valid reason, given that we are looking at a potential phase-out period of twenty years, for trying to shorten the timetable, and this was the substance of the Committee on Agriculture's proposal. We wanted to allow sufficient time to have a thorough investigation and make sure there was an avoidance of errors. The original Commission proposal was barely in line. Amendment No 20 by the committee and Amendment No 27 by Mrs Breyer run counter to proper investigation and should be opposed. Mrs Breyer ought to have mentioned when she was talking about Amendment No 27 that she was speaking about an amendment tabled by herself on behalf of her group and not on behalf of the Committee on the Environment. – I would like to thank the Commissioner for his measured statement this afternoon. Members may not know but the farm at Heddon-on-the-Wall in the north-east of England which appears to be the centre of this outbreak is in my constituency and therefore I know at first hand the great devastation it is causing to the farming community and the disruption that it is causing to the meat processing industry, to say nothing of the curtailment of access to countryside pursuits. I would like to express to the farming community in the United Kingdom our great sympathy and concern with this situation. I would also like to say to colleagues from the mainland continent of Europe that we sincerely hope that we have not exported the disease to mainland Europe. I very much welcome what the Commissioner had to say about the actions that had been taken by the British Government. We all understand that slaughter and stoppage of animal movement is one of the best means of bringing the outbreak under control. He also mentioned vaccination as a further possibility. Can he say anything about the time scale for vaccination? – Mr President, we must not be under any illusion that the falsification of quality control data at Sellafield was not a most serious matter. I suspect that the small number of Members of this House who have kept in touch with the plant, both the management and the workers' representatives there over a good number of years, felt the issue more keenly than most. It exposed a poor safety culture and an inadequate secondary control procedure in the manufacture of MOX fuel. However, we should note that the response of BNFL to the nuclear inspectorate report has already resulted in very significant management changes. These have been welcomed both by the inspectorate and by the minister responsible. I hope that in that regard they will not be accused of having gone native on this particular issue. I would suggest that one of the roles of Parliament should be to monitor the ongoing management changes that are taking place. We should also note that the chief inspector and the Commission made very clear to the industry committee that there were no safety implications at any of the Sellafield installations. Nuclear safeguards were not an issue, nor were there safety issues in relation to transport of nuclear materials. I am glad that the Commissioner has reinforced that view this evening. The fuel can be safely used for the purposes for which it was manufactured. But to say all this must not lead us to be complacent. We seek to apply standards to the applicant countries in eastern Europe and, I would suggest, beyond the applicant countries in eastern Europe. European Union standards applicable to all nuclear installations are still something that most of us want to see. We know that the Western European Nuclear Regulators Association is seeking harmonisation. I would hope that the Commissioner, as other colleagues have asked, will reconsider her position and actually support and encourage WENRA in this objective. I am absolutely convinced, on the basis of my own experience in a number of countries that this is the way to reassure public opinion. It is the reassurance of public opinion that must be our main objective as a Parliament. – Mr President, I am taking the place of Mrs McNally who has had to go back to the United Kingdom this afternoon. The European Union with the support of this Parliament has already done much to raise the technical and operational safety of Soviet-type nuclear reactors and to create independent regulators. As I understand it, what is being done at Temelín has already been done in Finland and there is similar upgrading work in hand at Kozloduy in Bulgaria with the support of a Euratom loan. What I would like the Commission to confirm, if possible, is if the work at Temelín follows the recommendations of twelve inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency and that it will, in fact, create safety standards equivalent to those in our Member States. That is the assurance, or reassurance, that the public in the European Union requires. We have had many messages from the Czech authorities this week. They claim that most of the actions which we request in this resolution have already been carried out and that the remainder are, in fact, under way. Is the Commission in a position to confirm that this afternoon, and if not, will it undertake to supply its views on this matter with urgency to the Industry Committee of the European Parliament? – Mr President, referring to the text adopted yesterday and the issue of human cloning, item 8 in the English version, paragraph 11, reads 'considers that any temporary committee set up by this Parliament ....'. It does not actually say that such a temporary committee should be set up. Could we have some guidance as to what the presidency will do about this particular section of the resolution? The British Labour members have a strong commitment to the producers in the Caribbean and wish to see an early settlement of the dispute within the WTO. These are delicate negotiations and at this stage the UK does not rule out an eventual tariff only system. This is the context in which we have supported the Dary report while being against Amendments Nos 6 and 7. – Mr President, the British Labour Members voted against the Cunha report. Our objective is a fundamental reform involving withdrawal of financial support for tobacco production. The proposal to extend the present financial provision is unacceptable. So too was the amendment in the report which would reduce the Commission proposals for higher premia for the Community Tobacco Fund. However, the economic and social importance of tobacco in certain regions must be taken into account. The Commission must bring forward measures to develop alternative sources of income with a greater degree of urgency than it is currently showing. Recognising this as the priority we voted for Amendment No 21. – Madam President, on the Nicholson report, I voted against it because paragraph 20 seeks to delay the completion of the second nuclear reactor at Cernavoda. It is a “CANDU” nuclear reactor of western design. There are no safety implications involved. Paragraph 20 of the report calls for the creation of a sustainable energy strategy. That strategy has already been put in place. It has been paid for through the PHARE programme. I am surprised that a committee like the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy seems to be unaware of this fact. For that reason I voted against the Nicholson report. That particular item was inaccurate, unnecessary and an aggravation to a country which is seeking to join us. I wish that the anti-nuclear people on these committees would realise that this constant sniping at the applicant countries on this issue is not doing our relations with them any good at all. – Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his very detailed statement which, without wishing in any way to put aside the devastation of the impact of this outbreak, will have counteracted some of the hysteria that we have encountered. There was complete agreement that slaughter and containment was the most effective policy when this disease broke out. But for the rapid action of the United Kingdom Government to ban exports and impose movement restrictions and alert other Member States, the impact on the Continent and in Britain would have been far greater. Sound-bite television has not been helpful to public understanding of this complicated disease – as you may have experienced a few moments ago, Commissioner. Vaccination is not as simple as some suggest. I congratulate the Commissioner for making that clear and destroying some of the myths that have been bandied about. The Standing Committee has only agreed to vaccination with the proviso that quarantine, slaughter and disposal remain the most effective means of eradicating the disease. That clear message should go out from this Parliament. There is no threat to human health. The vast majority of Britain's countryside is disease-free and open for business, subject to sensible precautions about staying away from farm land and farm animals. This outbreak will continue for some time and must, as the Commissioner said, be followed by a full inquiry. There is little doubt that the virulence of the virus and the extensive sheep movements just before the outbreak have been important factors in the spread of the disease. But we need to know more about the incubation period, the epidemiology of the virus and how farming practices have been contributing factors. I welcome the commitment of the Commissioner to look at all these and other factors. Pontificating on instant solutions in advance of an inquiry will not be helpful. – Mr President, a French-owned company is able to sell electricity to the British Prime Minister. I would like to ask the Commissioner when we are likely to see a situation when an English-owned company will be able to sell electricity to the French Prime Minister. Until that situation is reached, the idea of an internal market in energy is a political mirage. There has been a lot of comment about the pressure under which this debate is taking place. When the Commission's proposals first came out, it was the view of the British Government that they could be accepted as they stood. We have managed to bring in hundreds of amendments, which says a lot for the fertile imagination of Parliament. We make a bit of a rod for our own backs at times. By trying to bring in issues such as energy efficiency, renewable energy and social issues we complicate the matter further, these are better left for other types of legislation. I should like to make two points. On independent regulation, we regard this as essential if an internal market is to develop, because it provides the predictability and stability which consumers and new entrants need; but it should be for the Member State to reflect the different structures of national markets. On the question of third-party access to infrastructure, market entrants need to know that they can access infrastructure on the same terms as those that already exist. And they should be approved by the national regulator, rather than be the subject of one-sided negotiations between a monopoly infrastructure operator and a potential user. Mr President, last year, despite opposition from governments and farming organisations and a lukewarm response from this Parliament, a fundamental reform was agreed for the common agricultural policy. This will eventually totally disconnect payments to farmers from production. We are now dealing with cotton, tobacco, hops, and olive oil which are all products with regional sensitivities. The Commission proposals are something of a step backwards from the reforms of last year with the exception of hops. However, the Daul and Lavarra reports attempt to resist meaningful reform in cotton and tobacco and, to an extent, in olive oil. Only in the amendments which set a minimum of 60% decoupling for olive oil does the committee move closer to the reform package of last year. I fully understand the difficulties in these sectors and respect the work of the rapporteurs but in the longer term the rural economies which are affected by decoupling are best helped by development measures which can be targeted more directly and effectively. This is the approach for different products which is being applied in parts of my own region. I wish the Commission had been bolder in its original proposals, but I am prepared to support them. However, for the reasons given, I cannot support these two reports as they stand and my final vote will depend on which amendments are adopted. – Mr President, the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear plant has, of course, been widely applauded by Members in political groups in this House, but it could have happened earlier and the reasons why it did not are instructive. The Ukraine does not wish to increase its dependence of supplies from Russia and therefore it wished to complete the reactors at Khmelnitski and Rovno and in their eyes we have been rather slow in operating the memorandum of understanding that was concluded in 1995. However, the decision to make the Euratom loan available to complete those reactors marks a very important step towards improving EU/Ukraine relations because the loan agreement marks the willingness of Ukraine to operate its nuclear plant to safety standards equivalent to those in the European Union. It is one thing talking about the operational standards of safety, the other important aspect is the regulation of the industry. I am pleased that the Commissioner made such reference to the support that we give to regulators throughout eastern Europe, because this is the area that gives us the greatest concern. It is not in any way to challenge the competence of the regulator or his staff in Ukraine. It is a question of the power of the regulatory body to authorise start-up procedures to ensure stoppage for maintenance and to be the final arbiter for loading and restarting. There is still an outstanding need to satisfy the West that the status of the regulator in Ukraine, and in some other eastern European countries, is equivalent to western practice: it certainly should be established before K2 is finally commissioned. Paragraph 12 of the joint resolution calls for closer cooperation and dialogue between Ukraine and the European Parliament on energy-related matters. This is crucial to building up the Ukraine economy, because structural and technical improvements are also needed in the gas, oil and coal sectors and while the commitment of Ukraine to improving energy efficiency and developing renewable energy sources is welcome, the dominant factors for the foreseeable future will be fossil fuel and nuclear power. It is essential that this Parliament, its committees and its delegation to the Ukraine are linked into the work of the subcommittee of the political cooperation agreement which handles energy and environment issues. Parliament should also be kept fully informed of progress in the shelter construction, the decommissioning of the site and the completion of the two reactors. These are the pressing practical matters which must follow from the voting of this resolution. – Mr President, I came into the Chamber to vote against this report as a protest against the misleading and inaccurate comments made by Mrs McKenna in relation to the management of the nuclear reprocessing plant at Sellafield in the United Kingdom. I see that Mrs McKenna felt so strongly about the matter herself that she did not bother to attend the vote. I can only hope that the rest of the debate and the report are more accurate than Mrs McKenna. – Madam President, I supported this report with these qualifications: National allocations of the rural development fund are not equitable and should be changed during the mid-term review. The regulations should be more flexible and less bureaucratic. Measures to promote food safety, food quality and support for local products, while welcome, must not be allowed to distort competition. There is a wider rural world than farming and tourism. There are two districts in my region which have low unemployment, but low average incomes. Our ambition for rural areas must be higher economic activity and higher incomes. – Madam President, I wish to associate myself with the comments just made by Mr Vatanen. I too did not support the Jürgen Schröder report, specifically because paragraphs 43 and 44 call into question the completion of the Temelin nuclear power plant and, in fact, contradict the earlier paragraph 42 which welcomes the Melk Accord between the Czech Republic, the Austrian government and the European Commission in December 2000. The content of that accord and, in particular, the investigations into the environmental impact assessment that was agreed, have substantially been carried out. On my examination of the information there are no safety reasons why the commissioning of Number 1 reactor should not proceed. On the basis of this contradiction in the report I did not support it. – Mr President, the rapporteur deserves thanks and some sympathy for handling this difficult report. It is almost impossible to reconcile the conflicting commercial interests and the dispute with the WTO, but the rapporteur and the committee Chairman have worked hard to produce a report which provides the Commission and the Council with a more realistic negotiating brief. I hope that the Commission will respond positively to the amendments, not with the blanket negative view of the last debate, and will acknowledge that each amendment represents legitimate concerns. There are already indications that the Commission's first-come-first-served proposals are easing the negotiating process and that past trading volumes may yet be an element in the final outcome. The dispute with the WTO has resulted in retaliatory trade sanctions and it is not easy to explain this to the exporters in Member States who are affected in quite arbitrary and unrelated sectors. Our objective must be to achieve a revised banana regime that will be accepted at the WTO and reflect the EU commitment to the ACP and the most vulnerable suppliers in the Caribbean. Successive WTO rulings do not say that we cannot give preferential treatment to our traditional suppliers. The trick is how. The Commission must demonstrate that their needs will be addressed. It is not comfortable to accept the growth of trade liberalisation and a ‘tariff only’ system in the future, as the Commission has concluded, but it must be faced. The higher the tariff that can be negotiated, the less we will need other measures to help the ACP and the Caribbean. I believe that speeding up the negotiations gives the best guarantee of an acceptable tariff level, and for this reason, above all others, I call for full support for this report. – Mr President, this has not been an easy report for the committee to handle but there are two points which I believe need to be addressed by the Council when it is reaching its final decision. First, the concept of viability in the industry should be strengthened. Productivity improvements should be demonstrated where financial aid is made available. The second point is that because of low world prices, developing reserves in existing coalmines is very often difficult to finance and this accelerates the closure programme. Support for such developments should be included in the provisions. I would also like to associate myself with remarks made by Mr Markov. – Mr President, the Commissioner is to be warmly congratulated on the courage with which she has tackled this very difficult problem. I would like to make two points. First of all, for some of the accession countries, the question of financial provision is a very difficult one. Lithuania and Slovakia were specifically mentioned by the Council last week. Could the Commissioner tell us how that issue is going to be tackled? Secondly, about a year ago I took the initiative to invite Mr Lacoste, the chairman of the Nuclear Regulators' Association, to come to the Industry Committee. I have kept in touch with him since and we have discussed the possibility of him coming to the Parliament to give an annual report on what is happening. Could you foresee the inclusion of such a provision in your proposals? – Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteur for her handling of what is a very complex matter where both producing and non-producing Member States have serious reservations regarding the Commission proposals. In very broad terms, I welcome the Commission proposal to bring flax and hemp into the arable area payments scheme. A single area payment is in line with the view that growers should respond to market demands rather than be driven by CAP subsidies. However, I shall not repeat the many reservations about the proposals that colleagues have already mentioned. We should note that flax and hemp are environmentally-friendly crops. Compared with mainstream crops such as oil seeds and cereals, they require low levels of chemical and fertiliser treatment. They also produce renewable raw materials that can displace synthetic fibres derived from petroleum and other mineral resources. We should welcome, therefore, the expansion of industrial crop activity and the opportunities provided for diversification. However, I wish to raise the question of land eligibility, which appears to be a particular problem in the UK. Most of the flax and hemp grown in the UK is on land ineligible for arable area payments. The Commission proposals, as I understand them, threaten the UK growers and would leave UK processors with no domestic supply of raw material. It has been suggested that the land eligibility rules should be disregarded for flax and hemp so that any land could be used for those crops, but without an increase in the base area. This would allow expansion, should market conditions encourage growth, and allow new growers to enter the market. It would be helpful if the Commissioner could comment on this matter when he responds to the debate. – Mr President, the British Labour Members welcome the passage of the Dary report on the organisation of the banana market. We hope there will now be speedy negotiations to agree arrangements compatible with our WTO commitments and safeguard our traditional suppliers. We have, however, reservations on Amendments Nos 6, 7, 11, 15, 16, 25 and 26, as we do not exclude the possibility of a tariff-only system in the future. We also have reservations on Amendments Nos 17, 18, 27, 30 and 31, being not convinced that they are WTO compatible. We hope the passage of the report will also lead to early suspension of the trade sanctions imposed by the USA, which operate in quite arbitrary and unrelated sectors. . Mr President, there is complete agreement among the Council, the Commission and Parliament that we need to improve the traceability of sheep and goats. This was the clear conclusion of the experience derived from the outbreak of foot and mouth disease. There is also agreement that the eventual aim should be a cost-effective electronic identification system. The proposals from the Commission, which are the subject of this report, bridge the gap between present practice and the agreement to introduce electronic methods. The proposals envisage a complicated control system based on individual identification numbers and the recording of all these numbers when sheep and goats are moved. The proposals would certainly achieve the objective. Regrettably, they do not take into account the differing methods of sheep and goat rearing in the Member States: the difference in farming conditions from mountainous regions to lowland pasture or the differing sizes of sheep and goat herds, which can vary from a handful to thousands. They fail to take into account the differing numbers in the Member States, which can range from a few hundred thousand to millions. More seriously, the proposals would impose an impossibly costly and labour-intensive recording system where sheep numbers are large. The proposals are based on the current passport method which is used to trace the movement of cattle but, sadly, ignore the differences between cattle and sheep. The proposals fail to take into account cultural differences which, in other circumstances, we would be seeking to encourage. If the proposals were to be implemented they would threaten the future of sheep rearing in Europe as we know it. I suppose that getting rid of sheep is a sure way of getting rid of disease. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development simply asks, in this report, that the differing factors should be taken into account. Primarily, the committee unanimously wants batch control systems to be allowed as well as individual control, and for the Member States to be able to apply both systems according to circumstances. Batch systems can work. They do so now for pigs, though I would not claim that there is no difference between sheep and pigs. The committee amendments – which the Commissioner managed not to refer to – make detailed and effective rules for both systems of traceability. Common sense and economics should dictate which is used. Regrettably, Commissioner Byrne does not seem to have been listening to what has been going on in the Committee on Agriculture. I would like to end by quoting Commissioner Fischler, the Commissioner responsible for agriculture, who recently said: 'We want farmers to spend the bulk of their working days in the fields and not filling out forms.' – Madam President, I voted for the report with some reluctance because I feel there should be more urgency for reform than is actually contained within it. There are, in fact, some elements of protectionism and suggestions that would turn the CAP simply into an income policy for farmers. These are not welcome. The real challenge faced by the farming industry is to become more competitive and closer to the consumer. I do not think indefinite subsidy is a solution. *** . The British Labour MEPs have voted in favour of a sheep premium of EUR 25, an increase of 20% on the figure proposed by the Commission. Our objective was to pass on to sheep (and goat) farmers an increase in the annual premium but to keep within the expenditure limits set out in Agenda 2000 and keep us on track for CAP reform. The incomes of sheep farmers have not kept pace with other types of farming. This decision will help to correct the imbalance. Because the payment will be annual and known in advance, it will help farmers in their business planning. We particularly emphasise the importance we place on increased marketing support to encourage consumption and we look to the Commission to act with urgency. – Mr President, because of the various discussions that have taken place the rapporteur has had an unusually long time to work on this report and she is to be warmly thanked for the efforts that she has made. I was interested to discover that the United Kingdom appears to be the second largest producer of ethyl alcohol and, along with other producers, is of course concerned at increasing imports but rather static Community demand. We know that imports into the Community have tariff concessions which have been agreed by the Council of Ministers. The industry tells me that there are subsidy regimes in the exporting countries which naturally they do not view very favourably. Our producers are also concerned about the prospect of duty-free entry from the 48 least-developed countries. We understand these concerns, but I do not believe that removing the prohibition on state aid provisions, which are provided for in Amendments Nos 7 and 19, is a solution to the problem. I would certainly hope that these will be opposed and I will be voting against them. On the positive side, the specific measures proposed by the Commission are welcome. They are certainly preferable to an interventionist organisation and I welcome the change in nomenclature that the rapporteur has introduced. I hope that the provisions are non-discriminatory, that they will provide for the continuance of the trade without any great hindrance, and that our competitiveness will not be too much affected by imports. The proposals do involve a minimum degree of administration and documentation. I hope that Parliament will reject Amendments Nos 7 and 19, in which case I will be able to support the report. I cannot say that this is the view of all the Members of the PSE Group, but it is certainly the view of some of us. – Mr President, the common agricultural policy is out of date. It is urgently in need of reform if we are going to make a success of enlargement and of our commitment to open our markets to under-developed countries. Given the recent attitudes of the Council, the European Parliament has a heavy responsibility to give strong support to the Commission's proposals for a mid-term review. These, though not perfect, point in the right direction. Further market reform, with the decoupling of direct payments from production and the reinforcement of rural development, is most welcome. The proposals will put us in a stronger position in the World Trade Organisation negotiations. However, our Agriculture Committee is dominated by farmers and farmers' interests and it is blinded by two obsessions. The first is for protection against imported food and the second is for a guaranteed annual subsidy to be available to the farming industry as a whole. The concept of a really competitive European agriculture in the world market without subsidy is far from the Committee's thinking. The resolution pays lip service to reform but attaches so many conditions that I doubt whether the needs of enlargement, nor our obligations under the WTO, could be met. The agricultural policies should be redirected so that they encourage farmers to be more enterprising. Whatever financial assistance is given should not be seen as a right. It must be earned and in a manner that the public can accept. I would have liked to have seen the Commission proposals go further. We need to move towards world market prices by progressively reducing direct payments, we need to end quotas and make sure that the annual budget actually starts to reduce. It is ridiculous that 50% of our Community budget should be spent on a declining contribution to our GDP. .  Mr President, this report was adopted unanimously in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Its aim is to improve traceability in the event of an outbreak of disease, such as the recent outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease. The committee believes that batch control systems should be allowed as well as the individual control system proposed by the Commission. This is the main point of difference with the Commission. The committee's proposal means that Member States will be able to adopt systems that are in keeping with their own sheep farming methods. During the debate last night, Commissioner Byrne did not move any closer to the committee's viewpoint. We agree on the need to improve traceability, but the issue dividing us is that harmonisation of the objective does not necessarily mean harmonisation of the method. By contrast, the Italian presidency has been extremely helpful, and the Council is now very close to the committee's position. For these reasons, after intensive procedural discussions this morning, involving the political groups and especially Mr Parish, the PPE-DE Group's shadow rapporteur, we agreed that we should now conclude this matter during the Italian presidency. The strongest political signal we can give is that we should follow the unanimous vote in committee by a unanimous vote for the report this morning. – Mr President, I very much welcome this balanced and thoughtful report. It is a report which is very well worth reading. My first visit to Ukraine was back in 1991, soon after independence, to attend a health conference. More recently my visits have largely centred on nuclear issues. Last week I met a group of ten members of the Rada who were in Brussels to learn of our institutional relationships. In all the contacts that I have made over the years I have been struck by the desire for closer links with the European Union. Ukraine has not found the transition to a market economy an easy process. They have yet to bring their regulatory and financial structures closer to our own. Privatisation goes ahead slowly. But we should look upon these efforts in positive terms and with understanding. It is almost impossible to talk about Ukraine without reference to nuclear power. I believe I am the only Member of this Parliament who has visited Chernobyl, Khmelnitsky and Rivne, the three stations which have featured frequently in our debates. The latter are the two sites where reactors are now being completed to western safety standards. But we should recognise that Ukraine also has a coal industry and is pushing ahead to promote energy efficiency and renewable sources. Our financial support should encompass the whole sector. Concerning the report of the European Investment Bank, I would include support for tourism and agriculture. The latter has plummeted in recent years and both can do much to drive the economy forward. I hope that this report will be strongly supported tomorrow and that the Members of the Rada will see in its adoption an emphatic endorsement of their wish for ever-closer relations with the European Union. – Mr President, the report deals with a most difficult subject: the prospects for young people in the farming industry, as the rapporteur has indicated, are probably worse than at any time since the creation of the CAP and their prospects cannot be separated from those of the industry as a whole or from the prosperity of the rural communities. One measure of the complexity of the situation can be found in the courses which are now offered at agricultural colleges. At the two colleges in my region the number of courses relating to farming has now fallen to 40% in one case, and the remaining 60% of the courses relate to horses and small animals. Significantly, 70% of the students, however, come from farming families, so there is still that link. The report spells out that there is a strong case for measures to encourage new entrants to the industry and for achieving a much greater degree of standardisation across the European Union, and the issue, as the rapporteur mentioned, was well dealt with in the excellent STOA report at the beginning of last year. There are many good examples in that document of the valuable background material which we were able to use during discussions in committee. Now that the rural development programme is in place it is important to examine how this programme can be used to strengthen training and re-training facilities in our agricultural colleges. I would emphasise the need for training in farm diversification, including low-volume products for niche markets, and cooperative marketing techniques where, by coming together, individual farms can seek to match the commercial bargaining strength of the supermarket chains. I would also wish to see such courses paying special attention to the needs of the smaller farm where new entrants are most likely to be found. I hope that the Commission and the national governments will take note of the many excellent suggestions in this report and thus give a boost to the future prosperity of farming in the rural areas. – Mr President, British Labour Members voted against the report because our amendments to remove errors of fact were not carried. These errors remain in paragraphs 15, 22, 25, 26, 30, 31, 32 and 33. In addition, the following paragraphs contain statements which are not supported by the evidence and findings of the lessons to be learned and Royal Society reports: paragraphs 6, 16 and 25. The following paragraphs contain statements not in line with the balance of evidence presented to the committee or contain errors of fact of lesser importance than those to which amendments were tabled: paragraphs 3, 7, 9, 11, 20, 21, 34 and 57. – Mr President, the EU-Lithuania Joint Parliamentary Committee met in Brussels last week and the discussions confirmed the progress made towards accession which is spelt out in paragraphs 78 to 84 of the report. Two chapters remain to be closed. Firstly in agriculture, where some flexibility on the issue of quotas would be welcome and secondly, in the financial chapter, where the contribution to the financing of the closure of the Ignalina nuclear power plant and the provision of alternative electricity generation are outstanding matters. This requires agreement on the decommissioning procedures and the timescale. The JPC noted the need to closely monitor progress with the SAPARD, Phare and Ispra programmes and to ensure that Lithuania is fully prepared to exploit the structural and rural funding possibilities after accession. The early approval of the single programming document is essential in this respect. Regarding the recent agreement made over the Russian enclave of Kaliningrad, I want to stress that Lithuanian sovereignty must be respected and Schengen membership not compromised. We are, however, concerned that the practical problems may delay the implementation. I have made a study of the nuclear aspects of accession. The closures of the nuclear power plants at Ignalina and Kozloduy both require an energy strategy which takes neighbouring countries into account. For example the completion of Unit 2 at Cernovoda is fully justified by the Phare study of August 2001. The closure of units 3 and 4 at Kozloduy should be reassessed in the light of the International Atomic Energy Agency's conclusion, in its report, issued in June that these units have reached a level of operational safety which corresponds to those of the same age in other parts of the world. I hope that the Council will agree to such a revaluation. – Mr President, I have an interest, though not a financial one, in this subject in that I am chairman of the Northern Energy Initiative, a company which operates in the north-east of England, and has within it a renewable energy agency whose objective is to promote the development of renewable energies. The UK has a low proportion of electricity from renewable sources, I believe amongst the lowest. Yet the studies in my home region have demonstrated considerable potential for renewable projects: wind, including offshore, small hydro, landfill gas, waste incineration, biofuels and photovoltaics. It is important to have EU and national targets, but it is also important to have a European directive which will support efforts at local and regional level, where many of the decisions are actually taken. In general terms, there is a need to build up an awareness amongst architects and potential customers of the technologies that are available. Support for demonstration projects should be included in any directive. Larger developments often fail to get planning permission, sometimes because of public opposition. More proactive planning guidance, preferably linked to regional renewable targets, and feasibility studies would be helpful additions to the directive. Access to the grid system at fair prices is crucial. The disincentive of high capital costs of connection to the grid from remote renewable sites and the prevention of transmission penalties are other issues which the directive should tackle. I hope that the Commission will take note of these points. I would urge support for the amendment to assist the promotion of renewables in the remote islands of the Community. I am sure that this was an oversight in the drafting of the text. I have to say that the British Labour Members will vote against the exclusion of waste incineration from the definition of renewables, on the understanding that this refers to material which cannot be recycled. – Mr President, first I should like to thank my colleague Mr Oostlander for letting me move up the speakers' list so that I can go back to my visitors' group. This debate, on which there is a great degree of consensus, is not about whether Turkey joins the EU, but about what sort of country Turkey is. In the raid that was authorised by the state security corps, in the words of the Human Rights Association, and I quote, ‘all of our private notebooks, all notes, all of our computers, our files and all our reports were taken, all faxes and e-mails sent to the offices were read and some were taken away’. Not only is this not good for Turkey, it is also highly destabilising that an agent of the state, namely the state security corps, is acting so clearly against the interests of Turkey. The message it is sending outside is that it is trying to subvert the very democracy that the Turkish Government is trying to build. Is it not ironic that immediately after the raid the officials go to meet the foreign minister and the minister for human rights? It is our job as a Parliament to place ourselves firmly behind those people in Turkey who are promoting democracy, to make it quite clear that we support those agents of the state who are saying that this is not the way to run it and that we support people like Abdullah Gul, who clearly was deeply upset by this activity. The fact of the matter is that in a modern democratic state, the state security corps and the military have to be subordinate to the civilian power – that is the definition of a modern democratic state. There are many people in Turkey working towards those aims and I believe that this Parliament, in passing this resolution, can give support to those people. We are not saying yes or no to Turkey in the EU; we are saying we want to back the people of Turkey in making their country a decent, good sort of place that they will all be proud to live in. – Madam President, on a point of order. In your legal  you seem to imply that at some point the UK authorities had asked for my immunity to be waived – or that is how it came through in the interpretation. I should like to assure you that never happened, although I did give evidence in a case which involved a Member for whom a similar request was made. Mr President, I should like to make it clear that the Bureau asked the Committee on Budgets to take a certain action, which Mrs Gill, as Budget rapporteur, could have done. She declined to do so. The Bureau requested that Members who were over 60 when they retired, had served at least two terms in the European Parliament and were prepared to pay  on the same basis as all the staff  one third of the costs of the scheme, would  as is the case for every member of staff of this institution  be admitted to a sickness scheme if they did not have adequate national insurance. The Bureau, which was unanimous in its view, put forward a very humane request. I do not think that Mrs Gill, as budget rapporteur, reacted in a friendly, humane or reasonable way to that request. A study will now be produced, and I hope that when it is finished the Budgets Committee, which spends millions of pounds on very dubious projects ...  ... will realise that it also owes a duty to senior and often ill Members of this House who have given a lot of service, and that those Members are prepared to pay to be in an insurance scheme which is more than any of us, as present Members, are prepared to do. I hope that this matter will be looked at again by the Budgets Committee but I restate that all Mrs Gill had to do was take the recommendation of the Bureau  not of this Quaestor  and place it before this House for a vote. If she thinks the Budgets Committee is superior to the House I suggest she go back to constitutional school. – Mr President, on numerous occasions the European Parliament has called for a widening of sanctions against the Mugabe regime and their rigorous enforcement. Yet there has been effectively no response from the Council. At the moment when the whole question of democratic accountability in the EU is under discussion, it is time the Council took more notice of European Parliament resolutions. The Council did renew, but in a weakened form, the sanctions against the regime. The travel ban against Mugabe and senior members of his regime has not been effectively enforced. Indeed, only last month the Trade and Industry Minister attended an EU meeting in the EU capital, Brussels, organised by the ACP, an institution created by the EU. We cannot even manage to enforce a travel ban in respect of our own institutions. In November last year it was left to the European Parliament to enforce the sanctions by denying the Zimbabwean representatives access to the European Parliament. That, of course, led to the postponement of that meeting, but we have to face this down. If African countries are willing to wreck the ACP for the sake of defending Mugabe, let them do it, but let us stop making exceptions all the time with respect to this travel ban. The situation is very much more serious at the moment. There are daily troubles in Zimbabwe, food and fuel are increasingly in short supply, inflation is running at 50% a month, and consumer prices will rise by 300% at least in the next few months. Zimbabweans are starving, 12.6 million are in need of food aid, and the strikes and demonstrations which have been taking place are evidence of the failure of the international community to act effectively against Mugabe. This resolution calls for us to renew our efforts. – Mr President, did the Conference of Presidents take a decision regarding the exclusion of the two Zimbabwean diplomats who are on our banned list? I understand that the Conference of Presidents was to decide whether or not they should be banned from the building. I should like to know what was their decision. Mr President, for most of this year the College of Quaestors, with the support of the Bureau, has been trying to amend the budget to extend the health insurance scheme to former Members as long as: they have served at least two terms in the European Parliament; are aged at least 60 when they leave the European Parliament; and the costs of the scheme will be shared in the same way as for Parliament's officials except that, additionally, former Members will pay a premium equivalent to roughly five years' contributions into the scheme. This will put this category of former Members in the same position as staff with the same length of service. In this multi-million euro budget, Miss Gill has sought to frustrate this modest and comparatively inexpensive scheme at every opportunity. Her attitude towards her ageing former colleagues has been cruel, vindictive and hypocritical. While she condemns them to a painful and sick old age she has no similar reservations regarding her own benefits. I challenge Miss Gill to tell us whether she makes use of Parliament's private health reimbursement scheme and whether or not she benefits from Parliament's voluntary pension scheme. Miss Gill's attitude has been and remains a disgrace. Even now I hope she will soften her attitude, but I fear I will hope in vain. Mr President, I just wish out point out, so that Members are not in any way confused, that it is Amendment 1 – the first vote on this report – which ascertains whether or not Parliament is in favour of the theory of setting up a health scheme for former Members. Those who are in favour will vote 'yes'; those who wish to abandon their former colleagues will vote 'no'. Mr President, as Chairman-in-Office of the College of Quaestors, I wish to point out for the purposes of the Rules that my Group is present but not taking part in the vote. . I appreciate the hard work that my friend and colleague, Jacques Poos, has put into preparing this report but regret that I cannot vote for this in the final vote. Had the amendments tabled by my friend Andrew Duff been passed, I would have been able to support the report. Europe has, in recent years, seen and accepted the separation of the Czech Republic and Slovakia, the dissolution of the former Soviet Union and the gradual break up of Yugoslavia. Yet we seem unable to accept the rights of the Turkish population of Cyprus to be accorded their rights to a separate administration and indeed, if this cannot be achieved, the right to secede from the Republic of Cyprus and follow a path of self determination as far from the smallest country in the world. The Cypriot Turks have as much right to self-determination as the Cypriot Greeks. For many years the Greek Cypriot sought enosis (union) with Greece. The Turkish Cypriots should have the same right, though my own preference would be for two equal states united in some form of bi-zonal, bi-communal federation within the European Union. – Mr President, I understand that at the beginning of today's sitting a point was raised about the travel office and the fact that the current staff are to make way for a new company. I would like to make it clear that the Quaestors were not consulted about this change. They should have been, and an undertaking was given that they would be before a tender was awarded, but they were not consulted. I have managed to speak only to Mary Banotti so far, but I can assure you that we will take this matter up. . – I regret I cannot support the Poos report on Cyprus. The fourth round of Cyprus proximity talks took place in New York from 12-26 September. The parties have agreed to meet next in Geneva on 1-10 November. The UN settlement process has now lasted since December 1999 without a break, longer than any of the previous attempts to solve the Cyprus problem. The UN Secretary-General's Special Adviser on Cyprus, Alvaro de Soto, said at his press briefing on 26 September that a "qualitative step forward" had taken place in the fourth round of talks. He emphasised that, while there is still a long way to go, the two sides had engaged in substance during the talks in a way that they had not done before. He observed that new ground was being broken, which might cause nervousness in some quarters. But he looked forward in the coming months to building on the progress that has already been made. He also noted that the UN was already in contact with the EU in order to ensure that there was no clash with the goals of the United Nations process. As Mr de Soto noted, we do not expect progress to be easy, and the success of the UN process is far from assured. The UK position is that it is vital for us to do everything we can to show our support for the Secretary-General's efforts. Unfortunately some of the comments made in the draft report on the application by Cyprus for membership of the European Union by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy are not helpful. The use of polemical language and the one-sided impression given of MEPs' views risks undermining the process. I therefore hope that MEPs will do all they can to encourage the European Parliament to express its support for progress in the UN settlement process, based on the continuing goodwill of all parties in that process and that they will ensure that the European Parliament does not produce statements or take positions which might cut across that process. Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission for its statement. Probably uniquely in this House, I actually knew Leyla Zana before she was tried and convicted. I first met her in the late 1980s. She is, to put it mildly, a controversial figure. Nonetheless the action that she took is perfectly within the realms of democratic expression. After all, all she did was to say something in the Kurdish language within her Parliament. Mrs Ahern and others sometimes choose to use the Irish language within this Parliament. Indeed my Quaestor colleague, Mrs Banotti, did so in her opening speech. However, I do not think even the worst enemies of Fine Gael would wish Mrs Banotti to be locked up for 15 years for that. There has been complete over-reaction from the very beginning. The way in which the trial was conducted was unacceptable and it was thanks to the intervention of the Council of Europe that a retrial was held. It is a great disappointment to me and my group that the Turkish judicial authorities did not show themselves to have sufficient flexibility to use this opportunity of having a retrial that would effectively have exonerated Mrs Zana. She has been the victim of what is in effect a struggle between a reactionary judiciary and a state that is trying to reform. I welcome the packages of reforms that have been adopted and I also welcome the fact that the state security courts are to be abolished. This is not before time. Some people are indeed working hard for democracy in Turkey, and the AKP deputy Faruk Ünsal spoke out against this particular verdict. I hope that in passing in what I think will be a unanimous resolution, supported right across the House, that we can send a message, not to the Turkish Government but to the Turkish judiciary, to be realistic, to get up to date and, for a change, to support their government in trying to restore respect for the Turkish judiciary within Turkey. - Mr President, firstly can I say that the EMAC report is pretty good and I hope we do not amend it too much. The key word is “supplementary” pensions. We are not trying to relieve poverty or provide a basic income in retirement. The second point is that it is important that we provide decent pensions to enable citizens to move around Europe. So I welcome the emphasis on removing the restrictions on the investment of pension fund portfolios and support the objective of removing barriers to labour mobility. The key is to keep it simple or it will not work, it will not remove the obstacles. As Mr Tannock has said, there are demographic pressures upon us and it is in our interest to facilitate the development of supplementary pension schemes both around Europe and also in many countries within Europe. On the issue of biometric risks, which we have heard a lot about, clearly a pension by definition has one biometric risk, which is longevity. Once you start building on top of that, you are on dangerous ground if you make it a condition of a passport. What we need is to have a very simple proposition, and then let the market sort the rest of it out because that is what the market is for. The biometric risks problem means many different things to different people. We must try and get a simple product which is marketable and can be moved around this market, because if we do not, we will end up with a product that does not work at all that the different Member States cannot make use of. So the key is to keep it simple and make it work. – Thank you, Commissioner, for your statement. I am sure that none of us here will object to fraud and tax evasion being tackled but I must say that it is necessary to maintain the confidence of citizens in the Union, and I think that many Member State governments will be wishing to look very carefully at any extension of QMV before agreeing to it. It does strike very much at the heart of what is perceived as the national ability to conduct one's affairs. I am thinking in particular of things such as the withholding tax, which it would have been quite unacceptable to have subjected to a QMV regime. I hope those points will be borne in mind when you look at the practicality of getting the package through. We are very happy to combat fraud and tax evasion and to improve social security legislation, but there are some points where there will be difficulty in convincing all the Member States to follow. – Mr President, I think we would all agree that, if we are to run the Community properly, we need a high-quality statistical base within the Community and the applicant countries. There has been a broad welcome in the House for this proposal and the apparent ability to give priority to the revenue actually collected rather than the more notional contributions which may be due. This is certainly a step forward. It seems logical to use the revenue collected as the basis for determining the actual percentage deficit. So far as the transition period is concerned, many of us will have sympathy with the need for some form of transition because, clearly, if you amend the regulations in such a way that you move from a system which is being used over a long period of time to a completely new system some time will be required. However, I hope that the countries of the Union will not use this as an excuse, if it is passed, but seek to implement the new system as rapidly as they can – in other words, two years should be regarded as an exception and as a maximum rather than as the normal ration for the job. On the treatment of taxes and social contributions, I agree with the rapporteur that this is a relevant way of doing the calculations and that we should take a favourable view of the criteria which the Commission intends to set because of the way in which priority is given. Overall, this is a useful step forward. I welcome the commitment of the Commission. I hope that we can work together and see this translated into Community law with suitable adjustments as soon as possible. – Madam President, I begin by declaring an interest as the joint president of the Hong Kong Friendship Group, joint, that is, as with my good friend and colleague, Mr De Clercq, from the ELDR Group. The first point I would like to make – and this has been alluded to by my friend and colleague, Mr Cushnahan – is that Hong Kong cannot pass law under its constitution if it contravenes the international standards of human rights. My second point is that all countries need security legislation. I would argue that even what is proposed is milder than the recent Homelands Security Act passed in the United States, without much obvious protest from this House. We asked the Hong Kong authorities to ensure that the Article 23 proposal would not be used to silence opposition. I shall give a couple of quotes. A few days ago on 27 November, Mr Antony Leung, the Financial Secretary, was in the European Parliament. From the minutes of the meeting he attended – and I quote: 'He gave a very personal reassurance of the government's commitment to upholding the rule of law and the guarantees of human rights and freedoms set out in the Basic Law and enshrined in the Hong Kong legal system'. That was in front of our Members very recently. A few days ago, on 10 December, the former financial secretary, now acting Chief Executive, Donald Tsang, said in a speech in Hong Kong: 'The free flow of information, the freedom to say and do what we want are the very fabric of Hong Kong society'. I put it to you that there is concern. I also look forward to having a clear and detailed provision and would like to see a draft bill for us to debate. But let us concentrate on getting good legislation, and not fall victim to those who want to campaign against the PRC by proxy. Mr President, could you give the House some indication as to whether you intend to break for lunch? There are a lot of votes and there are a couple of official delegations, one from the Australian Parliament, waiting for our colleague Mr Sturdy to host lunch with them. It is also 2.10 p.m.! – Mr President, I see two problems with this morning’s debate. Firstly, when I came to this Parliament many years ago I was told that if you had a difficult job you gave it to a Liberal. Now I have been told that if you have a difficult debate you know you are in trouble if half the Luxembourg Members are in the Chamber at one time – and they are. Firstly, I welcome proposal No 1. It simplifies things and brings things up to date. I think many of the British Members will be voting against a large number of the amendments in the report. We support the Schmidt report on proposal No 1, but we regret the fact that the directive sets a lot of quantity limits that restrict the ability to spread risks. We believe that a more liberal market is the best way forward. Secondly, we consider proposal No 2 to be very confused. It is difficult to understand, and we think the Commission would be well advised to look at it again. If further regulation is needed, we feel that it could be better achieved by other means than those proposed in the directive. In particular, we disagree with the proposal on capital requirements because if they are put too high they could actually drive some businesses out of the industry altogether. We ask the Commission to look again at these proposals. Finally, we would urge Members to vote in particular against Amendment No 41 on capital requirements, because we feel that this would be very bad for the industry. . All Members of the House benefit from free medical insurance. It is a sad example of a failure of solidarity between generations that an alliance principally composed of Socialists and Greens has voted against even an investigation into extending the system to retired Members. . – I am deeply concerned to read the many criticisms of the United Kingdom in this report. I note that most Labour members voted for the passages concerned with the UK and can well understand their despair at the state of the United Kingdom after just under five years of a Labour Government. For myself, I felt obliged to vote against the report. Possibly, at the next election the Labour Members should unite around the slogan: 'Things can only get better'. – Madam President, I have no more information than you on this series of arrests. No-one has informed me about it but I am sure that will happen in the course of the evening and I will then tell Mr Tannock. I should like to point out, though, that whilst we welcome the new security on the periphery, this building has to operate in the interests of Members. I hope that the Bureau will reconsider the question of security and try to fine-tune it somewhat, because far too many Members are having their visitors and other groups seriously inconvenienced by the way the rules are being applied. They can be applied a little more subtly. I hope we can do that. As regards Mr Tannock's question, I will find out what I can and inform him and the House. – Madam President, I also regret that a British comedy programme sought to make light of Parliament and would point out that my own group has, of course, already published its register of interests on the Internet. It remains open to Mr Davies' group to follow suit and follow our lead in putting the register of interests on the Internet. In the meantime, I agree with him. I think the sooner this is on the Internet, the better. It is a matter of public record. There is no reason why it should be kept secret. That is the point I believe the Quaestors will be urging on the Bureau in the near future. – Mr President, on a point of order. I am always pleased when my fellow graduates from the London School of Economics get up to make clever speeches. I would point out that I am here in this group to assist Mr Blair, whose main allies in Europe, according to the Labour Party press, are Mr Aznar and Mr Berlusconi. I will be able to help Mr Blair far more from this group than I could from the other group!  And anybody who imagines that I have been putting forward socialist principles in the Socialist Group for the last two or three years has clearly not listened closely to the nuances of my position. I stood as an Independent and I am still an Independent – as everyone who has had to deal with me realises! – On behalf of the quite large Non-attached Group of thirty-plus Members, some of them refugees from other places, I congratulate you on taking office. This is a wide and diverse group with a lot of political philosophies, which stretch across the whole range, but they have in common the fact that they all have a political mandate, they have all been supported by thousands, indeed often millions of people in various ballot boxes in different countries. Winston Churchill once said that democracy can be inconvenient, but it is the best system we know. You also, in your introduction, made a point about people who feel marginal. Often, people within this group have felt marginal; indeed some of them used to be in a group that was dissolved and they felt very unhappy about the way that was done. I do not wish to make any political points because it would be very difficult to find a common political point in this group; but I do want to point out what unites all the members of the Non-attached Group, which is that we look to you for fairness, we look to you for reasonable treatment, we look to you to recognise people in this part of the House when they speak and we look to you to recognise that although many of us may be awkward, we are nonetheless democrats and we nonetheless wish to play a part in the workings of this House. You come from a small country and a small group; indeed we know that you come from a very small group because you were a group of one when you came from Ireland. I am now a group of one so that gives us something in common. So, from one member of a group of one to another member of a group of one, let me say: congratulations. We look forward to working with you and I know all my colleagues on these new benches look forward to you treating them fairly and, I hope, giving them the democratic respect which I know they all deserve. – Madam President, being consistent and on the same matter I wish to point out that the British Government is absolutely even-handed in its arrest policy. It also arrested a couple of members of the House of Commons, a few members of the Scottish Executive and various others who were actually breaking the law, which is generally the reason you get arrested in the United Kingdom. We were according equal rights to Euro-parliamentarians by arresting them along with all the others. May they be kept locked up for a suitable period of time to deter them from being so stupid in the future! Mr President, I would like to add my thanks to Louise McVay, to the rapporteur, and also to my two colleagues from the region, Mr Helmer who is here today and will be speaking later on, and to Mr Heaton Harris who also followed this matter very closely. I am sure many of us know somebody who has suffered from, or has, multiple sclerosis, and I take Mr Howitt's last point. But let us start by remembering, as the Commissioner said, that health is not an EU issue. It is something we can help with, but we must not be deluded into thinking that it is a power of ours. Indeed it is not even a Member State issue. The British Government in its devolution has devolved health to Scotland, because often the best remedies are found close to home. Indeed, if we are going to apply the precautionary principle anywhere it should be applied to the extension of EU legislation into areas that are best dealt with locally. Having said that, I welcome this report which has many positive things in it. Firstly the code of best practice, and secondly closer international scientific collaboration. Having said that things are often best done at local level, many things can also be done at a European, or even a wider level. We should not forget the centres of research excellence, particularly in the United States, and we should seek as wide a collaboration as we can. Insofar as the EU can assist in that, through the research programmes etc., we certainly should. Clearly, as the report says, we should involve service users in the research. Things need to be done with the cooperation of people, not for them. As such, we in this Group also support strongly the call for a Europe-wide study to be undertaken, clearly in cooperation with the WHO, because we want to spread the knowledge and gather the knowledge as widely as possible. We welcome, as the report says, the comparative evaluation being undertaken by the European Multiple Sclerosis Centre. All of these are good and positive things. Turning to the problem of drugs – and this is a problem because, in British terms, where you live can affect what you get – we can produce the information but we cannot direct people how to spend their medical resources, and I am pleased to say that this report does not say that. But people who have MS clearly must be encouraged to play a full part in the community and such discrimination as exists within the community cannot be allowed to stand. One of the things we have to be constantly on the lookout for is giving people a fair deal and making it possible for them to play a full part in the community, as full a part as any of us. I would like to talk about two of the amendments on introducing this precautionary principle. They are unnecessary and divisive. The chemicals directive and chemicals policy is the subject of a separate effort within this House. If you are going to apply the precautionary principle to toxic chemicals, let us look at it in the context of the chemicals directive. Maybe we should also consider that some people might talk about applying the precautionary principle to new treatments. The precautionary principle is a separate subject and accordingly our Group cannot support Amendments 1 or 2. This has nothing to do with us not wanting the best treatment for sufferers from MS, it has to do with sheer common sense and dealing with things in the appropriate place. I close by saying that I welcome this report. I commend all the people who have contributed to it and we look forward to supporting it. – Since the matter has been raised in the public arena, could I place on record the reason for the Quaestors’ recommendation? We believe that the term “constituency weeks” was an unfortunate one. They are weeks without meetings but they are weeks when the Commission, the Council and all other agents of this Parliament, including the political groups, are hard at work. If we are going to Nice to ask for more powers for this Parliament it is hardly a good precedent for us to send the whole Parliament off for four weeks, away from the place where they are elected to do their duty. Consequently, we believe that those Members – and there are many of them – who are writing reports, chairing committees, running groups and have legitimate reasons to be here should, on declaration of those objectives, be able to come and do their work in the place that they were elected to do it. Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would also like to congratulate Mr Lange. Over the last few weeks, and literally single-handed, he has achieved – that was a pun! – quite incredible results with the Council. We now have a second reading agreement which we can all probably support. With one or two reservations, I think Mr Callanan will also be able to put his hand up for most things, so I think that we have a very good result. This is a very important step forward in controlling emissions in a sector not really yet touched. A whole range of non-road mobile machinery – construction equipment, barges and all sorts of niche equipment we have not yet though about – is going to be brought sensibly under control, putting an end to a lot of smelly diesel fume emissions in all sorts of strange places that prompt complaints. Sensible arrangements have been made for seasonal agricultural equipment and special equipment such as the diesel engines used to launch lifeboats in the UK, all of which have limited hours of operation every year. I think, quite frankly, that the ambitions of Parliament, as expressed by the Committee on the Environment, have exceeded the wishes of the Commission and the Council, particularly with regard to diesel engine trains. This is an area that we need to revisit at a future time and examine the particular circumstances that exist in the new Member States when they enter the Union. But we are now reaching a point where we can thoroughly support, by a large majority, the outcome of the rapporteur's work. I congratulate him on his efforts and hope that we will make future progress on the outstanding matters within an appropriate timescale. – Mr President, I have a speech here, but I must admit that Mrs Jackson has rather distracted me into thinking about how things get better and better after you reach a certain age. Clearly Mrs Jackson has reached that certain age and she now thinks everything in the past better than it is now. Like Mrs Jackson, I also wish to thank the rapporteur for her good work. This document is worth voting for, but it would be more worthwhile voting for if it contained a few more of Parliament's amendments. In the field of chemicals policy, the field of preserving biodiversity, climate change, transport and the protection of air and water quality, there are clear and worthwhile proposals that could be built upon in the conciliation process. In the field of fiscal policy, there are some serious and sensible suggestions in Parliament's amendments. However, the setting at the moment of any kind of European-wide environmental taxes must be better thought out. At the moment it is like taking a sledgehammer to crack a whole series of very different nuts, with what I would guess would be very limited success. We must now as a Parliament unite and tomorrow morning take the next step into conciliation, where we are going to have to work together with a view to achieving a common viewpoint to the way in which we are going to protect the environment of our common European home and preserve it for future generations. I look forward to taking that step tomorrow morning and to the Christian Democrats helping us to do so. – Mr President, I welcome the Commission proposal. It is a genuine and honest attempt to try to meet the demands of the public with regard to this issue. The rapporteur's reports have been a genuine attempt to improve that proposal. It means that we are a step closer to having proper and rational use of GM technology within Europe. I hope it is a step closer to getting the moratorium lifted so that we can start to approve new GM products which will be of benefit to all and utilise the new legislation, of which I was the author last year. It gives much higher protection than the legislation which is currently used in the crop trials now taking place in the European Union. We have to continue to ask questions. Is this really giving the public what they want? When members of the public contact me, by email, postcard, telephone or personally, they do not say "please give us the chance to eat food that contains less than 1% GMO". They say "please give us the chance to choose to eat food that has no GMO in it, that is GMO-free, so that we can make a genuine choice between GMO and no GMO". I do not believe this proposal does that. It will label food that contains a substantial quantity of GMO, but it will leave on the shelf in the supermarket many different substances and products that are not labelled, but that contain GMO. The public will be misled; the public will be confused; the public will again not have confidence and trust in the labelling systems that we propose for their benefit in this House. We have to think again. I doubt whether this proposal, in its present form, unless it is well amended, is going to be of positive benefit to the public. We have to tell people the truth about what is in their food. Ninety-nine percent of the truth is not honest; it is not good enough; it is not the necessary 100%. – Madam President, as a member of Parliament's Delegation for relations with the People's Republic of China, I welcome the statement and reassurances given by Mr Byrne. The Commission statement and our debate today highlight a very important problem that the whole world – indeed mankind globally – should take an interest in. We should be alert to and aware of the dangers of sudden outbreaks of highly infectious and dangerous diseases which can suddenly spread on a global basis. Given modern transport systems, we should all be aware of the potential problems. It can be very difficult – especially in the early stages in remote areas – to identify a dangerous outbreak that has global implications. Nevertheless, we should congratulate the Chinese authorities on cooperating with an international organisation, the WHO, in its investigations into the specific characteristics of the disease and the particular modes of transmission. We look forward to further enhanced cooperation by the Chinese authorities with regard to this matter. As with all outbreaks of this kind, lessons must be learned. We would call in particular on the Chinese authorities to set an example to the world and hold a full, public and transparent inquiry into the outbreak of this disease and its means of transmission. We hope they will involve fully, where appropriate, international bodies, in particular the WHO, and ensure that the whole world learns lessons from China's experiences in dealing with this incident. We can expect to see further incidents of this type in future. Sudden and rapidly spreading epidemics of poorly understood diseases are certain to occur elsewhere and at other times. It is in Europe's interest and the whole world's interest that China shows the world what must be done in these circumstances. Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done so far. I am quite sure we can carry on with this work and make sure that we have a good result in the end. I also want to start by congratulating the Commission – yes, I do mean it! When we started to look at this proposal we had to bear in mind that it came out of the original discussions on the control of VOC emissions from some years ago when we first looked at the problem: the emission of VOCs from large industrial plants, from large garages, from large petrol stations and so forth. At that point we recognised there was a serious problem. Yes, we could take action to control large-point sources – and we did. We asked the Commission to come forward with some proposals to solve the other problem we had identified at that time, which was the hundreds of thousands of small-point sources across the Union in different places, largely associated with the use of paints, but many other issues as well. Sometimes it was small garage paint-shops, sometimes it was domestic use of paint, sometimes it was other substances in other places. I wish to thank and congratulate the Commission. It has actually tackled this issue as we asked it to do. It has brought forward a proposal which is very good, not quite perfect – but nothing ever is – and is taking a proposal from this Parliament seriously and acting on it. The Commission has also recognised that this proposal to reduce VOC emissions is going to have an important effect on the environment. It is going to reduce ground-level ozone. It is going to make sure that we reduce the incidence of asthma caused by ground-level ozone. It is going to cut plant damage. It is going to reduce other environmental effects. It has not been easy to come forward with this proposal. It has disclosed a large number of technical issues that we had not originally foreseen. We thank the Commission for tackling those complex issues we did not at first expect. Mr Davies has already mentioned that there are some technical issues that we still have to tackle. We cannot ignore, for example, some of these issues which are still left on the table. I appeal to the Commission to accept the amendments proposed by some of my colleagues on the question of occupational health and the impact upon the health of workers in these circumstances. This is an issue we cannot ignore. We have to go forward with it. We should also mention the importance of maintaining a degree of choice and competition in the marketplace for consumers. We should therefore continue to uphold the equal technical criteria for all paints and not give an unfair advantage to water-based paints. Let us have those options available to people. Let the market be free. Let us have some competition. Let us stay inside the equal label criteria we already have. Finally, we have to recognise the real difficulties of applying these new proposals in every circumstance and on every application that we find in the vast array of options inside the European Union. I would ask the Commission to think carefully about some of the exceptions we have looked at here: small quantities of paints prepared in traditional ways, often for traditional uses, whether it be for old cars or for buildings. There are many old buildings in Britain. It is a place where we perhaps have too many old buildings which in some cases require specialist, old fashioned, old-style paints to maintain their fabric. I appeal to you to have some respect, not just for the present environment that we live in, not just for public health, but for the old environment, the built environment, the one we are trying to preserve. It would not hurt too much to accept amendments on those questions as well and to give us a rounded proposal we can all be proud of, that we might even get a second-reading agreement on. – Mr President, firstly I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the report which has been a difficult one in terms of reaching a balance between the interests of what is clearly the very important – and very immediate – issue of fire safety and the more difficult, but more long-term problem of future harm to public health and the environment. The substances which are the subject of this report have clear and demonstrated beneficial properties as flame retardants in materials and products such as foam-filled furniture. However, they also have important negative properties. They are toxic. They are bioaccumulative in animals and in the general environment and they have even been found, as has been said already, in human breast milk. Action on these substances in the opinion of many Members of this Parliament has been long delayed due to the slow progress of the risk assessments undertaken under the existing substance regulations of 1993. The final results and publications of the risk assessments of certain of these substances are still awaited. I hope the Commission notes that. The general conclusions are clear. These substances which have a potential for harm to the environment must be strictly controlled. One cannot ignore however their very real and positive benefits in terms of reducing substantially the annual human death toll due to accidental fires. Accordingly, I would welcome the report. I give my support to the amendments to that report which enable the continued use of the most stable isomer, that is decaBDE, until such time as this substance has a complete risk assessment and its real uses and risks are assessed and we have some conclusions on it. I commend the report to the House. – Mr President, I agree with everyone who has spoken tonight. This is a substantial and very important proposal. When fully implemented it will bring about a transformation in the culture of recycling in many Member States. The rapporteur can be truly proud of his work and he is to be congratulated on it. The requirements in these two proposals: firstly, to ensure recycling of substantial quantities of waste electronic and electrical goods, and, secondly, to ensure substantial reductions in the amount of hazardous substances in these products will be technically and financially very difficult to achieve for many people. Patience must be shown with some Member States that are starting from scratch and have very little infrastructure for recycling. In particular we cannot expect the new accession states to achieve easily or quickly the high levels of recycling of these products that already exist in some more advanced Member States. We can be pleased that individual consumers can expect to return their waste appliances free of charge, and that the primary responsibility for collection and disposal of waste electrical and electronic goods will be with the producer. However, we may see the unfortunate situation of local authorities – and consequently local taxpayers – dealing with orphan and some historic waste. In that situation, the governments that have agreed to this proposal have a responsibility to support financially this necessary work. Despite all the difficulties that I foresee in implementing this proposal in parts of the Union, we are taking a very important step tonight and tomorrow when we vote on it – it brings us all a very practical step forward towards a sustainable future for the European economy and a sustainable future for all. – Madam President, I welcome this proposal. It is time that we did something on detergents as there is a major problem associated with detergents and their impact upon water quality across Europe. Throughout our water systems, our great rivers and even down to the sea we see the effects of these substances being pumped into the environment, on a daily basis. I therefore welcome the proposals extending the testing on biodegradability, making biodegradability regulations stricter generally and requiring clearer labelling and information. All of this is good, as it simplifies and clarifies the administrative procedures in the proposal. Indeed, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs have worked well together to come up with a package that is worthy of the support of this House. I would ask one question, however. Has enough been done, in particular with regard to the issue of phosphates? Phosphates are the key question buried inside this proposal. Phosphates are the trigger and often the clear cause of eutrification in many different waters across the European Union. We know that detergents are a major source of phosphates. Taking phosphates out of detergents would probably bring down the level of phosphates in our rivers, lakes and oceans to the point where we would not have to be concerned about the problem of eutrification again. This proposal does not fully address that question. We may have to revisit it in future. We cannot leave it for another day. If we do, we will see that as a consequence of development in eastern and central Europe, there will be a continuing problem of eutrification caused by phosphates in rivers across the whole of the Union. If there is a problem with this proposal as it stands, we have not done enough on phosphates. We must act on that issue. – Mr President, I will just simply say first as a British Member, that I would endorse what Mrs Jackson said. Only the people in this room really know just how much work both the rapporteurs did to reach this final position and to get these two reports as proposals to this Parliament for a final vote. We are your peers and we know how much hard work you did and we congratulate you both on that work. It has been a very long time and this is one of the most difficult reports I have seen in twelve years in Parliament. Finally though, despite all the difficulties and even the final conciliation, we have a workable and practical proposal. It is not going to be easy. It is going, in fact, to be extremely hard with regard to some of the requirements, but it strikes a satisfactory balance between the protection of the environment on the one hand and society's need for a reliable and secure source of power at an affordable price, which is something we cannot ignore. Changes are going to have to take place to meet the requirements of this proposal. The power industry will undoubtedly be required to replace some old plant, hopefully by some more modern sources of power generation. There is going to be a substantial reduction in sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions which are the main causes of acid rain and ground-level ozone with a consequent improvement in the environmental conditions for human health. One possible side effect may be that as the general efficiency of power plant operation improves, we will see an overall reduction in carbon dioxide in comparison to the energy generated. That would be a helpful and useful side effect of this legislation. It will not be easy to put all these measures into place. There is a long time scale. That is acceptable and understandable in these circumstances, so on behalf of the Socialist Group, I welcome these proposals and we will give them our support in the vote tomorrow. – Mr President, I thank the Swedish representative for his reply but it does not satisfy my enquiry. He is quite right to say that certain types of consular services are provided in Mecca during the Hajj by the UK Government for British Muslims. However, those consular services are not available to Muslims from other EU Member States who would be there under the same terms and conditions operated by the Saudi authorities as UK Muslims. It seems a little bizarre that whilst we are supposed to have equal representation and treatment for all EU citizens, in circumstances like the one I have described, there is unequal treatment and unequal representation for EU citizens. Could the Swedish minister please assure us that he will take up this matter and examine circumstances in which this kind of unequal treatment takes place, to ensure that regardless of religion or nationality people receive the same treatment from consular services by individual Member States? – Mr President, I thank the rapporteur for the work she has done, and the cooperation she has had with other rapporteurs has been very helpful. This is an interesting issue. These substances are dangerous, they are toxic. But they also have an extremely useful and important role in that they save lives in their role as fire-retardants. There is absolutely no question about that fact. We have to very carefully consider how we deal with these substances. It is quite clear that penta and probably octa are really not necessary and that the risks they pose to the environment and human health do not justify their continued use as flame-retardants. But I urge Parliament to pause for a moment and think seriously about what alternatives there are to these very useful flame retardants. Can we still use deca in a sensible and serious way? Will the risk assessments finally rule out its use? We simply do not know because we have not had the risk assessments. The Commission has to press Member States to come forward with them as quickly as possible. We want this issue resolved. We want to know exactly what to do with these substances. For the moment it is an open question. I hope that we use our intelligence in this question and realise the importance of these substances in protecting human life as flame-retardants. . – Mr President, could I first join with some of my other colleagues in thanking the rapporteur for the work that he has done this year. As someone who was responsible for the budget on behalf of the Committee on Environment for the first time, I found him very helpful and very considerate of the points I made – not agreeing with everything but nevertheless being very fair-minded. I would also like to welcome the decisions taken by the Council and the Commission. The decision with regard to the money for Kosovo is helpful and their other agreements have, generally speaking, made the Committee on the Environment relatively happy. I am glad Mrs Schreyer mentioned earlier the additional monies for the Veterinary Office which are particularly important if we want them to deal with the problems that have arisen because of the BSE crisis, the dioxin crisis in Belgium and of course the continued work in Portugal. That money is necessary and we are very pleased that you agreed to it. In the area of health, we have had some very small and moderate improvements. The budget headings for the Committee on the Environment generally concern very small amounts but they have enabled us to start the preparatory research that will help us develop the issue of health competence under the Amsterdam Treaty. The sum involved is small but it is important. As regards consumers, there we are pleased to see that the agreement reached on the Whitehead report and the conciliation on the Whitehead report last year has been honoured and the money will come through. We are looking forward to that bringing general benefits in the coming year. As regards the area of the environment, the most important outstanding measure of course is the Lienemann report and the conciliation on LIFE and we are optimistic that we will get a reasonable result there. I would however make one final plea. The question of the money for the drugs agency is urgent now that we will approve the orphan drugs regulation in February. Something must be done quickly. – On the basis of the discussions on the last two questions and the fact we are approving the research programme tomorrow – hopefully – I would like to ask the Commissioner a direct question. It is quite clear that the Group on Ethics is going to be increasingly important, so are you not a little concerned that there is no clear work plan for it? Are you not a little concerned that there is no chairman at the moment? And can you guarantee us personally, that you are going to ensure that the questions that myself and other colleagues wanted to ask you today about the work of this group and the appointment of a new chairman are going to be answered quickly and correctly, in an open and transparent way? I hope that you can give us some quick and clear promises about this because we are very concerned that this is done quickly. – Mr President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment on this year’s budget, I want to acknowledge the difficult framework in which it has been constructed and the serious pressures upon all of us. I would like to pay tribute to the work done by the rapporteur, Mrs Haug, in trying to resolve some very difficult questions this year because of the immense pressures that have been brought to bear upon the budget at a very late stage. We must have the courage of our convictions and insist upon finding the very modest finance needed to fulfil our key objectives. In that regard, I would draw the Commission’s and the House’s attention to the following issues. The first is the decision by the Committee on Budgets to place into reserve the monies agreed for the Life programme. This was an astonishing decision and left many of us feeling that this whole very important programme had simply become a football in a game between the Budgets Committee and the Commission. It demonstrated that those bodies did not recognise the importance of this programme to the environment. We need to reverse that decision in the vote this week in the House and make those funds immediately available, because there is an enormous demand for their utilisation. The treatment by the Budgets Committee of several agencies has been proven to be unfair and unjust this year and in past years, in particular the refusal to increase monies to the Drugs Agency. If it is supported by the House this week, it will put a stop to the recently begun programme for the approval of orphan drugs for rare diseases. Unless that funding is restored in a vote this week in Parliament, I would anticipate a very serious situation arising and considerable distress to many people in Europe. A similar injustice has been done to the Environment Agency, given its increased workload as a result of enlargement. In future years a more thoughtful, consistent and sensitive approach to the financial needs of the agencies will be needed and I hope the approach of treating them all the same, which has prevailed in previous years, will now be dropped. They are the main objectives of the Environment Committee. They can be achieved with an absolutely minuscule amount of finance. It is the duty of the House to give those points their support in the vote this week, to demonstrate its continued commitment to protecting the environment and improving public health. – Mr President, unusually tonight I am not speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group, largely because I have some particularly strong views about this directive. I do believe that Mr Blokland has produced the wrong report at the wrong time for the wrong reasons. It is not so long ago that we addressed this issue and produced a set of rules that were appropriate to the situation, and which Mr Blokland was seen to be happy with at the time and did not complain about. Given a task to do, Mr Blokland has produced a new and revised report that has certainly exceeded anything that we have done before. We cannot say that it is all wrong. Indeed there are many sensible proposals put forward in areas where the technology makes it possible to advance. But quite frankly we cannot expect, having already given industry one set of rules to implement only a year or two ago, to hand them a completely new set of rules so quickly. We have to expect that it will take time to implement this report. Mr Blokland has also exceeded in many ways the brief he was given. In particular, the scope of this proposal goes far further than previous directives and brings into its legislative fold a great many processes which require separate legislation, and need to be separately regulated because they are inherently different from the simple process of combustion. If one is being kind to this directive one could describe it as being good in parts, like the curate's egg. Unfortunately, this is going to give environment policy a bad name. We should not be constantly re-regulating incinerators. We should be seeking ways to avoid incineration in the first place. Parliament's objective in waste management strategy is not to constantly tighten rules on existing incinerating plant, it is to change the role of waste management, to change the type of waste management that we do. We would be much better concentrating our efforts in the next few years on recycling, re-use and other methods of reducing the waste heap. If we do not, we will very soon find ourselves back with this problem again. – Madam President, I am last but not least and I hope I shall not take three minutes. On behalf of the Socialist Group, I would welcome the results of the conciliation. The decision to move towards low sulphur diesel across the Union should mean an end to the noisy, smelly, expensive and rather larger diesel engines and other off-road vehicles that disturb our air quality, the peace of our environment and communities. We recognise the importance of taking into account the possible economic and social consequences of this change, in particular for the agricultural industry, and therefore welcome the sensible transition periods given and the encouragement of appropriate tax incentives. We hope this will encourage bringing about change in a painless way. We also support the need for an on-going review of the situation to ensure progress does not give rise to social or economic problems. Therefore, on behalf of the Socialists, I would recommend the report to the House and thank the rapporteur for all the work she has done, as well as all the other people who have been involved in this long process. We hope that we will now see some genuine results from our endeavours. – Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group I would welcome this report and the work done in particular by the rapporteur and all the others concerned to reach a first reading agreement and therefore hasten the implementation of this proposal. Firstly with regard to cement, we have made substantial progress. The problem has been recognised and identified across the whole of Europe. Cement is a major cause of eczema for all workers in occupations involving the regular use of cement. Various experiences and various construction projects utilising cement that has been ameliorated with ferrous sulphate have demonstrated that the sensible use of this cement makes a very substantial reduction in the number of incidents of eczema within the industry. It is clear that making this mandatory could bring considerable improvements for many workers across the whole of Europe. Whilst we have had to accept some compromises to reach a first reading agreement, we have reached a reasonable compromise, although we must continue to examine the problems associated with the use of cement in closed systems. In reality, I do not think I have ever seen a closed system myself in any factory anywhere where cement does not leak, squeeze or squirt out somewhere in the system and come into contact with workers on a fairly regular basis. We must continue to look at this issue. As regards nonylphenol ethoxylate, again we have made substantial progress – progress that I regret cannot result in an immediate implementation of complete controls on it. But the compromises we have reached are reasonable. Firstly, only where those uses are really inevitable, for example in the use of spermicides, have we allowed the continued use and we are still concerned to find appropriate and suitable alternatives; and secondly, where we have decided to end the use of these things, for example as a co-formulant in pesticides, we have given a reasonable phase-out time and reasonable opportunity for the industry to bring forward new formulations that are appropriate and efficacious for use without the use of nonylphenol ethoxylate, which is again a reasonable compromise. Altogether, we can all commend this report to the House tomorrow morning and consider it a job well done, congratulate the rapporteur and look forward to early implementation of this proposal and a substantial saving in costs and compensation towards industrial injuries caused by cement and probably towards human health caused by nonylphenol ethoxylate. – Mr President, I welcome this report as a very important first step in what is going to be a very important debate. The rapporteur has worked very hard to bring us together on this issue and I would commend the work he has done to the House. He really has tried very hard to get us to the situation where this House will give a great deal of support to his ideas tomorrow. We all know that there is widespread concern about PVC within our society. We have, however, to bear in mind that it is a cheap plastic made from salt and natural gas. Where there have been problems they have been where it has been pressed into service for uses for where it is not best suited, e.g. packaging or children's toys. Where it is best used, where its natural properties are best used and need not be modified, e.g. in construction products and in specialist products like blood bags, it is an extremely useful, very important plastic and very difficult to replace. We do, however, have a problem in terms of its disposal where harm to the environment can be caused by inappropriate disposal and we need to take sensible action with regard to that. Much of the Sacconi report I entirely endorse. I support the phase out of dangerous and unnecessary additives. I believe the voluntary recycling commitments must be reinforced and turned into legally binding agreements. But I believe that the proper route for disposal is incineration in a high temperature incinerator. Suggestions that it should go into a landfill are a serious mistake and a very bad error and I am very glad that Ms McKenna, speaking on behalf of the Green Group earlier tonight, agreed with me about that. This is the beginning of a very long debate before we reach the stage of legislation. It must be a wide-ranging and broad-based debate. It must reach conclusions that are satisfactory to the public, because of the concerns they have expressed, but also to the industrial needs of society. I welcome Mr Sacconi's report as the first step in the right direction. – Mr President, I certainly welcome this report and I gave it a lot of support in the Environment Committee. I creates a proper framework in which we can work in the long term to reduce emissions. The vast majority of the amendments I can support. There are one or two that went through that I have some doubts about, particularly Amendment No 7, which I cannot see as being environmental at all, or as contributing to the overall attempt to reduce the amount of ozone-depleting substances at ground level anywhere in the Union. I want to come to the issue which Mr Davies has addressed, namely, where we should start from. With what targets are we to start? Mr President, a series of quite practical and well-argued and debated figures were arrived at just before Christmas at Gothenburg under the UN/ECE protocol, and it seems to me that is the logical place to start. It would not to my mind be the right place to finish, but it certainly would be the right place to start and it is the reason why I was convinced when I was there in the debate in the Industry Committee, as none of my colleagues from the Environment Committee were, that it was the right place to start. It seems to me that the Commission figures are aspirational. Yes, we could go there – we should be trying to go there, but I do not think we should be starting there. We should be starting with the UN/ECE figures, with the Gothenburg protocol and revising them as is proposed by Mrs Myller in her report. . – Mr President, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy effectively does not have much supervision over large parts of the budget. However, over those lines that we do have supervision we express our concerns and have done so in the past. I am pleased that as a result of our concerns about the LIFE programme the monies that are dispensed through the LIFE programme, both within the Union and externally, are going to be examined by the Court of Auditors. I understand the Court of Auditors is looking at this budget line for this year and on that basis we would be happy, despite our reservations, to grant discharge or to recommend the granting of discharge. Regarding the other lines, we do not have many concerns about the consumer lines where we see that the work is going on quite effectively, but I would draw the attention of the House and the Commission to the health programme and the health budget lines. Although that programme is currently under review and is due to be reorganised, we felt when we examined it last year that there were a great number of small projects without a great deal of clarity or order to them. Whilst we expressed some concerns about this, we are prepared to support the idea of discharge on the basis that the new head of the DG for Health will investigate these issues and bring forward a report to the House. – Firstly, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur for the work that he and his staff did in producing what was a good report until we had that regrettable vote in committee which has unfortunately now produced a report which I personally cannot support. This debate on that report comes at a very opportune moment after American research companies announced that they had successfully cloned human embryos. It is quite clear that if we accept this report we will fall behind the rest of the world in the development of very important treatments for cancer, diabetes, Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. This debate does not impose any legal requirements upon Member States but if the messages we send out today are heard strongly across Europe, they will have serious implications for vital areas of medical research in the future. These proposals are restrictive and extreme. They do not reflect a sensible and balanced approach. If you look around Member States, for example the United Kingdom, we can see that a genuine lead has been taken to recognise the undoubted potential benefits of these technologies but also that there is the need for controls and proper licensing arrangements which reflect the very real ethical concerns. We should not, in my view, adopt these proposals as they stand because they are unrealistic, potentially damaging and will seriously harm medical research across the whole of the European Union. The announcement in the United States this week has quite clearly demonstrated the speed at which research is now moving and the need to move technology and regulation on at the same pace. If these proposals become EU policy we will see the clock being turned back rather than being speeded up to keep pace with important technological developments. – Mr President, I am very pleased to be here today for more than one reason because, looking around the room, perhaps I am one of the few people who was actually here when we first wrote the packaging directive. I feel a special responsibility to ensure that we do not forget that and ensure that this directive continues to develop in a positive way for the environment. I welcome this proposal but I am not sure whether the timing is particularly good, coming as it does from the Commission before we can fully assess the impact of enlargement. I think that we have to be sure that what we do to the directive on this occasion is a positive and sensible thing and we do not, for example, try to table ego-amendments rather than eco-amendments. Politicians always tend to want to change directives and demonstrate their power. What we have to do today is take a rather more limited approach than we took with the first packaging directives of many years ago. But I see this as a useful opportunity, if we can take that approach, to adjust the directive in the light of experience. We have learned that recycling is not in itself a good thing but only good when it is positive and beneficial to the environment. Therefore, many of the tools that we have gradually developed need further refinement, whether life-cycle analysis or some of the other tools. These will tell us the real value of the work that we are doing and that we are asking others to do. Simply raising the targets without any thoughtful consideration of them is not something that we should do on this occasion. Let us take the Commission targets, which are not bad targets at all – the Commission proposal is not a bad proposal at all – let us examine them carefully and let us refine them. Let us see if we can improve them. Perhaps minimum targets for each material is not a bad idea. There are some materials that do indeed need a lot more work on them, or if you look at the area of glass and metal perhaps less work. We need to think very carefully about this directive. We must ensure that it is acceptable not just to those countries that are already and fully implementing the packaging directive but also to those that will have to implement it in coming times. We must bear in mind, of course, the very different situation countries like Malta will find themselves in. Smaller countries with particularly difficult waste disposal problems cannot really be realistically expected to adhere to exactly the same levels of recycling that might be achievable in the Netherlands. We are also talking about Central and Eastern Europe and that is why I wonder whether we should not pause for a little thought before we push too far ahead with a radical revision of this proposal. Circumstances and conditions in those countries that will shortly be members of the European Union will dictate that we take a different approach to some of the legislation. In particular when it comes to packaging, there has to be some kind of uniform and level playing field across Europe, in which case we have to be realistic about what is achievable in central and eastern Europe in the foreseeable future. Finally, I would say that when we sit down today, I hope we will perhaps feel satisfied and happy and have a warm glow inside us, but also feel that we have done something not just for our egos but for the environment. – Mr President, first of all I must thank the Commissioner and the Chairman and other colleagues for their words of wisdom. They are very positive and clear commitments to do something about this very serious problem. But it is not just words we need, it is actions, it is deeds, and we cannot rely on Member States to do this alone. Even if representatives of the Council were here, which they do not appear to be, even if they were prepared to make statements, which they do not appear to be, we would not be able to leave them to do it on their own. We need some kind of watchdog to monitor and ensure the implementation of legislation. Sadly our own Environment Agency does not appear to be up to the job yet. We can but hope. So what solutions do we have? What can Parliamentarians do? Well, these three reports before Parliament today are a start. They name and shame. They call for fines. They make proposals for further improvement. But, they also make a point which we must take on board here in Parliament. They say essentially that bad legislation should never have been put on the statute book. And that is a lesson that we have to take to heart. Perhaps we have to start to think about doing less but better. We have talked about doing it but seemingly not done so yet. When we put better legislation on the agenda in future, it has to be respected. Because of the failure of Member States to put into place legislation, typically the PCBs and PCTs legislation, we now have the extremely serious problem of a long-term contamination of our food chain by a persistent toxic chemical. That toxic chemical is slowly but surely accumulating in the human food chain, reaching levels which are already beyond World Health Organisation levels in certain fatty substances, typically butter, and in some cases fatty fish, such as salmon. They are now creeping up the food chain to the point where our children are now starting to ingest amounts of these toxins that are beyond those that are recommended by the World Health Organisation. If we are not prepared to take serious action promptly in future we will see further problems of this kind affecting future generations. We owe it to those future generations to pursue this issue. – Madam President, like the previous two speakers I welcome this report and I praise the rapporteur for her work. The initial proposal to ban the use of the flame retardant pentaBDE was not considered by Parliament to be adequate, as closely related substances – octaBDE and decaBDE – were not included. Furthermore, Parliament was dissatisfied with the speed at which the risk assessment was being carried out, as this was delaying any real concrete decisions. No one underestimates the value and importance of these substances: they are very effective flame retardants and they save lives. However, they appear to have dangerous effects on the environment and public health and, therefore, we felt something had to be done. I am sure that Parliament is pleased that the original proposal is now developed and that octaBDe has also been banned. However, Parliament cannot be totally happy about the fate of decaBDE, which remains to be decided. Parliament would like a clear date for action on this. The fate of this remaining substance is still hanging in the balance. We need clear reassurance from the Council and the Commission – by way of an insertion of a paragraph in the text during conciliation – that prompt, immediate action will be taken when the results of the risk assessment become available, as promised, in June 2003. I hope the Commissioner will confirm that tonight. On this basis, the PSE Group can support this proposal, which will be put to the vote tomorrow morning. Mr President, many of us today have voted for the trade agreement with Pakistan in the belief that this is a sensible and essential step forward to progress the issue of human rights and further democratisation of Pakistan. It may at first seem a little peculiar to see who is voting on the one hand for the trade agreement while at the same time supporting the resolution on the issue of human rights in Pakistan. I do not believe there is a contradiction. The votes today are quite sensible and straightforward. We have pushed forward the issue of developing economic and trade links with Pakistan. We have pushed forward the issue of developing Pakistan's economy which, I believe, was an important step in ensuring that we will see further democratisation in Pakistan, further work towards the development of human rights, and fulfilment of the demands made in our second resolution which I was happy to support. It is a good day for Pakistan, for Kashmir, and for the Indian subcontinent and I am very pleased to have been here today. Mr President, first, we should all congratulate Mr Schnellhardt on his work on these reports. It has been something of a marathon and a lot of hard work, but he has done a very good job. We now have a package of measures that is going to ensure the health and safety of the European public and the quality and safety of the European meat supply for the foreseeable future. These measures, when put in place, are ones in which we can have confidence. Some of the issues have been more difficult than others. We all recognise that the system should not be overburdened with too much bureaucracy, and we have acknowledged the need – certainly in some sectors – for self-inspection or inspection with a light touch. In the areas of poultry and rabbit production, there is clearly a demonstrable need for that and there is no serious problem of public health. However, there is a need for an independent inspectorate to keep a close eye on certain sectors, such as the work in abattoirs and slaughterhouses across Europe, where there is a lot of time pressure and pressure to perform and where there is evidence to suggest a potential public health risk – most notably in the red-meat sector. Whilst I do not know anyone who eats raw rabbit or raw poultry, I know many people – some are Members of the European Parliament – who eat red meat that is either raw or close to raw. Consequently, there is a greater and more serious health risk in that sector than in meats that are cooked before being consumed by the public. For that reason, I consider the compromise arrived at by the Council – regarding the possible extension of self-inspection to areas such as pork and veal – to be a dangerous one. I feel it is one that we should not be stepping into at this moment: it crosses the species barrier and it opens up the possibility of self-inspection in the red-meat sector in the future. I cannot support that. All of us realise the importance of these public health measures: we need only recall the terrible food poisoning incident that took place in Scotland owing to the contamination of red meat only a few years ago. We have got to protect public health. Madam President, I rise to ask you if you will join with me in expressing your concern to the Turkish judicial authorities about the delays in bringing to trial those persons involved in the affray that took place in Galatasaray, Turkey on the occasion of a football match with Leeds United in April 2000. This terrible event led to the murders of my constituents Christopher Loftus and Kevin Speight. A local man, Ali Umit Demir, has now been convicted of these murders. However, he has appealed against the original sentence, and now, along with others involved in the original affray, is awaiting the start of a retrial. The preliminary retrial hearing has now been delayed twice, once in July and again in September of this year. The third date for the hearing has now been arranged for 11 December 2003. While I am very grateful for the interest, concern and assistance shown in this matter by the Turkish ambassador to the EU, Mr Oguz Demiralp, I would welcome the support of the President of Parliament in sending a letter to the Turkish judicial authorities seeking assurances that the legal proceedings will go ahead with no further delay. I am sure the President understands the distress the families of the murdered men are experiencing, caused by the lengthy and drawn-out proceedings for the retrial, which have only added to their original grief over this matter. .  Mr President, first of all I apologise for being breathless. The brevity of colleagues today has brought this debate forward slightly to the point where I was not quite expecting to be called to speak so early. Nevertheless, perhaps we can finish before the dinner break. I congratulate Mr Goodwill, who has written a good report and taken on board many of the comments and remarks made by colleagues. We are moving towards a document which will carry to the Council many of the points that we have raised and will be a sound basis for further work in the next Parliament. As a Geordie to a Yorkshire man, I have to say, 'Th'as done good, lad'. That being said, there are still a number of issues that need to be resolved. I hope we can get unity in this House for the change of legal base to a double legal base. It makes sense. In many respects this directive has two purposes, both to regulate the industrial market and also to protect the environment. We are trying to protect the environment, to remove from use, gradually and steadily, fluorinated gases, or Fgases as they are called. Useful though they have been to replace CFCs, HFCs themselves present problems, particularly with their global warming potential, and we have a responsibility to gradually reduce their use, but in a way that is logical, not too expensive, and where there are proven and viable alternatives. Our biggest step forward and our biggest technological push is unquestionably the replacement of HFCs in car air conditioning systems. These systems are produced in their millions, their leakability is notorious – I know of colleagues at home who have had to have their air conditioning systems refilled two, three or four times. I do not accept that the solution is simply to reduce the number of leaks. The solution is to move to a different kind of gas that does not present the problems that HFCs clearly do in that sector. As regards uses in other areas, there are some key and essential uses and we want to examine them carefully before we move forward with an amendment that originated with me – Amendment No 89 – which asks for an orderly phase-out over a period of time after this directive is brought into force. I hope the Commission can agree to that amendment. It gives it flexibility and a task to perform, but in a steady, logical way for which it will no doubt come back to this House for approval. We will not immediately be looking to remove HFCs from fire-fighting uses, where they are clearly very useful and the alternatives are, in my opinion, not yet proven. We will not want to remove the ban from refrigerators, where there are certain medical uses which are essential. The motto with this proposal is 'forward, but with a degree of prudence'. – Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I welcome and support this proposal. It is a step forward that 44 new substances recognised as CMRs have been added to the list of banned substances and are going to be removed from products and other uses within the Union. It is certainly a step forward in the protection of human health. The question of cosmetics now appears to have been resolved and we can express ourselves satisfied with that agreement. Again, that is a significant step forward for the health of cosmetics users. As regards the question of chemicals in products, I accept the view expressed in Parliament's report that we should start to look very closely at this issue. However, I agree with the Commission that this issue has much wider implications than simply controlling 44 chemicals in our existing proposal and their potential dangers. It is now clear that this issue is going to be addressed in the new forthcoming chemicals policy. We can therefore express ourselves satisfied that we have made good progress on this proposal and we can look to pick up the issue of chemicals in products, and a range of other issues, when we address the chemicals policy proposal that we understand the Commission will be publishing for wider consultation on 7 May. I expect we can start work on that in the autumn of this year. Therefore, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I commend this proposal and its results to the House and look forward to continuing our constructive dialogue and work with the Commission. – Mr President, on behalf of the PSE Group I welcome this proposal and many of the amendments tabled by colleagues, and those tabled by the rapporteur who has already worked very hard to find a sensible way forward on this. The proposal is indeed needed to set EU-wide minimum standards on the use of human tissues and cells. There is a growing and cross-border trade in human tissues and cells across Europe for research in laboratories and clinics and for the production of medical and pharmaceutical products. We now need to bring forward a European-wide framework in which to control this. It is currently controlled only by a patchwork of national laws. But with this increasing trade we need basic standards to guarantee human health, and safety standards on the issues of donation, procurement, compensation and consent. We need to establish a clear European-wide framework in which the industry can operate and in which people can be confident and public safety ensured. We can guard against profit-driven markets that might exploit the vulnerable individual and the possible transmission of disease or infection. We need to operate on a not-for-profit principle and apply that to all donations in all Member States across the whole of the European Union. There is a danger that some people, driven by financial necessity, might perhaps be persuaded to donate cells, either here within the European Union or perhaps in the developing world, for financial gain. We must find a way to stop that. We must get the balance right. We want to rule out the sale of human tissues for cash, but leave the door open for limited financial compensation for the donor. It is quite clear to me that if you need two weeks off work for a bone marrow transplant it is not unreasonable for some form of payment to be made to your employer. These new rules will set the necessary minimum safety criteria for the use of tissues and cells across Europe. Minimum standards on donation and compensation based on a not-for-profit system are essential. We should also have clear rules on the issue of stem cell research, including embryonic stem cells but excluding cloning for human reproduction. If we can establish these minimum standards of donor consent, we will protect the vulnerable individuals who could be persuaded into donating cells under pressure. However, I cannot entirely support all the amendments tabled by some of my colleagues. Those amendments seeking, for example, to ban or restrict the use of embryonic stem cells totally are doing the European public no favours. They are not protecting human health, nor are they protecting the vulnerable. I wish that MEPs and pressure groups that argue the need so strongly to defend ethical principles were equally vocal in their defence of the sick and the vulnerable, like my young constituent Zain Hashmi, who this week was able with his parents to get permission to utilise these new technologies to protect his life and safeguard his future. Without these kinds of new technologies, the future for young men like that is extremely bleak. I sincerely hope that we can take this proposal forward with sensible steps, bearing in mind the key issues of protecting human health and safety and protecting the public and vulnerable individuals from exploitation. I commend the report to the House, but not all of the amendments. Madam President, we have to recognise that this is another step in the process of making sure that, when we deal with this new technology, it works for the benefit of human beings and not against them. We have seen already other pieces of legislation come before this House, for one of which I was the rapporteur, which were part of the jigsaw creating the total picture of control over genetically modified organisms. With this particular piece of legislation we have to recognise a number of things. The main objective of this legislation and the agreements around it is to give people the right to make a genuine choice about GM products. We have listened to the concerns of people across Europe calling for the right to make an informed choice about GM food. We are trying to put in place a labelling and information scheme that makes the choice a reality. I have some sympathy with the remarks made by Mr Maaten about the imperfections of this scheme; nevertheless we have to work within the boundaries of what is scientifically provable and practically possible to implement. We live in an imperfect world, and the use of thresholds reflects the reality. Organic regulations allow for the presence of up to 5% non-organic ingredients. In practical terms that means that an organic readymeal could contain minor ingredients like herbs and spices which are not readily available in organic form. We do not label very low levels of residues of pesticides or chemical contaminates in foodstuffs although we know they are present. In any labelling regime there are bound to be imperfections. There has to be a cut-off point where the practical and the scientific reality cuts in. That is the best we can do with the science we have. One of the ingredients in the pizza that you might eat tonight might be a salami sausage but not every constituent ingredient of that sausage will appear on the pizza-box label. Our job is to make the best deal that science allows. Our priority has to be to give the consumer real choice. – First of all, Mr President, can I thank the Commissioner for that very useful response. Clearly the Commission has given some consideration to this problem and I am pleased that these reports which have been produced so far have looked carefully at the issue. But I would like to point out that the concern with depleted uranium weapons is about the way in which they are used. This uranium becomes air-borne, is inhaled and could now be effectively carried by members of the population in Kosovo with rather more long-term effects than it has been possible to establish so far. This seems to be the pattern of events that has emerged after the use of depleted uranium weapons in the Gulf war. I would therefore ask the Commission if it would wish to consider continuation of monitoring and for what length of time they might consider monitoring in future to see the long-term effects, not just of depleted uranium weapons but of some of the other effects on the environment that we do know have occurred at least in a localised way within Kosovo? How long will you continue to monitor the effects of these weapons? – I thank you, Commissioner, for that reply. It is quite clear that you have identified the situation and are taking some action. However, could you not take action more rapidly? This problem was brought to my attention by a constituent in the city of Leeds who has a small company selling DVDs – the kind of materials you mentioned – and employs 31 people. A company based in the Channel Islands, which operates a lot of its activities quite legitimately from the UK mainland, is seriously threatening his business. This is a serious problem. By setting up a task force you have recognised that it is a serious problem across the Union. Given how long this has been going on – you mentioned the directive going back to 1983 – how long will it be before your task force produces proposals for action? Whilst I accept that Member States may have an interim option to adopt measures which would save companies from this unfair competition, please could you tell us when you are going to save everybody in the Union from it and take some action through the task force? . With our vote today, we are trying to give people the right to make a genuine choice about GM products. We have listened to the concerns of people calling for the right to make an informed choice about GM food and we are trying to put in place a labelling and information scheme which makes that choice a reality. But we have to work within the boundaries of what is scientifically provable and in practical terms possible to implement. We live in an imperfect world and the use of thresholds reflects that reality. In all labelling regimes there is a cut-off point born of the practical and scientific reality that it's the best we can do with the science we've got. Organic regulations allow for the presence of up to 5% non-organic ingredients. Whilst we don't label very low levels of residues of pesticides or chemical contaminates in foodstuffs, we know they are present. We welcome co-existence rules, which, by allowing GM crops to be grown alongside conventional crops, are another step towards making real consumer choice a reality. –  – Mr President, on behalf of the Environment Committee, I would like to add a few final words before the Commissioner sums up. We have watched with interest the development of the budgetary process so far and we thank the two rapporteurs who have produced a good report along the right lines. But I want to emphasise some issues and I hope Mrs Schreyer will take them up and endeavour to ensure that they are pushed through the Commission. First, we have long called upon the Commission to do more with regard to greening the budget. The area of agriculture remains largely untouched and much more work needs to be done on greening the Structural Funds and other areas of the Commission's activity. We would look for a fresh initiative from the Commission on this. Make sure the money is properly spent in a sustainable way. With regard to the spending of money external to the Union, particularly in Eastern and Central Europe, we would hope that the Commission will focus its efforts, particularly through the Phare Programme and other projects guaranteeing the implementation and enforcement of European Union legislation. These countries have signed up to the  and we expect them to satisfy its requirements before they enter the Union. We cannot compromise on environmental standards in those areas. I hope that monies will be directed towards ensuring that. As regards public health, an area of competence that was enlarged during the Amsterdam Treaty and is currently undergoing reform, we would hope that the outcome of that reform will be an enlarged programme on public health issues and that the Commission will accept that and find the necessary funding – which inevitably will mean more than they are spending now. Whilst the legal justification for action in the area of public health is clear, it seems to me that there is still a lack of clarity with regard to the legal basis for action by the Commission in some other areas. I would ask the Commission to renew its efforts to clarify the legal basis for some areas of action in the field of the environment. There are two other important issues which I want to bring to the attention of the Commission. First, there is an ongoing confusion about the funding of certain NGOs and the monies provided by the Commission for their funding. Please get this sorted out. Finally, we have long argued in this Parliament about the problem of the subsidy on tobacco production in southern Europe and the other issues related to tobacco production. We need a new initiative from the Commission on this. It is time to break the deadlock. The continued spending of money in that way is unacceptable. I hope the Commission has heard what we say. – Mr President, like so many others here today, I believe this is a good measure. This is a useful measure and it is one which we all need. Most of the technical issues have been resolved. There are some details to be finalised but most of the technical issues have been resolved. We have arrived at the final question. In the first reading debate it was only the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee which asked this question and it was only myself as the draftsman of the opinion of that committee who posed that question in Parliament. That is quite simply: Who pays? The Council common position reached a reasonable compromise in that the manufacturers should pay a significant part of the cost, not all of it as Mr Bowis has mistakenly said. In fact perhaps as little, the lawyers tell us, as 20% or one-fifth of the cost. That is not unreasonable. If you look at the UK consumer for example, who buys a Rover, as Mr Lange has indicated or for that matter any other make of car in the UK and who has for years been paying excessive prices for those cars, over and above comparable prices in other parts of Europe, why should they pay? They have paid already. Why should the very same people as taxpayers or as future car buyers, pay again to dispose of the vehicle that the manufacturer has made the profit from? I cannot accept that. There are amendments here today that are proposing that should be the case. I cannot accept it and I will not vote for it. The responsibility for these cars lies with the manufacturer. It is the manufacturer who has to provide the infrastructure and provide a reasonable part of the cost of disposal. The common position does not preclude the possibility of contributions being made by government. The common position is a reasonable compromise. Some of the amendments today are totally unreasonable in that they take away completely the responsibility from the car manufacturer of paying a little if any of the cost of disposal of cars on the road. I cannot accept that and on behalf of the taxpayers and the consumers of Europe I am voting against those amendments. Madam President, like everyone else, I too can endorse the package that has been assembled as a compromise. I thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this. The process for reaching a compromise has been very useful and speedy. However, like so many others, I endorse it with some reservations. Over the last few years we have seen, at least in Western Europe, the levels of phosphate in drinking water fall by between 50% and 80%. It has dropped steadily since the 1980s. One of the biggest reasons for that has been the control of detergents. Now we are opting for even tougher laws, I hope. We are going to see them applied over a wider area, from Limerick – which Mrs Doyle knows very well – to new places such as Latvia, Nicosia and other parts of Central and Eastern Europe. We can expect that all the rivers that drain into the Baltic and the North Sea will become cleaner. There will be far fewer bubbles in the rivers of Europe than Europeans have in their baths. These new measures, in terms of labelling of detergents and ensuring that they break down into safe components when they are discharged in the water, are not quite enough. This issue could quite simply be resolved and in many ways improved by the removal of phosphates from our laundry wash. This is something that we have not managed to do in this proposal. I believe that it is something that Parliament would like to see happen and something which we feel the Commission still has to address. Something not mentioned by other colleagues is the continued use of animal tests to assess detergents. The practice cannot be accepted for much longer. The Commission must set out a clear timescale for the development of replacement tests. It is long overdue. The Commission appears to have missed its chance yet again. Nevertheless I, like everyone else, will support the compromise tomorrow. – Mr President, I welcome this proposal. It is long overdue. Certainly the amendments to it by my colleagues Mr de Roo and Mr Lange are moving in the right direction. Since the first publication of this directive back in 1997 the manufacturers have moved to meet the Commission standards. I understand the desire of my colleague, Mr de Roo, to take the standards further. However, I have to sound a note of caution. Firstly, tyre standards are not the only problem. The nature of the road surface is just as important and in particular circumstances like noise hotspots in urban areas perhaps more important than trying to change the tyre standards. In many cases a better solution is to change the road surface and not the tyre standards. Secondly – and in my opinion of paramount importance – is the need to balance the problem of tyre noise and tyre safety. Whilst we are tonight seeking to adopt new tyre standards to reduce tyre noise we are not making any progress at all on tyre standards for the grip or adhesion of tyres on the road. Despite good and serious proposals being put on the table some considerable time ago by the UK, they have not yet been agreed or seriously considered. Our failure to agree tyre safety standards creates an unacceptable level of uncertainty with regard to this vital question. For that reason I am particularly concerned about the potential effects of Amendments Nos 3 and 4 and their impact upon tyre safety, especially for vehicles such as buses and trucks. In the circumstances I feel bound to say that I personally cannot give my support to Mr de Roo's Amendments Nos 3 and 4. I suggest to him that they are premature and I would ask the Commission to reject them. . Britain has made phenomenal strides in recycling over the last ten years, but most of that has come from the business cycle, now we have to move to the domestic waste stream. Householders will move towards separating glass, paper and plastic from general rubbish, and business will have to work with local councils to fund new equipment and set up new installations to deal with the flow of materials. A realistic timetable for implementation is five years, any attempt to compress that time will result in spiralling costs. A 2007 target date will cost an extra £143 million, bringing the costs of meeting the new targets from £397 up to £540 million over a five-year period. That means bottle banks, trucks for doorstep collections and building new waste transfer, storage and handling stations, all of which takes time and money. These EU packaging rules require a step change in recycling activity from British business, consumers and local councils. Introduction of the necessary changes in an efficient and cost-effective way needs a little more time. For these reasons we have abstained on those amendments seeking to advance the compliance date beyond 2008. – Mr President, this is one of the most important documents we will be debating in the field of the environment in this parliamentary cycle. Given its enhanced legal status, this document will be of greater significance than any of the other environmental action plans I have seen going through Parliament in the last 10 or so years. I am, therefore, concerned at the speed with which it has been considered by Parliament, driven at least in part by an ambitious presidency that will be here today and gone tomorrow. Mrs Myller is in no way to be criticised as she has striven very hard to begin the discussion on the substance of this debate very early on, but that has not stopped some of her colleagues from coming forward with a long last-minute shopping list of demands stretching far into the future. However, we should not despair. The proposals are still there at the centre of the document in the amendments. The Commission can still rescue it at second reading. The rapporteur will have the chance of getting a core of sensible amendments together at second reading that will have the support of the clear majority of Members of this House. I, like many others tomorrow, will vote for this report and the bulk of the amendments, knowing that by going forward to the second reading we are taking steps in the long process of developing an environment policy for the European Union which will outlast all the presidencies and all the ministers that this Parliament will see, and which will probably also outlast most of the Members of this House. In that sense, we all have to recognise how small a part we play in the bigger overall process. – I should like to thank Mr Byrne for his very comprehensive and thoughtful reply. This is an important issue, which is affecting more and more people. It is a chronic health issue and has considerable effects on the quality of life of those who acquire this disease. There is increasing evidence – though I agree, for the moment at least, with Commissioner Byrne that it is not conclusive – that there is a link between the presence of these bacteria in pasteurised milk and the incidence of Crohn's disease. I would ask the Commission to consider all the evidence, when the studies are completed, and perhaps hold a seminar or a wider discussion on what measures might be taken, as this is a disease which is increasingly of concern and it is spreading. The most obvious step would be for the Commission to extend the period of pasteurisation from 15 seconds at the appropriate temperature to 25 seconds. This may be the most simple and effective method. I wonder whether the Commission would agree that those steps might be taken at the end of the studies? Mr President, this is an important report and it must be approved and brought into law across Europe as quickly as possible. For that reason I can confirm that, although the Socialists did not sign the compromise package of amendments, we will support them as we favour most of them and do not wish to hinder bringing them into law. We urgently need this legislation on the quality and safety of tissues and cells across Europe. This is a growing sector, with many new opportunities for the relief of pain and suffering and we do not want to stop anyone taking advantage of it. Many of the diseases and ailments from which people are currently suffering can be cured by various therapies that can be derived from this sector. It is important that, whilst human need is met, standards of health and safety and quality be maintained. Ethical standards on donation, confidentiality, freedom of choice and other issues of concern to individual Member States need to be respected and addressed. I am glad the Commission has recognised that in terms of the amendments it has accepted from Parliament. New technologies, such as embryo stem cell research, cannot be ruled out as sources of future therapies for either medical or ethical reasons. We have gone as far as we can to satisfy those people with specific ethical concerns on those issues and with regard to other new technologies. We must recognise that our primary duty here today is to ensure the quality and safety of tissues and cells that are going to be used for the relief of human suffering, as they move around the single market to various destinations. That is our duty: to give the people of Europe common choice, common opportunities and common relief from many of the diseases and ailments from which they currently suffer. Mr President, I wish to begin, like everyone else, by thanking the rapporteur for his report. He has done a good job over a relatively short period of time. This is a much-needed report and, for obvious reasons, the accidents in Romania and Spain, but also other incidents that have taken place around the Union over time, have demonstrated quite clearly that this kind of material poses a real danger to human health and to the environment if it is mismanaged. This proposal deals with those environmental industrial problems. Many of us were somewhat surprised by the number of amendments initially tabled on the proposal, but in many ways that simply reflects the importance and the seriousness of the nature of this proposal. Sadly, we in the UK have long been aware of the dangers of mining waste since the terrible disaster of Aberfan in 1966 and the terrible deaths that occurred there. Consequently, our national legislation has been particularly strict and strong with regard to mining waste. However, there were parts of this new legislation that were new, innovative and worthy of adoption. There were some, though – particularly the extension of the scope to inert waste – which I felt were misguided. Nevertheless, I felt that the need for a registry of closed sites and previously occupied new sites was particularly important if we were really to establish the full extent of the problem across Europe. In the end, we have a good result. I commend the proposal to the House. It will fit neatly alongside the complementary legislation – IPPC, Seveso, and landfill – and make a positive contribution to the protection of the environment, human health and sustainable development. Mr President, it is quite opportune that I am the last speaker, as I want to add a note of optimism to the debate, which until now has been rather gloomy. I appreciate that these are challenging times for the textile industry. I appreciate too that we are running into a new era where import controls will be different and a new sector will be joining our textile industry. But, to inject a note of optimism, just as I said in the debate in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, one has only to look at the jackets and suits we are all wearing and ask where they were made. I will tell you where they were made: in Europe. This jacket that I am wearing was made by Crombie, a local textile firm in my town in England; it is a good, English suit. I do not know where the cloth came from, but it was the skills of British workers and those of the textile industry in Europe that took a low-quality commodity product and transformed it into a high-quality, high-value product – that is the future for the textile industry. Different parts of the textile industry will find different routes, some more technical than others, some craft-related; some will go in other directions. That is the future for our industry. This should be the message going out to the industry from the Commission White Paper. We must be sure that when the Commission acts, our textile and clothing sector – much of it being made up of small companies – is able to invest in new technology and production techniques. It must be able to find ways to add value to the basic products that we may be importing from elsewhere. We must also – and this is a point which has not been previously mentioned – protect our industry from counterfeiting. This has become increasingly vital. Counterfeiting is a very serious issue for high-value, quality products, and is an issue we must address. I see no reference to this at all in the White Paper. Finally, if we get it right for the textile industry, we can learn some very important lessons for other industrial sectors. We should also be looking at leather goods and footwear, and using textiles as an industrial sector flagship that can lead the way in this new century, with European workers able to earn a living from producing high-value, quality products. . – Mr President, just before the formal sitting you interrupted this vote very suddenly. It rather surprised me, and I am sure many other Members of the House, who during the formal sitting expressed their surprise at the way in which the vote was interrupted. We have just seen the first vote after the formal sitting fail to secure a qualified majority by only a handful of votes. Does that not demonstrate what we were talking about and the point Mrs Roth-Behrendt has raised? When we have qualified majority votes they should not be interrupted in any way by the formal sitting. There were eight votes to go. I can inform you, on the basis of my experience, that you could have completed that in three minutes. It is ridiculous that we are now proceeding with qualified majority votes when Members have not been given a reasonable amount of time to come back into the Chamber. I hope you could address that issue, Mr President. Mr President, I have listened with complete amazement to some of the things that have been said here tonight. It is very difficult to work out whether there are any facts amongst all that fiction. There has been a complete cloud of confusion, and indeed a cloud of confusion that now has an odour of hypocrisy about it that I cannot believe. These are the facts. Those ships are dry cargo ships, they are not war vessels. Those ships do not contain any more toxic materials than any other normal cargo ship. The only asbestos on them is the asbestos you would find around any engine on any ship. The only oil on them is the oil you would find in the tanks that fuel them – they are not petrol tankers. They have very little in the way of PCBs and other hazardous substances. They have a seaworthiness certificate which was granted to them before they left harbour – and they would not have left harbour unless they had it. The States whose waters they pass through on the way have been consulted and their views taken into account. We are doing this properly and we are doing it because we decided ten years ago not to dump our oil rigs into the North Sea, but to bring them back to Teesside and other places and recycle them. We have the capacities. We have the knowledge. We have the capabilities to do what the Americans cannot do, because they dump their oil rigs into the Gulf of Mexico. The Commissioner should be asking what is going to happen to the 100 and more ships that are leaving EU waters this year to be dumped and destroyed in the Third World in a totally unacceptable manner, rather than making remarks about things being done properly by the British. – On behalf of my Group, I welcome the Commission’s report and the rapporteur’s report. The incidents which precipitated the study and the subsequent reports in Spain and in Hungary have made us aware of the problems posed by mines and mine-workings, both old and new. The potential problems – particularly the problems of water pollution – are cross-boundary problems and therefore worthy of European-wide legislation. After consideration of existing legislation, be it on IPPC, landfill or Seveso, and in each case I have acted as the rapporteur at different stages of development of that legislation, it is clear that none of them can provide a comfortable solution to the range of problems presented by mining operations. So I would concur with the rapporteur that a new piece of legislation – some kind of new initiative – is required to regulate the mining industry in particular. I would raise two points with the rapporteur. Firstly, old sites do not necessarily need to be cleaned up. Many old sites are literally centuries old and have developed in such a way that they are now sites of scientific interest and contain particular flora and fauna. I would urge that we should consider preserving sites and using sites in that way rather than simply clearing them off the face of the earth at great expense. Secondly, I would say that classifying mining waste as waste is very difficult when you consider that large amounts of it are simply crushed rock and quite similar to products that you would get from any quarry in the Union. Therefore I would say that we have to look more particularly at processed waste from mines which often contains high levels of toxic chemicals. That does require regulation. I would say that the amendment from the EPP Group is not particularly helpful, since it tries to reduce the scope of this directive to the mining of metal ores. From my own experience, the first tailings dams I ever saw were in Derbyshire in the north of England, and they were the result of the mining of fluorospa, not a metal as any chemistry teacher will tell you. But they present exactly the same problems as tailings dams resulting from mining operations. I would recommend a positive vote tomorrow and, I hope, rapid action by the Commission to implement the recommendations. – Mr President, I want to focus on one particular issue which I feel has not been fully explored. Dioxin, and in this case its source chemical PCB, is one of the number of non-biodegradable bio-accumulative chemicals that we know are contaminating the food chain around the world. There are rules and regulations already in existence for the correct and proper disposal of these substances. Indeed, I was Parliament's rapporteur on the Council and Commission proposal for the elimination of PCBs and PCDs we dealt with in the last Parliament. We have to ask if these existing European rules and regulations are being properly followed. Are the responsible authorities given the duty to dispose of these chemicals in a correct and safe way, following the rules, or are they deliberately avoiding them and disposing of these chemicals in the wrong way? This incident appears to indicate that is the case. Unlike bacterial or some other form of organic or biological contamination of the food chain, we have here a finite quantity of substance that could easily be eliminated. Would the Commission please look into why the regulations on the proper disposal of PCBs and PCDs are not being correctly followed? Will they please investigate where the substances came from that caused this incident? – First of all, I thank the Commissioner for a comprehensive and clear reply. Clearly the Commission has taken action with regard to this issue. It is of concern not only to myself but to a great deal of other people in the Union, particularly those in the airconditioning industry, who could see a potential change in their market happening far too rapidly for them to respond with technical measures on with any kind of appropriate economic steps. I hope the Commission will continue to press the Danish authorities to be quite clear about their intentions. I hope that the Commission will seek further contact with the Danish authorities over and above the letters they have already sent, to ensure that a reply is received quickly. The amount of uncertainty at the moment with regard to the intentions of the Danish Government is creating ripples across the single market and raising doubts that are not conducive to the progressive restructuring of the air-conditioning market – and the other markets in which these gases are used – so that they can be phased out over an appropriate and sensible period of time. I hope the Commission can assure us that action will be taken. – Mr President, on behalf of the Socialists I welcome this report which will place serious and proper restrictions on a number of very dangerous substances that are now known to be toxic, mutagenic or carcinogenic to human beings. We must push this report through. As regards the critical issue here, which is the extension of this ban to products, the Socialist Group fully supports the second amendment which proposes this idea. We recognise, of course, that further work needs to be done on this question. We must consider these products, the level of risk they present, their contact with human beings and the places where they are used. We believe, however, that this can happen further down in the legislative process. This amendment should be supported so that these discussions can take place. – Mr President, like most of the other speakers here, I see absolutely no reason at all for any kind of immediate suspension, or urgent suspension, of the hushkit regulations. There are regulations, we put them in place. I was here at the first reading in the Parliament in Strasbourg. There were not very many of us here, a lot fewer than there are today, when we introduced these regulations in the first instance. They are good regulations. There are going to be useful regulations and they are going to bring positive benefit to the people of Europe. That does not mean though that you should not negotiate. I was fortunate to have an opportunity to talk with Under-Secretary Slater yesterday along with a number of my other colleagues. They seem to be reasonable people who would be willing to talk reasonably with you about a better, long-term solution. We know there are better long-term solutions because we know our regulation applies only in Europe. Although it may have some spillover effect in the not too far distant future to third countries, we are not having a world-wide effect. Your objective, Madame Palacio, is to get that world-wide effect. Your objective is to make absolutely sure that whatever agreement you come up with with the Americans secures new controls on aircraft noise world-wide out of ICAO in a clear timescale. It is not just a question of agreeing to the controls and the levels but also a timetable for implementation that makes us happy and satisfied in this Parliament. That is the mandate we are giving you here today. That is what we would like to see you come back with at some time in the future. In the meantime though, enforce and implement the regulations as we expect them to be enforced and implemented. Tell the Americans that if they want to talk in an atmosphere of confidence and trust and goodwill, the first thing they can do is to suspend their Article 84 complaint in ICAO. They do not have to withdraw it, they do not have to take it away, they just have to make sure it does not go on the agenda of the next meeting. Suggest that to them, Madame Palacio. Start the negotiations and then come back to us with a reasonable compromise. – Mr President, like many here I welcome the report and congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done so far. The compromise we have agreed and voted in the environment committee has resolved many points of difference between various colleagues in the Parliament, but not all of them, as we know. Like many, if not all here, I am a strong supporter of this proposal. It is developing into a flexible measure, it is market-based and it will definitely help the EU to achieve the CO2 reduction targets that we have in front of us. This will also be at a reasonable cost, which must not be overlooked. With existing nationally-based schemes we are learning by doing, and we must continue to do so. Therefore we must allow the schemes in front of us to come to a natural conclusion and allow some industrial installations to opt out and opt in, at least in the earliest phases of the new scheme. I will be pleased to see all six major greenhouse gases included. I will not be happy to see, however, limits on the allocation of allowances, on the introduction of an untried system of benchmarking, or on limiting access to international trading systems as foreseen by the Kyoto Protocol. They are measures that still need to be addressed. Every journey begins with a first step. We should not underestimate the length of the journey that we are beginning today by starting on this legislation. We should not underestimate just how steep, stony and difficult the path is going to be, but I do hope, for all our sakes, and for the world, that we can set off on the right foot and in the right direction. – Mr President, on behalf of myself and the other Labour Members, I want to point out why we voted against today. It was in no way because of the resolution presented to this Parliament by Mrs Jackson, which we fully supported. But we have to bear in mind that, although this resolution was only advisory, the Commission had specifically said that it would take careful account of what we said in it. It specifically said that, whilst under the present modus vivendi this resolution could not have any binding impact upon its actions, it would be taken fully into account. Regrettably, some Members of this Parliament have not taken up the serious responsibility that the Commission has put in their hands and have not acted sensibly, particularly with regard to Amendment No 4. This contains labelling proposals for products derived from animals that have been fed GMOs. This is something which is bound to happen to almost all the animal livestock within the European Union and is happening now. The consequences would be that the vast majority of meat products in our shops would be labelled as having been derived from genetically modified organisms. This would not give beneficial information to the consumer but simply cause confusion and create an atmosphere in which the whole issue of genetically modified organisms would take a new and more confusing turn. It seems to me that, whilst Labour Members are fully in support of the resolution, we have to accept our responsibility and acknowledge the maturity of our position. Madam President, I welcome this agreement. It is absolutely essential to ensure the workability of the emissions trading system when it starts in January 2005. I want to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done. I have seen a lot of rapporteurs and he really has done a very good job. He has secured an agreement with the Council which is a practical compromise and which will reap considerable environmental rewards whilst providing for industry a great deal more certainty than the original proposal. I am happy that we have been able to retain the cap on the number of credits issued. It is a sensible solution allowing Member States to monitor and control the market and make sure it is not flooded. On specific issues, I believe we have been able to persuade the Council of the need for greater reflection on whether to include domestic projects. The guidelines we have laid down there are useful. As regards 'sinks' I feel we have the best possible deal: a prohibition on companies using credits from land-use projects and carbon forest sinks until at least 2008. We will find this is a very difficult thing to calculate and we need time to look at it more closely. Concerning big hydro and nuclear projects, it seems disappointing if we wanted the allowances for such projects excluded permanently from the scheme, but in reality Parliament has been able to ensure that the projects and the take-up within the European scheme are at least in line with Kyoto and the World Commission on Dams and the Marrakech Accords. It is not really a bad result. Our message to EU governments is clear: real, environmental improvement through emissions reductions must be brought about by long-term, sustainable effort at home and not by cheap, ill-advised and potentially detrimental projects in the poorer countries. Member States: we will be watching you! – Mr President, I would firstly like to say how much I admired the work of the rapporteur as regards this report; it was difficult enough bringing it through Parliament first reading. It has been even more difficult at second reading as we have had a lot of competing views, conflicting scientific opinion and lobbying from various interested parties in the industry on specific substances. Nevertheless, the rapporteur has done a marvellous job and what we have in front of us now is a coherent set of amendments, a coherent position that goes further than the common position, further than Mrs Flemming thinks we can go. I am surprised at what she says as we went further than the common position a week ago in Beijing. We must give it our support. There are very serious issues at stake here. If the ozone layer is not repaired as quickly as possible and damage halted, there will be widespread skin cancer, widespread eye damage among the human population around the world. This is already starting to happen in some places. We, as Europeans, have to maintain our lead and set an example. There can be no going back on any particular substances, despite some pleading to do so. We can only allow the continued use of certain other substances where there is a genuine threat of smuggling into the Union of other supplies that might be used to continue supporting existing equipment. We must recognise that the Montreal Protocol has progressed step by step. Last week we saw it take another step in Beijing. We have moved on to getting rid of CFCs, moving on to deal with the other substances – HCFCs and halons. We must continue to ensure that process carries on. In the European Union we must help in assisting Third World and developing countries to move quickly into new technologies that do not harm the ozone layer, that do not use ozone-destroying chemicals. In that sense, we must support the rapporteur's amendments and look very carefully at some of the amendments which I hope we will see in conciliation in order to achieve further progress. – Mr President, I must first of all welcome this report. It has taken some time to get it to the plenary session. Mrs Breyer has been persistent, though, and she has worked very hard on it. So I think we can now give it our general support and endorse entirely the principles of what is being proposed here today. This priority list of thirty-two proposed substances, ranked according to their known dangerous properties, is the right way to start trying to deal with the problem of water pollution. However, we also need to consider the possibility of adding to this list or simply changing it using the COMMPS procedure or using other additional information we might obtain in the coming years. We do have to consider this list very carefully before action, but that is not an excuse for no action or slow action. It is still bizarre to me that nickel is included on this list and that our approach to families of chemicals has unfairly targeted fluoranthene alongside the other PAHs. So, clearly further work is needed on this initial list. The timetable for action is not really ambitious. 2020? I really think that perhaps we can go a little faster than that. The idea of getting close to zero emissions of these substances is a fairly vague objective and I think some of the European Parliament's amendments today help to clarify this issue. But I do not doubt for one minute that this is the way ahead, that these are the steps we have got to take to protect an increasingly important resource, the quality of which is vital to future generations. This is a blessing they do not have in other parts of the world. In Europe we should count our blessings and care for our blessings; our water resources are one of those very important blessings. – Mr President, firstly I congratulate the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets on the work he has done this year. I also thank Mr Wynn for the cheerful way in which he conducts the Budget Committee, a new experience for me. The rapporteur has done very well given the constraints he has been under this year. Whilst the budget lines under the responsibility of the Committee of the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy are not great in monetary terms, they play a vital role in facilitating the development of the Union’s policies, and particularly in bringing closer to the Union and realising the needs and desires of the ordinary citizens. The Budgets Committee rapporteur has acknowledged a number of points we have made and has enabled us to maintain spending in most areas and develop it modestly in one or two. I cannot thank the Council in the same way when I examine their PDB. They have to give greater priority to the interests and needs of citizens. Utilising the amounts determined last year through the conciliation on the Whitehead report, the consumer affairs budget lines will continue to build confidence amongst the public, reassuring them that we are not just a Europe open for business but are also campaigning for citizens’ rights as consumers. The additional monies granted for the additional posts in the Veterinary Health Office in Dublin will reassure our citizens that we are taking steps to protect the quality and safety of the food on their plates. The new health responsibilities put into the Amsterdam Treaty can be developed using the additional monies granted on the health budget line. I particularly welcome the possibility of developing new strategies for dealing with mental health problems and neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s and CJD. Equally, as we come to the end of the fifth action plan on the environment, the monies available to begin development of the sixth action plan are most welcome. If I have a disappointment, it concerns the rapporteur’s approach to the various agencies of the Union, set up by the Commission. I was the only draftsman, along with Mr Bourlanges, to meet the representatives of the agencies and I heard good arguments for increasing monies available to those agencies for the work they are doing with the applicant states of Eastern and Central Europe and for bringing on to the market orphan drugs that are so vital for a relatively small number of people with diseases difficult to treat. I feel that perhaps more consideration could have been given to the arguments they made. I am very disappointed the rapporteur of the Budgets Committee did not accept the validity of the arguments as I have done. I can only hope that in the following years we can address the problems they have identified. . – Mr President, after three years' work on this report it is difficult not to be a little emotional. Having heard what has been said by my colleagues tonight, I want first of all to say how much I appreciate the kind words about the work I have done in the last three years and how delighted I am with the final outcome: a set of legislation which will provide the toughest laws on GMOs in the world. There is no question that this House and the other European institutions will be taking their responsibilities to the people of Europe seriously when they approve this legislation tomorrow. There is one point of confusion which I wish to clear up. Many speakers have spoken about the problem of a moratorium. This is an informal gentleman's agreement, as it is called, between the Commission and the Council. Approving our legislation tomorrow will do nothing to lift this moratorium or change the situation with regard to the moratorium. That is a decision that has to be taken between the Member States and the Commission. What they do will decide what happens to the moratorium, not what we do tomorrow. What we must do tomorrow is support this piece of legislation because without it we do not go forward, we go backwards. Without it, we do not go forward into a strong regime of legislative control, we go backwards to the old directive, the discredited directive, which is of no use to any of us. It has caused the Commission and the Council to halt the approval of GMOs and has caused this Parliament to work for nearly three years on replacing it. We know very well that this is just the first step in the process. There is other legislation under way. We had the privilege – and I thank the Commission for this – of seeing its draft legislation, the regulation which has already today been passed for consultation within the Commission. At first appearance, this document seems to be an important and very good step in the right direction and I am sure it is going to join the 92/20 revised directive within months as part of the legislative framework to control GMOs. I can only say to the House that we must accept our responsibilities. We must do what we have to do for the people of Europe and that is to support this piece of legislation tomorrow. – Mr President, I welcome this procedure this year because it is the earliest start we have ever had and this will enable us, I hope, to give more serious consideration and more detailed consideration as the process develops. So I treat this as a beginning and not an end. As a beginning, I would say the Environment Committee would like to reiterate the demands it made last year with regard to the budget. We have a persistent and clear need to continue to work towards greening the budget in all areas of policy activity and I want to see further work on this this year. In addition, we are spending a lot of money on our external policies, particularly through the PHARE and TACIS programmes, on ways of developing the important role of the environment and the sustainable development of those areas so close to our own borders. I want to see more work from the Commission showing us how that money is being properly and correctly applied and what the positive outcomes are. I also want to give more consideration to what the agencies are doing and take a more differentiated approach to them depending on their particular roles and activities which we have not done in the past. In particular we want to consider the problems that the Treaty of Amsterdam presents and the fact that the full financial implications of the Treaty of Amsterdam are only being realised this year and we have to take account of that. The committee also wants to reiterate its support for continued financial assistance to NGO participation in much of the technical committee work of the Parliament and the Commission. Finally, Mr President, I would say that we continue to oppose the tobacco subsidies which are continuously being paid by the Commission and the sooner we get a chance to do something about it the better. That is the view of this Parliament. – Mr President, I welcome the Commission proposal on chemical policy. It is long overdue. For too long we have seen a gradual increase in allergenic reactions and even worse human health effects and at the same time a series of undesirable effects on the general environment. If we adopt this report, we will be taking a first step towards asking a very important question: whether the 30 000 chemicals in general use today and the 100 000 components that they are used to make are in any way responsible for the things we see happening to human health and the world around us. There is no doubt that we will have to make a very wide-ranging examination of the chemicals in use today and those that we might want to introduce into our environment in the future. We will have to start considering issues and areas that we have not previously considered. Socio-economic issues will be particularly important. The full effects of changing our chemicals policy and strategy will be wide-ranging across the whole of Europe. However, one would hope that, by taking a serious step forward tonight and starting to formulate a new structure for chemicals policy, we will arrive at a policy which is truly sustainable in the long term; which brings genuine and positive benefits to society as a whole; ends any negative impacts upon human health in the environment and stands as a shining example to other parts of the world as to how they should progress in future. So tonight we are taking a step not just towards a cleaner and better European environment and a stronger and more prosperous chemical industry in Europe but also towards a healthier and better future for the whole world. Mr President, I agree with a lot of what has been said so far. This has been a difficult report which arouses strong emotions and we do not have a European consensus on the issue. The use of human embryos to create embryonic stem cell lines and embryonic stem cell research are contentious, but we have discussed the issues and have reached a useful consensus in the report by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. I had to modify my views on the subject – which are quite liberal – in order for a consensus to be reached, and I know Mr Liese has modified his views too. However, I am now concerned that many amendments that were comprehensively defeated in the Industry Committee are being retabled. I appeal to colleagues to think again. We have quite a good compromise, which we should support. The vote in the Industry Committee was a reasonable and proper one. One or two amendments need to be addressed. A number of colleagues have sought to reintroduce a very restrictive deadline on the use of supernumerary embryos, which is a very serious problem. It means that, to create any new stem cell lines, you must use ageing supernumerary embryos which are not in the best condition. If you accept this restrictive deadline, more embryos are inevitably destroyed to create useful and viable stem cell lines. It means that if you restrict yourself to using just existing stem cell lines created before the date stated by Mr Nisticò and others, you will be confined to using ageing stem cell lines from the USA that have been made by using mouse-derived proteins and that are not suitable for treatments for human patients. This is the trap that the USA has fallen into and we should learn from that. We should also take note that research scientists are already leaving the USA for the UK and Asia to avoid the problems created by the introduction of a deadline. Personally, I would prefer that there should be no deadline, but I think that what the Commission proposes is the maximum practicable limit. The rapporteur says there is no immediate prospect of therapies being available to patients; if he gets this restrictive deadline reinstated, he may be right. I appeal to this Parliament to support the compromise proposed by the Industry Committee and not to support restrictive deadlines. Stem cell research will then bring relief to millions of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and diabetes sufferers, some of them known to us personally and some in fact colleagues in this House. Please vote for common sense tomorrow and on Wednesday. – Thank you, Mr President. I have listened with interest to the debate today. I have listened with interest to the things which Mr Prodi has said in the past about how we can reach a solution to the crisis with food safety within Europe. One conclusion comes immediately to my mind which I do not hear Mr Prodi addressing, and that is the implementation and enforcing of existing legislation. Forget about creating new agencies, forget about new rules; why are you not looking much more seriously at implementing and enforcing the existing legislation? If you had done that, then we should not have had a dioxin crisis in Belgium. Mr Prodi really has to think about that and perhaps produce proposals for that before Christmas. Central to the solutions that he is proposing is the food agency. We have to remember, Mr Prodi, that when this Parliament has looked at this problem of a food agency in the past, we have not been absolutely sure about whether this is the right way forward. However we, like you, are prepared to listen and consider it. But I have to say to you that we will have to ask you some very hard questions before we can be satisfied that you are moving in the right direction. The first question will be whether it is a food and drug agency or a food safety agency that you are proposing? The second will be how much power you will devolve from the Commission to this new agency, and perhaps to some of the existing agencies, so that they can do their job better and assist the food agency in solving the problems regarding food in Europe? How will you ensure the accountability of these new agencies? Would you consider, for example, hearings held here in the European Parliament to choose the directors of those agencies? There are many issues that we want to hear from you about, Mr Prodi. We would like to hear from you today about them. We definitely want to see them in your White Paper. Finally, Mr President, I would say that there is already a confusion in the minds of parliamentarians about who is responsible inside the Commission for key elements of this problem. We have Mr Byrne responsible for some issues and Mrs Wallström responsible for others, particularly as regards GMOs. You must resolve those issues inside the Commission before you take steps towards creating a food agency. – Mr President, firstly, I should like to congratulate Mr Davies for the work that he has done on this report. He brings something to us which will hopefully provide some interesting issues to be debated and discussed and then resolved in consultation. This report excellently demonstrates why environment policy has to be achieved at a European level. Ozone is a European problem and the best example I can think of a problem that has to be addressed at the European level. For example, within the United Kingdom, where in many ways the circumstances are amongst the most favourable within the European Union, 50% of the ozone is created by emissions outside the UK. That is very much the pattern for the rest of Europe. Indeed, in many parts of Europe, a great many of the problems about ozone are not necessarily a consequence of activities by that individual Member State. Ozone is a collective problem which has to be dealt with collectively. I have one concern, namely that we are trying to set too strict values. We are setting target values that, by their very nature, will be almost impossible for many Member States to meet in certain given circumstances during the year. They are going to be, through no fault of their own, in breach of European legislation. It is not sensible that we should create a piece of legislation that puts Member States in this position. There are many Member States, particularly in southern and eastern-central Europe who are going to find themselves constantly in breach of this legislation, no matter what they do. Some of the things they are going to have to do, where physically possible, as indicated in the compromise amendments, is to close factories, perhaps shut down whole parts of industry, and create car-free zones inside their cities. And still they will not solve the problem of ozone. Still they will find themselves breaching this regulation we are creating. When we go into conciliation – as I expect we will because we will have the votes for many of these amendments in the House – we are going to have to think very carefully about whether we continue to adopt this type of approach and this type of legislation. – Mr President, there is not a lot more which needs to be said, because most of it has been said by Mr Blokland. I would like to start by agreeing with the last speaker. This is a good report and the rapporteurs have worked really hard on it. A first-reading agreement, though it is not absolutely certain yet, is what we would like to see. We think that by and large the amendments are sensible additions to the text. We are a little concerned about the proposals on Member States including chemicals in the PIC procedure and think that everyone should be properly consulted if that is going to happen. We need this measure without delay. It will help to improve our public health and environmental protection, both inside and outside the European Union. We are anxious to go through with it and we will be supporting the vast majority of the amendments and following the rapporteur tomorrow. We would like to see a solution as quickly as possible. We need more international agreements like this and we need speed. Many pieces of chemical legislation have taken too long to be properly implemented in the past. – Mr President, like everyone else I should like to congratulate the rapporteur for the work he has done on this proposal. He has worked very hard on it and moved it quite fast, in parliamentary terms. When you consider the full implications, what he has achieved has been quite phenomenal. This is the most extensive recycling scheme we have ever seen in Europe. Unfortunately, we live in an increasingly throw-away society where we produce more and more waste. What I am pleased to see with this proposal is that we are finally moving in the direction when the days when we can throw fridges, televisions, toasters, mobile phones and other electrical goods into a landfill are over. We all want to see a new era in which environmentally-friendly electric goods are fully recycled or reused. We all need to play our part in this as consumers and become habitual recyclers. But are these proposals going to help us? Furthermore, are Parliament's amendments going to make things better? In large part I can say ‘yes’, but not entirely. Too rigid an application of the principle of individual responsibility will cause major problems for small- and medium-sized enterprises across Europe and prevent sensible collective schemes being implemented. Enforced mandatory separation of electronic waste at each household, which could then, when non-compliance is found, be threatened with punishment is not a sensible way to encourage the cooperation of consumers nor is it, in every case, technically feasible. Do we really want to include consumable spare parts and sub-assemblies in this proposal even if they add contamination and enormous technical problems to the recycling process? Does not everyone realise that small firms throughout the European Union need some extra time and assistance to cope with their full responsibilities and do this job properly? All this leads me to think that we need a bit more time. After tomorrow's vote we should all pause for some thought about how we can make this directive fully environmentally friendly, cost-effective and attractive to the public. – Mr President, I have listened very carefully to the debate so far and I was very interested in what Mr Stercks and Mr Lannoye said. To understand properly much of what they have said, one must consider the history. For many years, there was no sign at all of ICAO taking any action to deal with the problem of growing aircraft noise so we in this Parliament took action. We introduced the hushkits regulation which suspended the use of aircraft not retrospectively fitted with noise suppressors – the hushkits starting in April 2002. Then suddenly, there was action. The Americans threatened legal action and sanctions and ICAO seemed to wake up. ICAO proposed new and better noise standards and guidance on sensible operating restrictions around airports. We are now asked though to rescind our regulation and to accept this new directive, which is quite clearly much watered-down, and to expect ICAO to agree on some new international standards as soon as possible. I will probably go along with this at the vote tomorrow because I agree that something is better than nothing, but we can only expect only some small improvements, and only potential improvement at that. I have to say that I am not convinced that there will be any real improvement at international level unless it is very slow as is the custom with ICAO. Therefore, if the Commission does finally get around to sending us a report in five years' time, we might just get a chance to see what this muddled arrangement has produced. I look forward to the report. I look forward to returning to the debate and I hope Mr Jarzembowski is happy with himself because I am not sure that I am. Mr President, Mr Kronberger already knows my opinion on this report as I have expressed it quite strongly in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. However, I should perhaps be more moderate in my views tonight. He may be quite passionate in his opinions but frankly they are misjudged. He might be quite earnest in the conclusions he arrives at but frankly they are erroneous. He must now face the reality that if he wants to regulate emissions of this kind from the industrial installations we are talking about, setting emission values just does not work. The impact on those installations of trying to impose such standards would be unbearable. Nevertheless, I have one or two kind things to say about his report. Like the curate's egg in English parlance, it is good in parts. If you look at mercury and arsenic, for example, there may be a case for trying to set emission values in this sector, but certainly not in others. Take for example nickel. Nickel is one of the most important elements used in the production of stainless steel. The most common type of stainless steel contains 18% of nickel, but it can contain up to 30%. The nonsense of this proposal is that it assumes the measures used to control gaseous emissions of nickel can be applied to the situation in steel plants where nickel is emitted as a fine dust during the production process. In reality, the vast amounts of dust in the production area contain only a very small amount of nickel and the emissions from steel plants are relatively small. To try nevertheless to reach emission values in such a situation would be impossible. Again in the case of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, the kind of measure proposed by Mr Kronberger will inevitably lead to the closure or end of use of coal-fired power stations, to the end of coal burning being used, to a loss of jobs and, across the whole of Europe, to an even greater reliance on imported gas and other supplies. However well-meaning, these proposals are unrealistic, ill-considered and would undermine Europe's reputation for taking a responsible approach. I would urge him to think again. – Mr President, I think that today the European Parliament is faced with one of its more important debates in the last few years, given that it is dealing with the dangers of the release of genetically modified organisms into our environment. It seems to me that this vote could be a watershed. It would, we hope, give us a new tough set of rules that would ensure that genetically modified crops and other GMO products are used throughout Europe in a safe and sensible way that ensures protection of the environment and guarantees the safety of public health. There are a number of critical issues which need to be addressed. The first and the most important is the issue of producer liability. The European Parliament has long called for legislation which would ensure that companies that want to produce genetically modified organisms would be totally responsible for the products they produce. In other words, under the terms of the amendments, companies would be required to take out insurance to cover any possible damage to human health or the environment caused by GMOs and could be sued if their crops escaped and created super-wheats or contaminated organic crops or if GM crops were found to damage human health. Regrettably, instead of accepting their full responsibilities, a number of companies have been launching massive campaigns behind the scenes to try and stop this proposal from advancing. I am in no doubt that when we have the discussion tomorrow many MEPs will be confused and perhaps split in their vote on this issue. I feel that the compromise we have found with the Christian Democrats is one that is viable and workable and I hope it will find support here. At the same time the European Commission can endorse it by giving further reassurances about their own proposals for such a liability measure. I want to see that European Commission proposals have real teeth when it comes to this Parliament in the not too distant future. In addition to that critical issue there are also a number of other important questions. I hope that tomorrow my colleagues will renew their support, as they did at first reading, for the demands for strong new limits on the use of GMOs containing genes with resistance to antibiotics. Parliament has in the past called for a ban on all GM crops and foods containing such antibiotic-resistant genes, even those used for research. Tomorrow we may take a softer line, but nevertheless we want to see action in this area. We want to ensure that serious consideration is given to the dangers of using these crops. Other measures that I think we need – and on which I would seek the support of the Parliament tomorrow – include new measures to restrict the dangers of the cross-breeding of GMO plants with naturally occurring wild relatives. We need to ensure that when products are placed in the field, whether they are plants or whether they are animals, they do not cross-breed and irreparably damage the balance that exists in the natural environment around them. We must also address an issue which was avoided at first reading, and that is the question of the control of the import and export of GMO crops and other GMO products. Here we need to go to at least as far and perhaps beyond the measures agreed in the Bio-Safety Protocol in Montreal in January. Many people fear the possible consequences of genetic pollution and it is our job to respond to those fears. Those fears have recently been heightened by the discovery of GMO-contaminated cotton-seed imported from the USA into Greece for cotton production, which for the moment at least has no approval at all for commercial planting within the EU but nevertheless has found its way across our borders and into use in at least one Member State. We have been lobbied by very many groups during the process of developing this legislation. Not just the industry but also Friends of the Earth and Greenpeace have given their backing to various aspects of Parliament's report. They have supported us in continuing to press the Council of Ministers to agree on new GMO rules on licensing as quickly as possible, to bring to an end the  moratorium on new GMO commercial approvals, which has been in operation since the Commission published its proposal almost two years ago. The lobbying has become quite intense in the last few weeks. The outcome of the vote in Parliament tomorrow is likely to bring a few shocks and surprises. But it should mean that in six months' time the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers and the Commission will have arrived at an agreed proposal, at a revised directive for the commercialisation of biotechnological inventions and biotechnological products. That should give biotechnology companies and others involved in the industry a clear idea of the rules that they have adhere to and consequently a more transparent and predictable regime. That can be only good for the future development of this new technology within the European Union. At the same time, I would hope that our governments will be able to assure their consumers and their people that GMOs released into the environment anywhere in Europe will meet the much more stringent standards that we are fixing here in Parliament tomorrow and that the public concerns regarding the protection of human health and the environment from the dangers of GMO inventions have been properly addressed. And I hope one of the significant non-legislative outcomes of this process will be a shift in the balance of power in the approval and control of GMO crops and food in favour of the public. For the biotechnology industry that can only be to the good. It will create an atmosphere, a situation in which it can work carefully, thoroughly and I hope successfully to make positive use of this very brave new technology that we should all welcome, with the appropriate safeguards. – Mr President, I should like to begin by agreeing with Mrs Jackson that we are sinking, perhaps not as fast as the Titanic, but I understand this building is built on very soft ground. It may happen long after we have left, but I am sure it will eventually sink into the mire it was built upon. It has already flooded on the ground floor during construction. I expect that will happen again before too long. Getting back to the matter at hand, Mrs Jackson has essentially asked all the right questions in the right order. This proposal was supported unanimously in committee because we believe something has to be done, and done quickly, to meet consumer demands for labelling and to meet consumers' justified concerns about knowing what they are eating. The consumer has a right to know. The Commission has made a brave attempt to put something on paper, limited in scope though it is, to help the consumer. I will support that. But how practical is it? Is it going to work? The 1% limit on any ingredient – which I and others have been informed is already being exceeded by supermarkets etc. in terms of their requirements for food – is also a limit which I am told can quite easily be met by anyone wishing to avoid having to label foods containing GMs, because of adventitious contamination, whatever that means. It therefore seems to me that an early review is going to be extremely necessary. The net result of this regulation will be, when we bring it in, that the vast majority of food in the supermarket will be exactly as it is now – unlabelled – because the vast majority of food may contain a small amount of GM, below the limit. That will be what happens. We are making a brave attempt here. The Commission is making a brave attempt here. I would like it to clarify exactly what the scope of its proposal is. I am told that at the moment it only applies to those products derived from soya and maize. I would like the Commission to tell me just how practical it thinks its measures are going to be and how quickly it will be able to change them if they do not work. – Mr President, like everyone else I welcome this report and I congratulate the rapporteur for his work. He has been thorough and consistent and has applied himself. We have moved a considerable step forward since this Directive was last considered for amendment in this House in Strasbourg in 1994 – I know because I was there. Events in Toulouse and in Enschede have demonstrated the need for action to amend and reinforce the existing Directive, so as to avoid any possibility of accidents and to minimise damage should an accident occur. A future directive on pipeline safety and a proposal with regard to tunnel safety will also be very welcome because they respond to promises made during the last reading in 1994 and also to events, some of them very tragic, that have occurred consequently in other parts of the Union. The common position is, in fact, quite a significant step forward but it does not deal with all the problems. There are still issues that remain unaddressed – issues that are quite clear and evident to us because of events that have taken place in the recent past. Everywhere else we have responded. We responded to Enschede and Toulouse with this Directive. We have responded with directives to events that have caused us to be concerned about tunnel safety and pipeline safety. We are going to miss the chance to respond properly and completely unless we amend this common position to cover other events that have taken place in recent times within and outside the Union. The events of Baia Mare in Romania and Doñana in Spain demonstrate the need to take action with regard to mining safety and mining waste safety. Until we see the mining waste directive we cannot relent on amendments that we have previously passed in this committee and in this Parliament to ensure that action is taken with regard to those dangerous substances and activities, not necessarily utilising dangerous substances that clearly need regulation. Put them in the mining waste directive, Commission, and we will relent on the amendments. That is a reasonable remark. Other issues have still to be addressed. In 1994 we argued very strongly the case to have some kind of discussions on distance. We still do not have a solution on that and that is why we maintain the amendments and insist they are placed in the common position. Finally, on safety reports and some of the technical issues, I would ask the Commission to think again. They are produced and directed at you in the light of our own experiences. Please act on them. – Mr President, I should like to apologise for coming in late; this debate has proceeded rather quickly but I have listened to what the Commissioner said elsewhere. What she said did not appear very clear or precise at all in terms of the situation as it stands. I find that disappointing. We gave you a brief in March 2000. We expect you to stick to the brief or to come back and tell us something different. We need to know what progress you have made with that brief. We need to know what you are doing about it. We need to know what progress has been made on noise emissions, gaseous emissions, and indeed on fuel economy. Successful negotiation requires preparation and hard work. We need to know that is being done and we need to hear from you that it is being done. We need you to go out there and tell the Americans very clearly that noise and gaseous emissions from aircraft are a serious problem in Europe, a more serious problem than in the USA because we are a smaller place and we have a different infrastructure. The projected growth of air traffic demands is clearly an issue that requires action now. We need you to stick to your brief. We will be watching very closely. But essentially we need our Commissioner to stand up for Europe, to stand up for Europe and its industry, to stand up for Europe and its environment and to stand up for Europe and its people. We expect you do it. Let us hope that you can say something further at the end of the debate that will reassure me. . We welcome the result of today's vote on the Liese report on the 6th Framework Programme. The issue of funds for collaborative research projects using human embryonic stem cells and stem cell lines was discussed in depth in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy who reached a consensus view, reproduced today in Parliament. This will allow us to continue with this vital research which has the potential to bring relief to millions of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and diabetes sufferers. Several colleagues tabled amendments to the report seeking to express their own, or nationally based views on the matter, which would impose restrictive conditions on deadlines for use of stem cells or stem cell lines. This would discourage or simply prevent innovative research in this area confining scientists and researchers to using ageing supernumerary embryos which are not in the best condition and could even result in an increasing number of stem cells being consumed for this purpose. There is no ethical consensus on this issue in Europe. – Mr President, I welcome this report and some of those we have seen going through Parliament in the last few months. Indeed, I welcome Mrs Schörling's report that we will be voting on in the plenary session in Strasbourg in a couple of weeks' time. We are laying down a solid body of work, a solid body of information and some very important precedents as we move towards the setting up and launching of the new chemicals policy that we expect to come from the Commission very soon. What is becoming clear to us all is quite simply that present analysis of chemicals and the present chemicals on the market are not satisfactory. In the case of many chemicals on the market at the moment, we quite simply do not know how dangerous or how safe they are. We need a new system. We welcome the new system that is coming and, if you like, in the very dying moments of the old system, I have to say I can remember more of these amendments to the original directive than I care to remember, although I have not been here quite long enough to remember the original directive, and I have always found that we have not been sufficiently consistent in what we have done. I would agree with some of the remarks made by Mrs Schörling. We need a new chemicals policy. We are waiting for the new chemicals policy, Commission – where is it? – Mr President, first of all I must say that I welcome this report. The rapporteur has done a lot of work and the Commission has produced an excellent initiative stimulated by colleagues who prompted the Commission during the last Parliament. This is a very serious issue affecting the health of millions of people and it requires a careful and thoughtful action to cure the problems. It is a complex problem. We cannot get away from that and we really require a step-by-step, calculated approach to dealing with the problems of noise in every locality, in every place and in every cultural situation within the Union and elsewhere. For that reason the most important elements of this report are the need to have harmonisation of measurement and assessment methods across the whole of the European Union so we can talk in comparable terms about the problems. We also need to build noise maps and measure the real problem in every locality to establish what can be done in each case and adopt local measures to do that and eventually, by a step-by-step approach, we can arrive at a real action programme which is cost-effective in the measures that we adopt and which achieves the solution that we are looking for, a genuine reduction in noise levels and consequent improvement in human health. Some parts of the report propose too rapid and far too quick an approach to a problem which has not been properly and carefully assessed. It seems to me, for example, that the setting of noise limits at this time is presumptive. We need to assess exactly what measures can be taken at a local level and whether we need noise limits in future. We will have to progress down that road but the present proposal by the rapporteur goes too far in that direction at the moment. I would nevertheless commend the report and of course the Commission's proposal to the House. Mr President, there is no doubt that we need this legislation: we are absolutely drowning in a sea of milk cartons, hair sprays, coke cans, pizza boxes, bottles of wine and shampoo. They are evident in every town, city and street we go into across the Union, in particular the UK. Landfills are reaching capacity, incinerators are overflowing and the wads of excessive packaging we use should go. This legislation, if it signals the end of just one elaborate box, fancy bottle or something wrapped in plastic and sold in a heavyweight bag, will have done its job. However, I would call on everyone here to recognise the importance of allowing time for change. Ministers are calling for a 2008 date for the UK and some of the other states. I would ask you to support that. Culture change takes time. The UK is meeting its existing recycling targets, but it is simply not possible to meet and implement this legislation by 2007 without an expensive, crash-spending programme. The figures do not look very significant, but they represent millions of tonnes of material which must be collected, recycled and new markets found. A realistic timetable for implementation is five years. Any attempt to compress this time will result in spiralling costs – if not quite as much as Mrs Jackson says. Nevertheless, we need time and we will do the job. Mr President, first of all, on behalf of the PSE Group I thank the rapporteur for her work and also the presidency for its cooperation. This has been very a useful exercise in achieving a second reading agreement on an important proposal, one which is tackling a persistent, organic and very long-standing problem. We believe that this report is now a very satisfactory one and we are very happy to vote for it. I am very pleased that a number of the outstanding issues have been resolved. The whole issue of the legal basis has now been resolved, and I am satisfied with that. On the issue of POPs waste, we have come to a pragmatic realisation of the difficulties of completely abolishing waste containing POPs and we think that the appropriate proposal here will meet with the inevitable residual problems that we find with POPs being in waste and in other places. As regards some of the other issues, such as the problem of stockpiles, and technical and financial assistance, we have all come to reasonable agreements, and the rapporteur can be very proud that she has made a very positive step forward, which I do not think will take long to implement. The great thing about a second reading agreement is the willingness to take it forward into legislation quickly, which we are all waiting for. Naming and shaming is something which may or may not be necessary in this proposal: it is already contained in the Aarhus Convention. This is something we need to revisit, but a point that the rapporteur was right to raise. The whole issue of compatibility with the REACH Directive is one that we must all have on our minds at all times. That new proposal on REACH is going to be very important, but it must be comprehensive in its scope. We must find a way in which we can ensure, for example, that whilst POPs are outside the REACH Proposal, chemicals that contain POPs or might produce POPs as a residue are inside the proposal. This would be a very important step forward. It will certainly tighten up any potential loophole that might be created during the time in which we are going to work on that very important proposal here in the autumn. The PSE Group will be voting for this proposal tomorrow. We thank the rapporteur for her work, we thank the Commission for its proposal and cooperation, and finally the presidency for its willingness to find a second reading agreement. – Mr President, we have in front of us today a very important piece of legislation. It will affect our air quality, our water quality, the general quality of our environment throughout the whole of Europe and beyond in the coming years if we bring it to fruition. That is, of course, if the Member States have the will to do so. The proposal has now reached its second reading. We have insisted very strongly at first reading that the most stringent measures are taken to control gaseous emissions from large combustion plants throughout the Union because of the acid gases that are formed, because of the effects upon the environment, and because of the effects upon human health. We have now reached the point where we have in front of us the common position. I understand the Council has worked very hard to achieve this and it does propose new and better levels of emissions. However, my group thinks that things can go further. My group thinks that in combination with a number of other factors, Mrs Myller's report which is to follow for example, it is possible to put a little more into this proposal than we see already. In that respect, I would commend to you the amendments, particularly those that apply to the articles and the annex which control the emission limit values from the large combustion plants. It seems to me that we are confronted with a very difficult choice tonight because we must decide if what we vote tonight is at least in some way acceptable to the Council. The Council has indicated that it is unwilling to accept further amendments from Parliament. If we achieve the appropriate votes tomorrow, that unwillingness becomes an obligation and the Council will have to sit down and negotiate with Parliament. That cannot be a bad thing in terms of the recognition of the ability of this Parliament to achieve a high level of environmental protection for the people of Europe. It seems to me that what we can do tomorrow in the vote is to take a few more steps forward to achieve a little bit more in terms of benefit to the environment. That has to be balanced against the possible consequences for the energy strategies and the energy industries of the European Union. We are very mindful of that. If you look tonight at the amendments which the Socialists will be supporting, we have relatively long timescales for these new regulations to be incorporated into EU law. We must take this step forward, but inevitably we must also allow for the fact that this step needs to be accommodated not just by the environment but economically as well. You have in front of you a report with the amendments, the majority of which the Socialist Group can support, some of which we feel go too far. However, I would commend the report to the House. – Madam President, I have listened with interest to what Mr Prodi said. He has some very good ideas. A lot can be achieved but clearly it has to be done step by step. And the rather eclectic list of issues he has listed – the outcome of which is not yet clear – are going in one direction. However, one thing that does not require any new legislation, as he has proposed, and which will take us on some important first steps towards sustainability is clearly and simply the implementation and enforcement of existing environmental legislation within the Union. If this is done within the next five years, we will not need any new studies or legislation and it will be a shining example to the candidate countries of what they must do to become members of the Union. Will the Commissioner tell me what he is going to do about that? – Mr President, like everyone else, I welcome this report. We should not underestimate the significance of the step forward that we will take tomorrow when we vote on it in Parliament. It will bring all the EU countries into compliance with the Cartegena Protocol and enable them to go forward and ratify it. The ratifications will bring the protocol into force. There would then be further countries of the world quickly coming forward to ratify it, to ensure that they are present next April at the first conference of the parties that will turn the Cartegena Protocol into a reality in terms of an international trading system. I welcome that. It is an excellent step forward. It demonstrates how we can introduce the new technology of genetic modification. We can control it, use it, put the products in the market place and give people choices, wherever they are in the world, whether they are rich or poor. I welcome this report because it will show us a way forward. There remains only one last piece in the jigsaw of legislation within the EU needed to implement the proper control and use of GMOs, which is the traceability in labelling legislation that we hope to bring before Parliament next month. This is a pragmatic and sensible way forward. This is a way in which we can use these new technologies and implement them to the benefit of all. I hope we can take lessons from what we do tomorrow when we deal with further legislation next month. Mr President, it has been a long hard road on this directive. We have to thank the rapporteur for all her hard work, we have to congratulate the Parliament for the way in which we took this all the way to conciliation and got a good result, and we now have a very ambitious package in front of us, a packaging package, which, I am afraid, is going to take some Member States a lot of time to digest. We have set some very tough targets. We have recognised that this directive will enter into force in a period when we are enlarging the Union and a whole series of standards and objectives that we previously had in the group of 15 will now have to be extended to 25 Member States. Recognising that we even have weak Member States amongst the current 15, we have sensibly given derogations. I cannot stand here tonight and say my own country is a shining example of progress as regards the recycling of packaging. I am afraid we have always been slow, we have always been behind the average and we are going to have to do an awful lot of very hard work in terms of building infrastructure and putting a whole range of measures in place to ensure that we achieve the objectives that we have set down in this legislation. Along with everyone else, we must do it: if we have signed up to legislation, we must accept the responsibilities of fulfilling the obligations it gives us, and that is something which I think the UK will do and all the Member States must do. We have to recognise that high environmental standards must be paid for, but high environmental standards will also give us benefits. We will also, in the longer term, create a cleaner and greener environment for ourselves and for our children. I commend this package to the House. – Mr President, we can all stand here today and condemn the actions of the US Government in imposing these unjust, illegal and completely unfair tariffs on steel products imported into the USA. We all know that the tariffs have simply been put there for short-term political advantage and we regret it for that alone. But we must also stand united behind some clear, firm and serious action. We must show we mean business. The Commission must now act swiftly within the WTO to overturn these tariffs. We must see safeguarding measures brought in to prevent a flood of cheap imports from damaging our own industry. Those measures must be implemented in respect of all non-EU sources of steel in the form of quotas based on 1998 import levels if we are to do a proper job in protecting our own industry. I do not recommend fighting fire with fire in this circumstance. Instead, we must dump a large cold bucket of logic, common sense and international law onto the head of the US Government and bring it to its senses. . – Mr President, we are now close to the end of what has been a three-year process of reforming the legislation for the control and genetically modified use of organisms as products within the European Union. We have now completed the process of reconciliation and we have a text for final approval. The text before us meets many of Parliament's demands at first and second reading. We have the precautionary principle reaffirmed. We have tighter risk assessment of all GMO releases. We have schemes for monitoring traceability that will ensure continuous assessment of all releases throughout the ten-year life of this time-limitation for consents. We have achieved the phasing out of all harmful, antibiotic-resistant marker genes. We have a clear timetable. We have a clear and transparent process and a clear timetable for the approvals which ensure the mandatory consultation of the public which guarantees public registers of locations of GMOs grown and used. Steps have also been taken on the issues of liability, traceability and labelling. Parliament can only be satisfied on those issues, however, when we see the additional legislation and flanking measures which I understand are now in preparation within the Commission. In short, we have in front of us today for our approval the toughest GMO legislation in the world, so tough, in fact, that some natural foods in common use today would not pass through this procedure. Should we approve this legislation tomorrow it would mean the beginning of the end of the present informal 'moratorium' on GMO commercial approvals. Certain Members of the Council have, however, already made it clear that they will scrutinise individual applications for approval and may not allow commercialisation until legislation on traceability and labelling is in place. I welcome this. This is a final safeguard to the recommencement of an approval process which has been long awaited but it can be no reason for opposing the final approval of the new 90/220 legislation we have in front of us now. This legislation is an essential building block and foundation for the success of those measures still to come. I therefore commend this important legislation to the House. It is essential to ensure the safe and proper use of GMO products within the European Union. It is essential to ensure the building of public confidence in these products, it is essential to ensure that this new technology, which promises so much, will in the end deliver what we are seeking from it. . – Whilst the report of the committee set up by the European Parliament makes some important recommendations on how to improve the handling of any future outbreaks of foot and mouth disease, some MEPs are using the ‘wisdom of hindsight’ to launch wholly unjustified attacks on the UK Government. There is no doubt that the committee’s report underlines the scale of what was the world’s worst ever foot and mouth outbreak. It has to be remembered that on the day the alarm was first raised the disease had already taken hold in over 50 farms in 16 different counties. I understand the havoc it wreaked for so many individuals and communities in North Yorkshire and elsewhere. I know they need help to recover and reassurance that, at both UK and European level, we will do everything we can to ensure that such a devastating outbreak never occurs again. I hope that we will concentrate on the sensible and practical proposals put forward by the committee and other studies conducted into the outbreak – including the need to prevent infected meat and meat products entering the European Union. . – Mr President, we on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy this year can generally welcome the progress that has been made so far in formulating the budget for next year. Looking back historically, we are doing a better job every year and this is certainly due partly to the work done by the rapporteurs. Things are going along much more smoothly than they were, despite the fact that we are considerably squeezed for money because of external demands upon our budget. Nevertheless, I am pleased to see that the Committee on Budgets has supported the view of Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy in restoring some of the budget lines which we are particularly concerned with, at least to the level of the PDB. Also, it is worth mentioning that we look with approval upon the work that was done in terms of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgets with regard to the tobacco subsidies. They urge the Council to take a good look at this. We urge the Commission to take a good look at this. We know something must be done. I am pleased that the Committee on Budgets acknowledges this. Its proposals for a gradual reduction over a period of time of that subsidy make sense, and it is time the Council and the Commission started talking about this issue. One particular success is on the issue of the budget line associated with the approval of orphan drugs by the medicines agency. I am very pleased the Committee on Budgets has accepted our point of view and I hope the Commission does as well. This has been a very successful budget line since created last year together with the SAB procedure. We were concerned about what the Council wanted to do in terms of the massive cut it demanded in that line, which was completely unjustified. We are pleased about the restoration to an appropriate level of that budget line and we hope the Commission will also defend that point of view to the Council. This is a budget line which does genuinely good work for the people of Europe and brings real and genuine benefits and it must be protected. Finally, I would say that we have some concerns about the way in which the agencies have been handled. I can fully understand why money must go into the reserve and I can fully understand why there is increasing concern about the way the agencies operate, but we need to give them the appropriate resources to do their job and that particularly applies in the case of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. Madam President, I would like to focus on one specific issue. We have talked in broad terms of the importance of this report and the importance of the global effects it might have. But let us look at one small issue and how this report could affect it: let us take a look at ink-jet printer cartridges, probably one of the most widely used products in the world. The reality is that all the large manufacturers are using every trick in the book to prevent consumers getting a fair deal, at the same time undermining the need to improve energy efficiency, which is a crucial element in protecting the environment. The manufacturers need this legislation to make them do the right thing. There is big money at stake here. On average a refill cartridge can be sold for about half the price of a new product, and the consumer should have the change to reap the benefits. We need amendments in this report to ensure that those cartridges are refilled. Research carried out by organisations such as the Consumers' Association has highlighted the kinds of tactics adopted by some of these big-name companies. For example, the installation of microchips which suggest that cartridges are empty and even in some cases stop printers working, when in fact they have plenty of ink left. This is a waste of resources and a waste of energy. Surveys demonstrate quite clearly a variety of different costs of different printer operating systems, all brought about by operators using these methods which oblige the consumer to buy printer cartridges over and over again, instead of reusing and refilling. If we can build into the new eco-design legislation a requirement that cartridges must be refillable and recyclable, it will be a major step forward in both protecting the rights of the consumer and benefiting the environment. . – Mr President, I again would like to congratulate the rapporteur, the Commission and even, to some extent, the Council for the work they have done this year. This has been a budget procedure which has so far run with remarkable smoothness. We recognise the pressures on the budget – whether it is the Balkans, Palestine, enlargement, Afghanistan or the demand for action in new fields of activity. Balancing these pressures has been quite a performance, particularly on behalf of the Commission, and for that we say thank you. In those sectors that are the concern of the Environment Committee I particularly welcome the establishment of frameworks and long-term funding regimes which have certainly stabilised our work in the area of consumers. I welcome the developing framework in the area of health where it is certainly going to encourage the development of steady progress in that field. It is equally important to say that those kind of stable funding regimes assist our work enormously. I am pleased that they have been, in the most part, respected. I also welcome the decision that was going to be taken, but has not, not to withdraw money from the Life Programme for the environmental projects that are so important. We can only develop our work in guaranteeing the future rights of the consumer, the health of the public and the safe, clean environment if we put our money where our mouth is and spend the cash that is needed. – Mr President, I should like to remind this House that in Agenda 2000 we give a high priority to youth education and training but this priority is not reflected within the budget allocation to the Youth Action Programme. Yet this programme is about investing in our future, investing in young people who will become, as we have heard today, the Europeans of tomorrow. Through these action programmes we will change young lives, offering hope and options where before there were none. In my region, the West Midlands of England, thousands of young people have benefited. I want more to benefit, not fewer. Finally, it is rather apt, following Mrs Scallon, that I say this: let us remind ourselves in this House that these young people will become the generation that finally rid our continent of racism, sexism, homophobia, xenophobia and the other discriminations which shame us all! It is our duty to support this report and to support the youth programmes. And I would point out to Mrs Scallon that the term “Family” has been used politically to exclude more people than it has ever been used to include. I congratulate the rapporteur. () – Mr President, first of all, the Council seems to argue that it has no competence in the field of the individual rights. Is the Council therefore incompetent? I would like an answer. Furthermore, will the Presidency accept that Member States have a duty to condemn such discrimination because they are signatories to the employment framework directive which prohibits discrimination including on the grounds of sexuality and which must be transposed by 2003? Finally, will the Presidency act on a point of principle and condemn such discrimination generally – discrimination which blights the souls of those who practice it as well as those who condone it either by their silence or by their inaction? – Mr President, I am pleased to say that I have attended the UN Commission on two previous occasions, with both Mr van Van Hecke and Mr Wuori, who are taking part in the debate this afternoon. The Council said that we boast a long tradition in Europe on human rights, but it must be recognised that sometimes we hesitate in condemning the human rights abuses carried out by our so-called friendly states. I would urge that we must never hesitate; we must apply the same rules and standards regardless. Double standards undermine our highest ethics and our aspirations for a world free from human rights abuses. I agree absolutely with everything the Commission has said. However, in relation to the Cotonou and Association Agreements, I would say that we must enact the human rights and democracy clauses when human rights abuses occur. Anything else will be seen as a pitiful endorsement of such abuses. We cannot, and must not, look the other way, for one day people will look the other way when it happens to us. The young people and the others who look down on the Chamber today wonder what we talk about. We talk about a world where we can celebrate difference, where there is no persecution because someone's colour, creed, belief or sexuality is different from another's. I would just like to finish, regardless of any prepared speech, on what is absolutely essential and vital to remember. Pastor Niemöller said: "When they came for the communists, I did not speak out because I was not a communist. When they came for the Jews, I did not speak out because I was not a Jew. When they came for the trade unionists, I did not speak out because I was not a trade unionist. When they came for me – there was no one left to speak out." We must ensure that we are never hypocritical in the defence of human rights, and 11 September must teach us surely that the same rules must be applied regardless of whether a country is our enemy or our friend. – Mr President, I should like to thank Commissioner Kinnock for his detailed reply. I would like to encourage him further. He is absolutely right that we should look at the best practices available. We in this House must remind ourselves that we cannot be selective in the application of principle. We look towards enlargement and encourage good practice, yet here in our institutions we still continue to discriminate. But I welcome the signs of change. I hope that these will have the full support of this House and that we will begin to end the 'ping pong' game that we play with the human rights and civil liberties of ordinary men and women. For that is exactly what lesbians and gay men are. They are ordinary men and women made extraordinary by society's preoccupation with their sex lives. Let me also say on a personal matter that in my own Member State, my partner of 18 years, cannot possibly inherit my pension. That is discrimination. We must end it both within and outside the institutions. Finally, I should like to raise one very important issue, namely recognition by an EU Member State of a legal document. Such a legal document is certainly not available in the United Kingdom. I look forward to Commissioner Kinnock's replies. – Mr President, first of all I would like to welcome the statements from the previous speaker on a debriefing from the Council and the Commission following the UN hearing. I think that would be extremely welcome and I say that as a delegate who has attended the three previous sessions. We recognise the importance of the UN Commission as a forum to effect real change, but we feel that the Council, Parliament and the Commission must act together if we are to achieve our real aims. Of course, there were regrets about the lack of cohesion last year between the EU Member States and the so-called Western Group and we have better hopes for this year. We must recognise the fundamental importance of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and we call on the EU Presidency to address this important issue. It should also tackle the important issue of the abolition of the death penalty, and again, we call on the EU to sponsor a resolution inviting all states to introduce a moratorium on executions with a view to the total abolition of the death penalty, and we reiterate our request to the US, China, Saudi Arabia, Congo, Iran and other states to immediately end all executions. But let me turn to the rights of those sometimes forgotten, namely women, children, minorities, lesbian, gay and trans-gendered people who suffer inhumane and degrading treatment merely because of who they are. The case of the Cairo 52 in Egypt is still unresolved after more than 18 months, and again more people have been arrested for alleged homosexuality. The complaints of the three British men, Nesbitt, Nawaz and Pankhurst, who have made serious allegations of abuse, have yet to be investigated. I agree with the Council that we must be consistent in our applications and our approach, and must be determined to end human rights abuses wherever they occur. Where we have association agreements and human rights clauses, we should not hesitate in criticising those countries which fail to uphold human rights and, where necessary, suspend such agreements. – I too believe that we should not hold this debate without the relevant Commissioner here. It is far too important. We want the debate settled, we want the Commissioner to act, but we want him to act having heard all of the debate and not on the basis of information passed on second or third hand. We must adjourn the debate until the Commissioner is here. Mr President, I wish to begin by dealing with the allegation contained in Mr Perry's report that directives have not been implemented. That seems to have been accepted in this House. However, that assertion and allegation have not been proven. Mr Bolkestein has on many occasions – both to the committee and to this House – indicated that he could not look at past regimes: he could only rule if current law was compatible. Some of us heard that, but others failed to hear it. If there is alleged past failure, then the place to seek redress is in the national courts. This has been played before the national courts on many occasions, and the judgments have gone against the plaintiffs. Indeed, at the moment before the English High Court there is a case of alleged breach of statutory duty against Her Majesty's Treasury and the Secretary-of-State for the Department of Trade and Industry. Yet Mr Perry calls for documents which the UK Government has sent to the Commission, whilst failing to recognise that those same documents may form part of its defence. Any defence has to present its case before the relevant court. Equally, I have learnt, from being a member of the Committee on Petitions, that one of the petitioners is about to bring a case before the Court of Justice. Let me refer now to Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001. There is a degree of ignorance or naivety that appals me. Parliamentarians do not have to refer to Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 in order to gain access to documents. There is an interinstitutional framework agreement for parliamentary access. But, if anyone were to read that Regulation, he would see that the infringement proceedings are a particular exception under Article 4. Let me just refer to something Mr Perry said. All of us in public life must be consistent in the application of principle. Mr Perry said that he finds it shaming that the UK Government was so secretive that it undertook the withdrawal of documents. What does it have to hide? This morning I was in the STOA Panel discussing and voting on a study on inedibles in food product packaging. Mr Perry voted for the suppression of a public document. I fail to understand that. We must be consistent in the application of principle. The Commission has met its obligations. If Parliament wants to go down the cul-de-sac to the Court of Justice, let Parliament prove itself foolish. – President, as a rights holder I have a financial interest in television. I will not partake in the vote today. – Mr President, on a point of order. I should like to refer to the point of order that was made from the other side of the House about the attendance of Commissioners. If we demand the attendance of Commissioners, surely it is right and proper that we demand the attendance of all parliamentarians in this House? I would point out to the other side of the House that you cannot be selective in the application of principle. Thank you. – Mr President, I am sorry to make a second point of order when I still have not made my maiden speech in this House. I would like to point out to my colleague that the Treaty of Amsterdam refers to ending discrimination not only against women but against a whole range of minorities on the basis of race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability. That is something that I hope the Commission will approach as a whole and not just, on a point of order, the equal opportunities of women. – I feel I should raise a point of order in relation to what the Commissioner has just said. He referred to a number of texts on the definition of privacy and he referred to Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which guarantees the protection of privacy and family life. As the rapporteur on the Regulation on Access to Documents, I feel it only right to point out that in the judgment of 16 February 2000, the European Court of Human Rights confirmed its earlier case law, that it is data relating to the private life of an individual that falls within the scope of Article 8. The preamble to the Data Protection Convention and recitals to the Data Protection Directive also make clear that their purpose is to protect the fundamental right of privacy, not to restrict the information available to citizens about public activities. If the Commission pursues the line indicated tonight, it is on a collision course with Parliament. . – Mr President, in the light of the excellent vote of support for this report and given the Commission's response this morning, it is obvious – if you look at all the parts we have voted on – that under Rule 69(2) we should postpone the vote on the draft legislative resolution in order to allow us to enter into fruitful negotiations with the Commission and the Council. I hope the House will support that proposal. – Mr President, I wanted to point out an important matter of principle. I personally believe that it is nothing short of scandalous that we hear Members of this Parliament attacking the demonstration rather than looking at the solution to the problem, which is fair conditions, fair pay and fair hours. () – Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating Mr Santini, who I have been shadowing on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. It is a very good report. However, we have done ourselves some damage. As has been referred to, this will not be viewed easily or lightly accepted by the Council because we have wrongly broadened the scope. I agree absolutely with the principles within Mr Santini's report, but we have to be realistic on a consultation process on how to achieve those principles. This is particularly about cross-border disputes. If we make it include internal disputes, we create a great deal of problems not only for the Community but also for those Member States that will have to face the potentially huge legal bills that will follow. That is why I will recommend to the Socialist Group that we support the amendment by Baroness Ludford which reintroduces the notion that this refers specifically to cross-border disputes. I welcome the fact that the Brussels 1 Regulation will apply to these disputes on the mutual enforcement of civil law decisions. Equally, I accept that it should not cover proceedings relating to tax, customs or administrative matters. However, I should introduce one correction. It may have been a linguistic matter, but Mr Santini said that citizens will be judged irrespective of their financial positions. This is not true because there is an upper limit set within the directive. I welcome that the victims of crime will be guaranteed legal aid in order to get compensation. We agree that legal aid should cover both pre-litigation advice and representation in court. We also back the proposal to include within the scheme mechanisms for resolving disputes outside the courts. I will finish as I began by congratulating Mr Santini but by expressing regret that, by broadening the scope and going far beyond that which we can achieve in the House, we are actually urging the Council not to accept our recommendations. – Madam President, I agree with the Commissioner that this is about citizenship of the European Union and it is crucial for the facilitation of the free movement of our citizens. As you rightly say, Commissioner, everything else being equal, EU citizens should be able to move between Member States and the administrative burden should be reduced to that which is absolutely necessary. I welcome in this report the wider definition of 'family' and the importance given to the consideration of humanitarian grounds in the application of this directive. However, the wider definition of family will not be welcomed by all, and I do not share the UK Government's - my own Labour Government's - analysis of this directive. On the wider definition, we must examine our prejudice and our firmly held beliefs. This is about national citizenship and EU citizenship. We must move forward at a pace which must not be dictated by the Member State least likely to reform. The definition of 'spouse' may be clear according to the European Court of Justice, but it is up to us as legislators to redefine and to revisit definitions, especially in the light of modern family life and the diversity of durable and lasting relationships. On that point, I stand here in a same-sex relationship of 20 years, yet my partner of 20 years would not be given the definition of family if he were to move with me to Brussels so I can do my work in the Parliament. I am asked to pay the same taxes, to live by the same laws, but both I and my relationship - which cannot be recognised in the United Kingdom - are denied equality. So, we encourage people either to enter into honest, durable relationships, or we encourage them to enter into marriages of convenience which would drive a coach and horses through this directive and all of its intentions. This is either about the free movement of all of our citizens or it is not. Baroness Ludford is absolutely right. There should be a principle of mutual recognition here. I ask the PPE-DE Group to join with us, to explore the possibilities and reach a sensible compromise with the Council, recognising the modern world and affording equal rights to all of our citizens, not equal rights for some. . – Mr President, it is an honour for me to be standing in this chamber presenting what is not only my first report as an MEP but also a report that relates to a subject so close to my heart. I would like to express my sincere thanks to my co-rapporteur, Elizabeth Lynne, for her cooperation and constructive comments and extend that gratitude to all Members of the Article 13 Rapporteurs' Working Group. As rapporteur on the Action Programme to combat discrimination, I have tried to improve the Commission's text on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights. I should point out to Members that the Council working group agreed unanimously to recommend to the Council that the type of committee in the action programme should be modified to a mixed committee, a combination of the management and advisory procedures, thereby increasing the power of the individual Member States. The Council informed Parliament before the vote in committee, but only just before, deliberately ruling out any chance of further debate with myself or Parliament. As rapporteur I believe the original Commission proposals on the composition of the committee to be the best approach to achieving Parliament's and the programme's objectives. A politician can have no greater responsibility than to be given the opportunity to redress the wrongs so often visited upon minorities. I accept that responsibility eagerly, with a determination to ensure that this action programme to combat discrimination, not just in the EU but also in the candidate countries, is not the end of a noble process, but the beginning. For those of us comfortable and secure enough to fashion our own working and social environment, we can only begin to imagine the appalling, and sometimes life-threatening, discrimination which people face daily. Why does such discrimination exist? It is illogical, irrational and based on ignorance. It exists because good men and women do nothing or we begin to do something and never finish. We are partial in our approach and application. We favour certain minorities and groups, but not others. We become chastened by public opinion or the media. By being chastened, we create and confirm a hierarchy of oppression. Whilst compiling my report, I was sad to realise that some NGOs believe their continuation is more important than that of other groups. Only one NGO made the connection between its oppression and the oppression of all the groups cited in Article 13 and that was the UK-based Stonewall Group. That is why I, as a member of a minority, issue this stern warning that unless we recognise that discrimination against one group is discrimination against all we will achieve nothing except the proliferation of NGOs and other groups. No one group should advance at the expense of another. We must remember that we are dealing with real pain and suffering and real lives. Members may have received queries from NGOs on funding and specifically core funding. I understand their concerns, but I have assurances from the Commission that NGOs will still be able to bid for funds on this and other programmes and initiatives managed by the Commission. In my report, I have called for greater representation and involvement of NGOs, greater accountability to Parliament, the production of an annual report to be debated by Parliament, the highest possible degree of transparency, promotion of remembrance of the past in the fight against prejudice and the recognition of multiple discrimination. The EU does not have a good record on eradicating discrimination. Now is the time to do the job and it must be done with every fibre of our being. We can never buy off the bigots; we will only encourage them further. Imagine the world through the eyes of a child growing up in a world which discriminates against it because it is female, a member of an ethnic minority, disabled or a lesbian. We have so much to do for that child and for others. This is no time for the faint-hearted. If we lack the courage to end discrimination, than at least we must have the integrity and the decency to admit it exists. As politicians, we must have the courage to be unpopular in the short term to do what is right and just in the long term. I urge Parliament to support my report. – Mr President, first of all, should we hurry to forge closer bonds with Egypt, assuming that unanswered questions and miscarriages of justice will fade away and resolve themselves, before we have stopped and thoroughly examined what exactly is at the heart of the State i.e. the way it treats its citizens: the cases of fundamental human rights abuse, the 52 men put on trial for their homosexuality, for Egypt wanting "to protect order and its national values", the conviction of 23 of these men, the repression of Christians by Islamic extremists which is allowed to go unpunished, the case of Dr Saad El-din Ibrahim and other intellectuals imprisoned for having used funds that we, the European Union, gave them. Moreover, correspondence with the President of the People's Assembly of Egypt and the Ambassador in Brussels only seemed to underline Egypt's complacency on this matter and eagerness to fudge and gloss over the issues. Does Parliament condone violations of the right to a fair trial, freedom of expression, and freedom of association whether it be social, political, religious or sexual? For that is what we are saying if we gloss over the human rights issue. We must send out an unequivocal message that such blatant abuses of fundamental human rights cannot, must not, and will not be tolerated by the European Community. – Mr President, on a point of order, I made quite a serious allegation that there was an attempt to rewrite the regulation. That has not been addressed. I maintain that allegation in that both the Council and Commission have introduced a new mandatory and blanket exception on the basis of opinions or individual opinions. This is not contained in the regulation. I direct honourable Members to Article 4(3) – public interest disclosure. It has to be proven that such disclosure would undermine the institution's ability to function. – Mr President, as a rights holder in this sector, I will not be taking part in the vote. – Mr President, often in this House, we adopt many resolutions and we say many fine words. Now is a unique opportunity to influence the rights of those in Egypt whose human rights are diminished. We need to influence and improve the way Egypt operates in this field. We need to defer to give Egypt, a friend of the EU, time for reflection. Resolutions and words, albeit well-intentioned, seem to achieve little. Here is an opportunity for action. September 11 should have taught us that we must apply the same principles to our friends, as to our enemies. Egypt is a friend. We must give Egypt the time to reflect, because if we diminish the rights of individuals living in those countries, ultimately, we diminish our own human rights. I urge the House to support the motion. .– The British Labour Members of the Socialist Group have voted in favour of national choice as to whether Member States will "opt-in" or "opt-out" on the reception of unsolicited commercial e-mails (UCEs). This was the compromise reached in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. The revision of the e-commerce directive in 2003 will offer an opportunity to bring forward measures based on the experience of Member States which have opted in or opted out. It is essential that any new measures in the area of e-commerce are based on direct experience of all those involved within the industry including consumers. In the area of retention of traffic data, we believe that at second reading further amendments need to be considered. Mr President, I welcome this report, which is wonderfully comprehensive. The sad thing is that we have to have it at all. If only we lived in a world where we did not perpetually have to stand up and condemn the human rights abuses that occur throughout the world. Let me mention what is happening in Zanzibar, with its criminalisation and arrests of homosexuals, and where the EU has a mechanism through which it can act - the Cotonou Agreement - but does not seem to have the political will to do so. Similarly, when there have been breakdowns of the human rights clauses in our EU Association agreements and we have called for action, those calls have been ignored. Let me also mention Egypt, where there is continuing arrest, entrapment and imprisonment of homosexuals. I praise the Irish Presidency for its work at the UN in supporting the Brazilian motion on human rights and sexual orientation. Sadly, this motion has once again been suspended, due primarily to lobbying by Egypt and Pakistan, the Vatican and the Conference of Islamic States. We are talking here about human beings, about the destruction of individual freedom, individual hope and individual lives. The dignity of any society is based on respect for the dignity of those individuals. Finally, this report sends out a powerful message that what happens in another part of the world is as important to this House and the Member States as if it were happening in Europe. Human rights abuses against another individual are human rights abuses against us all. Mr President, I agree that the report as it stands is now admissible, but that is because changes were made that I and Parliament's services asked for and which the services upheld. – Mr President, I speak as a Member of the EU-Bulgaria Joint Parliamentary Committee and also as shadow rapporteur on Romania. I will try to be brief. On the issue of Bulgaria and Romania we need a target date, a focus. Therefore I fully support the proposed target date. Also, during a recent visit to Malta I saw the wonderful work being done in connection with sexual orientation. We must not leave that out of the equation when we look at the rights of minorities. It was clear to me from the work of the Malta gay rights movement that the employment industrial relations act is not compliant with the employment framework directive, especially in relation to sexual orientation. I welcome the positive statements on Turkey. As regards the negative statements on Turkey, I am afraid that, sadly, we have seen racism and xenophobia rear their ugly heads. We must apply the same terms, conditions and principles. We cannot be selective in the application of principles. The same principles must apply to all the candidate countries and also to the countries such as Turkey which have indicated that they wish to join the European Union. If we turn Turkey away, I believe that will be an action that we will live to regret. – Madam President, I want to raise an issue on the floor of the House which I am sure will be welcomed. I do so as the Labour Party spokesperson on Northern Ireland. The House would surely like to welcome the news on the peace process in Northern Ireland and the decommissioning of weapons. It serves as an example of what can be achieved through peaceful negotiation. Tribute must be given to those involved in the difficult times of the peace process and the ongoing negotiations. Mention must be made at the determination of those involved, including David Trimble, and not least a Member of this House, John Hume, who has fought for peace for over three decades. – First of all, may I also commend Mr Wuori for his wide-ranging report and Mr Cornillet for his boldness and his vision in trying to fashion a new procedure for the annual report on Fundamental Rights in the EU, linked to the Charter. In both reports, however, there is still cause for concern and alarm. The reality is that as we speak in this House, human rights abuses continue; human rights defenders disappear. In Vietnam, for example, religious persecution continues and Buddhist monks remain imprisoned and under repressive house arrest. Flung San Suu Kyi remains imprisoned in her home in Burma. The death penalty is still carried out in democracies such as the United States. In Belgrade, the police stand by and watch as hooligans attack lesbians and gay people at their gay pride celebration only days after millions of EU dollars were committed to that region and Milosevic was sent to The Hague. Egypt incarcerates 55 gay men who are still denied legal representation and now face up to eight years in prison because they are gay. Women are still genitally mutilated, human beings stoned to death, their limbs chopped off in the name of law. Homosexuals are stoned to death, there is religious persecution, and children are abducted into war, not to mention the obscenities of rape and terrorism, torture and false disappearances – a catalogue of almost unutterable suffering which grows year on year. In the EU, our own record on fundamental rights needs closer examination. The treatment of refugees and asylum-seekers; discrimination sometimes state-induced, against homosexuals; racism and racist murders; and inequality before the law. The same applies to applicant countries. The message we should send is that human rights are non-negotiable. So long as one individual or one group suffers discrimination, we have all failed and we are all culpable. A hierarchy of oppression is perpetuated by legislative inaction and democratic inaction. We defend some minorities but not others. When we name and shame countries, we are accused of imposing our standards. But the standards we aspire to and we set are international standards, standards by which we must all be judged. That is why we must be consistent in implementing human rights policy and systematically follow up human rights abuses. I commend the Cotonou Agreement, as mentioned by Commissioner Patten. We need to work closely with the United Nations and with the special rapporteurs as well as the NGOs. We must develop our own in-house expertise and ensure that men, women and children born equal are afforded their natural human rights and civil liberties. Our most powerful weapon is our imagination. Imagine, that is you being tortured, mutilated, imprisoned, stoned to death because you are different or hold a different opinion. Imagine that it happens to your daughter, your son, your father, your mother, your brother, your sister. That is the reality and that is why we need a new approach. We need it now. We must not fail those who look to us to succeed. – Mr President, on behalf of the one of the authors, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, I should like to express the total support of the PSE Group. It is vital that we remember the victims of the current increase in violence and call on the government to protect their rights: human rights, the right of freedom of association and freedom of belief. Equally we are concerned at the insecurity of the indigenous peoples and their eviction from the land where they work. We must also recognise and fight against the discrimination experienced by indigenous and peasant women. There must be a recognition of their work and their rights on the land and within the country. Furthermore, this House expresses with one voice its total support for the peace process in Guatemala. With peace we can rebuild communities and with rebuilt communities we can ensure that fundamental human rights are respected. . – I have the honour to present this report on a subject that is crucial to the lives of the people we represent and, indeed, to the future of the Union. My aim throughout the report has been to produce a proposal which is politically mature, eminently reasonable and practical for both the institutions and the citizen. I believe my report reflects that and the view of my fellow rapporteur, Mrs Maij-Weggen, to whom I pay special tribute. Let me stress that this is a legal text; it must be detailed and watertight. It is not an information pamphlet. That will come later. However, I regret that the report has been misrepresented by some for short-term political gain. A few cheap headlines, a few inches of print remove such people from reality. This report is even more urgent in light of the rules which were adopted by the Council in August, the so-called ‘Solana Decision’. My report specifically states that the August Decision should be repealed along with other decisions. What we are seeking is a change of culture. As a collection of 15 Member States we approach the issue of public access to documents differently, but I am glad to see that, largely, the European Parliament stands as a bulwark against the forces which seek to keep the doors of the institutions closed to the public. Access to documents and information regarding the activities of the institutions enables citizens to hold the EU governing bodies accountable and stimulates greater efficiency. I remain confident that, with the crucial input of Mrs Maij-Weggen, we have produced a mature and sensible text and introduced revolutionary changes for the institutions, but also real and tangible benefits for the European citizens. It is clear that Article 255 of the Treaty permits a broader interpretation of citizens' access to documents of the institutions, so allow me to outline some of the changes in my report. All the institutions and bodies covered by Article 255 should be expressly stated in the regulation and should include not only committees and working groups, but all agencies created by the institutions. All documents of the institutions should be public unless there is good reason why they should not be – based on a harm test and on a limited number of exceptions. These exceptions are discretionary, not as others would have you believe, mandatory. The term ‘document’ should be interpreted widely and must include internal documents of the institutions, although information documents, the ‘space to think’, can be excluded. As in the Commission proposal, a register of documents should be established. It should contain documents which are directly accessible. It should also include documents which are classified as ‘non public’ with the exception that applies. That way, the public knows of the documents and can challenge such classification. Furthermore, access to documents must be user-friendly via the Internet or traditional methods and there will be ongoing scrutiny – extremely important – of the new process and implementation by Parliament. I would like to clarify some other aspects. The classification system outlined in my report is intended to make the process of access to documents easier. An application for a document would challenge the application of the exception. At the time of the request for a document, the application of the exception must be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. What we must ensure is that the existing or future interinstitutional agreements, referred to in my report, have as their legal basis the Article 255 rule in order to ensure that a coherent framework is agreed between the institutions, with the maximum right of access for the citizen. Some Members have suggested that in my text I come too close to the Council and Commission view. In fact, the fundamental problems which the Council and Commission foresee with my report are, interestingly enough, the very same differences apparent between the majority of Parliament and some of the smaller groups in this House. Therefore, I urge the Council and Commission to embrace the change. The Union must move closer to the citizen. It must be more accountable and more transparent, especially as we approach enlargement. Together we must seize this opportunity and together solve the problems that it poses. I urge the House to support my report. () –The amendments are inadmissible on the following grounds: the objectives of the Fund do not include promoting large-scale inward investment. The Fund exists to promote urban and rural development, community development, to enhance skills and to improve the environment; the justifications cited in the Green amendments are spurious. The Fund has no role in the Raytheon project, nor could it have. The amendments simply seek to prevent the Fund from doing something which it could not do anyway; the purpose of the proposed Regulation is to permit the continuation of the financial contribution of the EU to the Fund; it does not in any way seek to amend the substance of the existing Regulation EC 2614/97, which is why the urgency procedure was agreed in the first place. On the matters of substance, the projects referred to in the Green justification are not military projects. Madam President, firstly I wish to tell Mr Monti that I will not be engaging in any personal attacks on him - he has an extremely difficult job. However, let me just say, in reaction to the previous speaker, that businesses just stop - they go out of business. That is the reality. We have to remind ourselves of what we are trying to address tonight, which is the reality of 110 000 jobs. The reality is that if you do not have a job, you cannot pay your bills or support yourself. This House needs to recognise that we must come together to create better social dialogue and a better awareness and social responsibility for those in employment. In the United Kingdom alone, 10 000 jobs rest with Alstom. We need to support Alstom. The uncertainty over the aid is not helpful. There are already concerns that plants in Washwood Heath (Birmingham), Rugby and Stafford face an unnecessary and uncertain future. We need to give them certainty and encourage development and investment. We are not doing that. We need flexibility of application in the rules on state aid. When we are dealing with huge social upheaval we must also look at the costs. I support this refinancing package, but it must not be at the expense of British workers and British jobs. There is real concern for those in the transmission and distribution businesses that their business is likely to be transferred to Arriva. There is real concern about the final salary pension schemes of those workers. We must give them some form of certainty. My big fear tonight is that we will conclude that Alstom  survive and get the support of the European Union. What we need to say is that Alstom  survive, and we must do everything possible to ensure that survival and protect those 110 000 jobs. We owe it to ourselves and to those people in those jobs. – Mr President, the Commission has argued that the right of access to documents and the right to privacy are both legitimate rights and that when they both enter into consideration, a balance has to be struck. However, the idea of striking a balance between them on a case-by-case basis whenever a name is mentioned misrepresents the nature both of dealing with openness in the public sector and the right to privacy. The principle of openness means that public bodies should take decisions as openly as possible and is now defined in the public access regulation. That regulation provides for exceptions to access. The point of this exception is that a public body may, in carrying out its public duties, come into possession of information about the private and family life of individuals. However, there is nothing in Article 286 of the EC Treaty or in the Data Protection Directive to suggest that data protection rules should be applied as a general principle of confidentiality in public administrations so as to require a public balancing exercise whenever a document mentions a name. Such an over-interpretation would damage not only the right of public access to documents, but also the genuine purpose of data protection and the performance of the duties of the Data Protection Supervisor. . I voted against the report because of the ongoing human rights abuses against homosexuals, intellectuals and religious minorities. – This is a perverse interpretation of ending discrimination. For instance, religious schools could quite properly say to a Roman Catholic for example: we do not want to employ you because you are a gay man or because you are a lesbian. Here we have from the Commission a reinforcement of a hierarchy of oppression. Surely what we should be doing, and I hope you will agree, Commissioner, is engaging the person to do the job on the basis of their capability, and we should not enshrine such bigotry and prejudice, no matter how sincerely held. – On a point of order, I really must protest. This is an extremely important debate. We adjourned it for the Commissioner to come here, and now we have other meetings taking place inside the Chamber. Quite frankly, this is unacceptable. – Madam President, I would like to inform the House that, as a substantial rightholder in the audio-visual sector, I have a direct financial interest in the issue before the House and will accordingly be abstaining throughout. Mr President, I shall not respond immediately to Mr Tannock, but will begin by stating dispassionately that the notion of human rights, including the right to a fair trial, is the highest priority for all the parliamentary groups. Terrorism and terrorist groups have won when the rule of law is set aside. Mr Camre, the rule of law is not an enemy, but the basis of a civilised society. When you discard it, you discard your civilised rights. One has to look at the charges brought against these individuals. If charges had been made, then they would have the right and the opportunity to defend themselves, but no charges have been made. Three of my constituents are amongst those about to be released. What of their families? What of their concerns? What of their human rights? I start, as I believe everyone in this House starts, from the notion that people are innocent until proven guilty. The two previous speakers would seem to accept the opposite. The calls made in this House are not anti-American. Indeed, we have asked the United States to uphold the rights of the free world which are at the heart of its own constitution. Here we come to the crux of the matter: the argument that somehow these people are outside US national jurisdiction. They are not, and it was on this basis that the Supreme Court petitioners called for the releases of detainees that we have seen recently. They should be subject either to US law or to the rule of international law: legal representation, a fair trial and the right of appeal. It is in exceptional circumstances that the unexceptional, normal and rational rule of law is most needed. Mr Camre, I cannot agree with you. You have denounced these people and even you will not give them a fair trial. We must never forget that 11 September altered the American psyche forever. Hence the actions that have been taken. This House has therefore chosen a noble route: not to condemn, nor to cast out those who have been detained – perhaps in horrific circumstances – but to ask quite simply that the rule of national or international law be upheld and fully respected. I, the PSE Group, the ELDR Group and other Groups will uphold those principles. It is a sad day when all the Members of this House cannot do the same. , . – In November last year, I presented my report on public access to the EU institutions' documents, a subject which, as I said then, I consider crucial to the lives of the people we represent and to the future of the Union. I am happy to say that I stand before you today to ask Parliament to endorse a compromise text, as this House requested of me in November 2000. I, Hanja Maij-Weggen, my ex-co-rapporteur, and all the draftsmen of opinions and some shadows for the other Committees embarked on a series of meetings with the Council and the Commission, latterly called trialogues, in order to reach this compromise. All the various versions of the compromise text during the trialogue processes were discussed in public meetings. Indeed, the trialogue process, it can be argued, has been more transparent than a conciliation process, in which only final texts of negotiations are published. The negotiations were not always easy and, contrary to what some believe, the distance between our institutions in January was great, but we fought hard to maintain what we considered to be essential elements to ensure the rights of the citizens. Of course the text does not go as far as we would have liked. I am the first to admit that, but it was a priority for me and my co-rapporteur Hanja Maij-Weggen to complete the dossier in line with the Treaty deadline, so that the institutions could not be accused of failing to deliver for the citizen under Article 232 of the Treaty. The standpoints of the three institutions were difficult to reconcile in such a short space of time and even the Council, under the wonderful Swedish Presidency, found it difficult to achieve a political consensus, or at least a qualified majority, within itself. Nonetheless, we have a text which improves on and consolidates the status quo and delivers to the citizen, within the time frame set in the Amsterdam Treaty, a comprehensive and practical framework for access to the institutions' documents. It is by no means a step backwards. We have established a self-evolving text which, I am sure, will be improved upon in the course of time. The compromise text revolutionises the rights and procedures for access to documents of the institutions and sets in motion the enshrining of freedom of information in the EU and in Member States' national legislation. It is the first common framework for the three institutions which recognises the citizen's rights so that the citizen no longer relies on the goodwill of each Institution. Access to documents regarding the activities of the institutions enables citizens to hold the EU governing bodies accountable, stimulates greater efficiency and enhances democracy. The text would not have been possible without the hard work and commitment of the Swedish Presidency. I would like to take this opportunity to also pay tribute to the remarkable work on this dossier that they have contributed and to that of my co-rapporteur, Mrs Maij-Weggen, and Graham Watson, Chair of the LIBE Committee. Of course there are some cases when documents from the institutions should not be released into the public domain. Indeed, it is part of our responsibility as deputies of this Parliament to protect the security of our citizens and the institutions. MEPs have a responsibility to ensure the vital interests of the Union are protected by improving its internal security, whilst at the same time balancing the citizens' rights of access. This new regime means that every document is considered on a case-by-case basis without blanket exceptions and documents concerning security and defence are by no means excluded from the Regulation. Under this compromise text, the Council is obliged to repeal or amend the Solana Decision of August 2000 so that it conforms to the principles of this Regulation. There is assumption in favour of access to the public for all documents in all areas of the Union's activities and access will only be denied to those in areas which directly relate to a listed exception. It has to be shown that such an exception is necessary and the disclosure would cause harm. The exceptions are therefore discretionary, not mandatory. If access is refused to the citizen, the citizen must be given the reason for refusal and there is recourse to the Ombudsman and the Court of Justice. Virtually all documents will be placed on a public register. Documents from third parties will be accessible for the first time and agencies or bodies created by the institutions will also apply the Regulation. If a document is excepted, or parts of the document are excepted, those parts of the document which are not excepted will be made public, and the exceptions will only apply for a limited maximum of thirty years, except in some cases. Finally, each Institution will produce an annual report outlining where the Institution refused access and the number of sensitive documents not recorded in the register, thus ensuring a continuing review by the European Parliament, and the Commission will also report by January 2004 on the implementation of the principles in the Regulation, thereby offering another opportunity to refine and develop access. Finally, this is not the end of the beginning. This is one small step on the road to access to documents and ensuring that the European Project is accountable to its citizens. .  Mr President, I wish to begin, unusually, by congratulating the institutions and all those who work within the institutions. It has become somewhat fashionable to attack the European Union project and its institutions. However, I want to pay a sincere tribute to those who work in the institutions and have made the registers and access to documents a reality. Today I looked at a briefing from an NGO which said that it was weary of congratulating institutions. That mystifies me absolutely. We need to congratulate where there is good work, and encourage good practice to spread across every department, DG and institution. Before I make some pertinent comments on the report, I want to pay tribute to my colleague, Mrs Maij-Weggen, who leaves this House this month. I have worked very closely with her on this report from its very beginning when we were working on Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001, and without her contribution we would not have this outstanding regulation. Let me begin with some items in my report. I do not intend to use my full five minutes. As a rapporteur, it is important to listen – something politicians are often accused of not doing! Let me raise some issues that need highlighting. We need to have greater and more succinct information on how our citizens can access this right to the information contained within the documents. We need common coding amongst the institutions so that the process of accessing information is simplified. In relation to the Commission at least, which has a number of registers, I would also welcome the establishment of a single register, even if it is only a single doorway into the other registers. We have yet again to reinforce the notion that we are making ourselves accessible to citizens, who may not know about this right or how to access it. I also want to talk about the case of exemptions. I wish to reinforce that there are no blanket exemptions on access to documents. Every request must be considered on a case-by-case basis. There have been some criticisms about the blanket refusal to give access to legal opinions. Where they fall within the legislative process there should not be a refusal, and, again, every request must be on a case-by-case basis. The European Parliament's committees – even the non-legislative committees – must apply the principle of transparency and at present the standard of transparency is not uniform from one committee to another. There are a number of sensitive documents which have not been registered with the institutions. This needs to be reviewed. I welcome Mrs Maij-Weggen's opinion and recommendations and, in particular, her view that the European Ombudsman should give an assessment of the regulation: how it is working and how the exemptions are applied. We need a common methodology to be applied by each of the institutions and the agencies – we must not forget that the agencies and organisations set up by the institutions must apply the regulation. They should use a common approach in assessing their annual reports, and then comparison will become fruitful and productive. Everything I have said may imply that there is much to do. Of course there is, because we aspire within the European Union to perhaps defy our critics, to prove them wrong, to connect with our citizens and to prove that the European Union project is one that we should be proud of and should celebrate. We have not got it right. Sadly, perfection often eludes us in human endeavours, whether by politicians or anyone else. However, our commitment to try is there within Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 and in the spirit of those people who have worked to make access a reality. – Thank you, Mr Prodi. From my accent I am sure you will not be surprised by my question. We in Britain have complied with the beef ban. The beef ban has been lifted and now the unilateral action of one Member State is undermining, certainly in Britain, the whole spirit of the European Union project. In my region, the West Midlands of Great Britain, there are farmers who have very little left to live on. Will you please act urgently to bring pressure to stop this unilateral beef ban by the French? – Thank you very much. I do not think you read the question – it said what action will be taken? We know what has to be done, but it is no use standing there saying that until the Commission acts or until Parliament acts, you will do nothing. Such inaction actually endorses these attacks upon minorities. Therefore, I offer you another chance to answer: will the Council undertake an audit of Member States to establish those states which have discriminatory legislation against lesbians and gay men, which fail to offer equal rights, equal civil rights to lesbians and gay men and which fail to offer equal protection under the law to lesbians and gay men? Only when we have determined this can we begin the process of implementing Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam. The talking has to stop. The excuses have to end. We must act and act swiftly or else this House and all its institutions will always be held in low regard. . – Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking Mrs Maij-Weggen for her comments. I have heartily enjoyed the way we have worked together on this and I am pleased to say that the work in her report represents our joint work. I also accept what she has said on the amendments. Before I speak further, I should like the services to rule whether Amendment No 17 from the Green Group is admissible, because it seeks to rewrite the regulation. It calls on Parliament to adopt criteria for the definition of sensitive information and documents. Now the definition of sensitive documents is contained in the regulation, Article 9, reference to Article 4(1)(a). I should again like to thank Mrs Maij-Weggen for her consistent approach to transparency and openness. It is absolutely right that we adopt changes to our Rules of Procedure so that we not only conform to the regulation on access to documents but can also begin to be held accountable by the citizens whom we purport to represent. Therefore, now that Commissioner Barnier is here, it is important for me to refer to some of my concerns about the entry into force of this regulation on 3 December 2001. When the regulation enters into force, the citizen's right of access to institution documents will no longer be a discretionary concession but a fundamental right, rooted in Article 255. As no other legal basis on access to documents is provided in the Treaty, the regulation on Article 255 will be the framework for all other secondary legislation and for the internal rules of the institutions, which should be in conformity with it. The Commission, therefore, has the responsibility to present formal proposals to repeal or amend secondary legislation which is not coherent with the principles and limits defined in Article 18(3) of the regulation. This is extremely important if we are to bring this regulation into force. Similarly, on the wider definition of institutions and the bodies and agencies, the Commission is mandated by Recital 8 and by the joint statement to review the rules of agencies and, where necessary to propose amendments as soon as possible. On the matter of the Interinstitutional Committee – and all of these points are relevant if we are ourselves adopting changes to the Rules of Procedure – the Council presidency has said that it believes the Interinstitutional Committee should operate at secretary-general level. This differs from the opinion of President Prodi and of Parliament. Though I hesitate to say this, it is nonsense to suggest that secretaries-general should sit in this Interinstitutional Committee. The whole point of political presence is political accountability. Finally, Mrs Maij-Weggen has done an excellent job on this and now is the time for the Commission to ensure that the Treaty is respected and that the regulations flowing therefrom are brought before Parliament. – Mr President, I would like to start with the fact that if words could solve the problems we could all pack up and go home. But unfortunately, as we speak today in the safety of this Chamber, human rights abuses are occurring throughout the free world. Sometimes the more we speak, the less we hear – motions: words; conventions: words; treaties: words – if we are not careful, words themselves become a substitute for real action. Words framed in inclusive and liberating documents become treaties and conventions which are often paraded as a testimony to a country's respect for and adherence to human rights. Yet words spoken, written or signed are not in themselves enough. Look at the signatories to the conventions on human rights and minorities and then compare the treatment received by such minorities, groups and individuals – the list is shameful and shaming. Can anyone argue with any persuasiveness that women are treated equally and fairly, that children have human rights or that people are not discriminated against because of their religion, belief, gender, disability, age, sexual orientation, opinion, political affiliation etc? The defamation of minorities in newspapers and other media fuels discrimination. Even within the EU citizens still suffer human rights violations and a breach of our conventions. Every day in the press misinformation and misrepresentation are used to deny some minorities equality before the law and to denigrate ethnic minorities. Quite frankly a hierarchy of oppression has been created. And so long as people do not have equality before the law, this inequality will lead to discrimination and human rights will be eroded. In our enlargement process in the EU we have rightly placed the emphasis on human rights and the protection of minorities. We must not waiver in that commitment. But we must also hold up the mirror to ourselves and recognise our own inadequacies. Yes, conventions have been signed, but action is needed. I would recommend to you ongoing audits of human rights practices, eternal vigilance, not just outside our borders but within. That is why I would welcome an annual Member State report from each individual state which would have to record any charges against it and the action taken. Because what happens in each Member State happens to every single one of us. What happens in another part of the world affects us. Pinochet in Chile is as relevant as Haider in Austria. Human rights and civil liberties are inextricably linked. Human rights do not exist in isolation, they are connected to our development policies, our economic policies, our home affairs policies, indeed they are at the very heart of our democratic functions. I would repeat what Mr Patten said: we must engage, we must inform, educate and thereby effect real and lasting change. .  Mr President, I believe it would be right to correct the record as regards Mr Titford's contribution. I would point out to him that the report is about the adoption of measures concerning the repatriation of mortal remains. It is about barriers to movement rather than the conditions of the corpse. I want the principle to be accepted. Mr Titford could, at any time, have suggested amendments to me. Despite discussions in Strasbourg on my report, he subsequently offered no amendments. I am deeply saddened. I always deal honestly and openly with all my colleagues, but he flattered me privately and failed to act publicly. I need to correct the record in this regard. – Mr President, first of all, as Socialist rapporteur for the report on Romania, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report. I believe that Romania has embraced the challenge of a transition to an open democratic market economy. It has successfully embraced reforms which are essential to secure a more prosperous and safer future. As both the Commission report and Baroness Nicholson's report acknowledges, some progress has been made in improving conditions for some minorities. Romania has ratified major human rights conventions such as the European Convention on Human Rights and the revised European Social Charter. But ratification is not enough. What matters most is implementation of the rights contained in those conventions. I also believe that the Commission wrongly defines minority rights solely in terms of the Roma and Hungarian communities. The rights of these minorities are essential to a free, open, democratic and European Romania, but I am also particularly concerned about the rights of other minorities such as the groups listed in Article 13 of the TEU: those who suffer from discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religious belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. Laws do not in themselves solve the problems. Indeed, the Romanian Upper House refuses to act on removing homosexuality from the penal code. This is nothing short of scandalous. Blatant discrimination occurs in other countries such as Poland and Malta. In Poland recently, the former President, Lech Walensa, told a campaign rally, 'I believe these people (gays) need medical treatment. Imagine if they were all like that! We would not have any descendants.' That is as ignorant as it is misinformed and we must make every effort to ensure that when we look at the accession countries human rights and the treatment of the minorities are at the top of the agenda. – I would like to inform Commissioner Patten that it was not the intention of the House this evening to reject the association agreement but to defer it. As to lectures in human rights, we all – regardless of our record – need to be lectured on human rights. – Mr President, as co-rapporteur on the report on access to documents, I should like to echo Mrs Maij-Weggen's words. We have a modest beginning but we are sending the signal that transparency and accountability are the only ways in which to connect the citizen to the European project. I should like to compliment the staff who have worked tirelessly to do this. It is a reminder to this House that without the commitment of the staff and the services we would achieve nothing. – Mr President, in relation to the previous debate I am not interested in clear replies from the Commission. I want clear replies from the governments who are actually indicted in these resolutions before this House this afternoon. If these governments, including the Egyptian Government, do not take human rights seriously then we must take further action, if necessary suspending any agreements that we have with them. The appalling onslaught against minorities in Egypt is terrifying to behold. People are being entrapped on the Internet because of their homosexuality. Let me refer to one individual, because this is what human rights are about: the rights of individuals. We in this House standing here, talking, debating, take everything for granted, yet these people, because of their difference, have everything robbed from them. Do we listen? No. Some of us talk on, whilst others call for tolerance. A young man, Wissam Abyad, was entrapped on the Internet. He went with a friend to meet a supposed gay man. He was arrested, along with his friend. He is now in prison. He is awaiting appeal. I call for his sentence to be suspended immediately, because that is this man's only way out. The cases of two more men out of the 52 who were arrested over a year ago were not reviewed. They are undergoing not forced labour, but hard labour. As to the three British men awaiting trial in Egypt and the allegations of torture that they have made, have their cases been independently investigated? Of course not. I say this to Egypt, and I say it as a friend: the litmus test of any civilised society is how it treats its minorities. It is for Egypt to show us here in this House, that it takes the rights of their minorities seriously, to call for an end to discrimination against those minorities and to release from prison and end immediately the investigations and the arrests of gay men throughout Egypt which worry us here in this House. . The British Labour Members voted against paragraph 53. We do not accept the criticisms and overall content of this paragraph. Nonetheless, we voted in favour of the resolution with our reservation, due to the importance of this timely report. – Mr President, this joint motion for a resolution on the ratification of the Rome Treaty to establish the permanent International Criminal Court comes at an opportune moment. Only yesterday in this House we debated our priorities for the United Nations Human Rights Commission in Geneva. The Swedish prime minister once again reiterated the importance of human rights during the Swedish Presidency. The discussion this afternoon is yet another vivid reminder of injustices around the world. Therefore it must follow, and I hope the House will agree, that if we are serious about the human rights of men, women and children, then we must have a permanent International Criminal Court to prosecute those who carry out or commission crimes against humanity. We need a criminal court with international jurisdiction, which can independently judge those accused of such atrocities. Only with complete determination to implement the Rome Treaty will we be able to end the impunity of the perpetrators of these crimes and contribute to the deterrence and prevention of such crimes in the future. As we have heard, 139 governments have signed the Rome Treaty yet sadly only 27 have ratified it. Sixty such ratifications are needed for the Treaty to enter into force and for the Court to be set up. Therefore I believe it is imperative that the Member States set an example. Already Italy, France, Belgium, Luxembourg, Spain, Germany, Austria and Finland have notably and honourably ratified the Treaty. It is now time for the remaining Member States of the Union to follow suit. Cynicism is an easy option and I will not indulge in it. I believe we should welcome the signing of the Treaty on 31 December by the United States of America and we should also welcome the Yugoslav Federation signing the Treaty on 19 December 2000. We must now call upon those parliaments to ratify the Treaty. Nonetheless, at the same time we must urge all states to continue to support the work of the International Criminal Tribunals for Rwanda and former Yugoslavia. History teaches us that we must never forget. Therefore, look back across the last millennium. Look now across the world as it is and remember that the price of freedom is eternal vigilance. Future generations will never forgive us if we turn our minds away from those who have suffered such terrifying atrocities and who continue to suffer as I speak. Words are not enough. The time for action is now. Sign the Rome Treaty on the ICC and thereby signal our commitment and our challenge to the rest of the world. As co-author I urge the House and the Council to support this motion. – Mr President, I speak on behalf of a constituent of mine, Dr Lesley McCulloch, a British academic, who is currently held in police detention in Indonesia along with a US national, Joy Lee Sadler. Dr McCulloch was detained on 10 September at a military checkpoint in Aceh, Indonesia, held for six days, and allegedly physically and sexually assaulted. Subsequently she was transferred to police custody and on 16 September charged with misusing a tourist visa by conducting research. The military are unhappy with her work on corrupt military business practices. She has had two consular visits – on 17 and 25 September – and some conditions have improved. However, both women are in poor health. One is HIV positive. They may be sent to a military hospital. Their lives may be in danger. A date has not yet been set for trial but over two months have elapsed. I urge you to write to the Indonesian President and the authorities expressing our deep concern, asking that these women be treated fairly and any charges dealt with quickly. *** Mr President, I will accept the House's wisdom on behalf of my group, as I think it would be a long, drawn-out process to refer the report back to the legal services. Madam President, I merely wish to correct something Commissioner Monti said. He is right that I referred to the 10 000 jobs in the United Kingdom and specifically those in my constituency, Birmingham, Rugby and Stafford. However, the record will show that I said we had a care of duty - a responsibility - to the 110 000 jobs. Therefore, whilst I recognise that I looked at the British consequences, I am extremely concerned about the effects on those jobs across Europe. – Mr President, first of all let me remind both the Council and Commission that the purpose of the regulation is: "to give the fullest possible effect to the right of public access to documents and to lay down the general principles and limits on such access". When looking at the Council and Commission decisions, I see an attempt to rewrite the regulation, in particular references to it in Article 9 of the Commission decision – documents which do not reflect opinions or individual opinions will not be made available. The same applies to Article 11 of the Council decision. I should like to remind both the Council and Commission that a restriction on access to documents can only refer to the exemptions listed in Article 4 and Article 9, which in turn relate back to Article 4. Equally, in the Commission's proposals, third country nationals are denied the right of complaint to the European Ombudsman – again, a violation of the spirit of the regulation. Under delegated powers the Commission believes it will not make legislative papers available until adoption of the final text. I would remind the House and the Commission that 90% of some 5 000 legislative acts adopted every year in the Union are under delegated powers. The Council has widened access to some of its internal documents, but maintains confidentiality on Member State demands on national delegations and national positions. Why is it that six months after the regulation entered into force, no information campaign has been launched by the institutions? Why? When are we going to have the Commission's proposals on amending secondary legislation? Has the Commission adopted security rules? If so, can it publish them according to the regulations? When will Parliament adopt its own security rules? I am extremely worried that if someone were now to approach and gain access via either the Commission's decision or the Council's decision we would see a violation of the regulation. Furthermore, I should like to echo Mrs Maij-Weggen's very important point. It is not acceptable that we should have secretaries-general representing politicians in this interinstitutional committee. Politicians must be accountable and responsible for their decisions. – Mr President, it is always sad to talk about human rights abuses because we in the EU take for granted the universal rights that we exercise day in, day out. The case of Dr Ibrahim is deeply worrying because it is part of a trend that we see increasing in Egypt. Yet Egypt – as we have heard from Mr Posselt – is a friend and ally. Therefore I urge the Commissioner on his visit to Egypt to raise at the highest level with President Mubarak the case of Dr Ibrahim and his colleagues. He should be released immediately. There should be a fair appeal process. I equally urge him to raise the case of the 'Cairo 52', who are also undergoing a retrial, and of the four British men held pending trial in Cairo at this moment. We are friends of Egypt. We must encourage dialogue. When dialogue fails, we must bring forward sanctions. – Mr President, it is very easy to react on emotion but this House should not react on emotion, it should react on facts. That is why I cannot support this report. I believe it to be highly selective and deeply flawed. It fails to give a balanced assessment. The quotes used in the report are highly selective and outside the context, and therefore fail to give a fair summary of the legal situation. There are errors of fact, for example relating to the Lloyd's accounting system. Closed accounts do not, as is suggested, come back to life. Rather, as with all insurance, claims are made against a policy after it has ended. The report states that directives have not been implemented. This is an opinion. It has not been proven. Also, the report does not detail the substantial efforts made by Lloyd's to alleviate the Names' losses. But there were also problems within the Committee on Petitions. I repeatedly pointed out that the way Mr Perry was trying to set up a committee of inquiry was not the correct way, was against the Rules of Procedure and, indeed, the Treaties. Sir Nigel Sheinwald did not seek to block an inquiry, but pointed out quite rightly, that any inquiry should be within the Rules of Procedure and indeed our Treaties. Let me quote the relevant section of his letter. He believes that 'they do not permit a committee of inquiry to be established where the alleged facts are being examined before a court and while the case is still subject to legal proceedings'. As we have heard from the Commissioner, there is now a case before the Appeal Court of the United Kingdom, and it is right that we should be very careful and considered before we set up a committee of inquiry. Again, Mr Perry has used comments and quotes from the Jaffrey case in the Court of Appeal selectively. I could go on and on, but let me reassure Mr Perry. The PSE Group will vote in favour of his amendments. I believe his amendments actually tie up some of the problems that we have been dealing with. Indeed I am pleased that at my suggestion Parliament's services have called for other changes and, in particular, the deletion of Mr Perry's insistence in paragraph 5 that his explanatory statement should be incorporated into the resolution. These are just some concrete examples of changes that had to be made to a deeply flawed report. I will finish on this. If, in this Parliament, we raise expectations for citizens and petitioners that we cannot meet, we do so at our peril. Mr Perry's process throughout has been genuine and sincere, but I believe he is raising expectations that cannot be met. He is demanding documents that he knows cannot be supplied. I am the author of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001. Mr Perry is making demands of the Commission for an inquiry which he knows the Commission cannot make. Finally, the PSE Group will support this but, in all honesty I have to say to the House, with my hand on my heart, I cannot support this report and therefore I will not. . – Mr President, first of all I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work that he has done, especially in watering down his initial proposals in order to achieve consensus, something that always creates momentum for reform in this House. That is exactly what we need, a momentum behind the reform so that we achieve it rather than just talking about it. I hope that the entire House will support the compromise amendments that he has agreed with various groups within the House. Of course, the amendments the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms placed before the committee responsible did not receive universal support. Nonetheless we were dealing with the Member States' possibility of making legislative proposals under Article 67 of the EC Treaty and the developments and gaps in that practice. We are similarly looking at the category of amendments that relate to responsibility of the committee in relation to the respect for fundamental rights in the EU. Although, as I said, our opinion was not carried in its entirety, I nonetheless will support and will urge others to support, the rapporteur. Let me add a note of caution, this revision does not refer to the interinstitutional agreement on confidential information and sensitive documents, known as the Brok Agreement, which is still under negotiation with the Council. I must urge the House to think very carefully before accepting the so-called Brok Framework Agreement, because it puts Parliament at a great disadvantage compared to any of the other institutions. It actually gives ordinary members of the public a greater right of access to sensitive documents in that any request must be duly considered. Under these proposals, Parliament is in an imbalanced situation in that we have no right to initiate access to confidential documents. With those caveats and those warnings, I urge the House to totally support the rapporteur's proposals. – Mr President, of course this resolution speaks for itself. It is an appalling litany of crimes against humanity. President Mugabe is bereft of principles, devoid of any sense of justice, his regime sinks to unimagined levels as each day passes. He has no respect for human rights, minority rights, international law or international opinion. He is a vile despot and we must cease all links with him and his regime. As Mr Van Orden said, we must hit Mr Mugabe and his regime where it matters most, i.e. in the pocket. There must be an end to international trade and effective freezing of the bank accounts of Mr Mugabe and his entourage. Further financial and targeted sanctions must be vigorously imposed. At the same time, we must aid and support those African states which take similar punitive actions against the Mugabe regime. The great sadness in all of this is the effect it is having on the citizens of Zimbabwe, whose only crime is to have Mr Mugabe as their president. Let us target Mr Mugabe, not the citizens of Zimbabwe, and let us ensure that our actions are effective and not merely international window-dressing. – Mr President, I want to deal with two issues; one is data retention and the other is opt-in, opt-out. First of all, opt-in, opt-out. I have to say, it is absolutely appalling, in any arena of politics, to set expectations which cannot be met. The whole idea of opt-in has been put forward as the solution to end spam. Let me put this on the record. The Commission's proposals on opt-in will not stop one iota of spam whatsoever. Spammers do not abide by laws or regulations. They operate offshore and if we want to drive SMEs, the so-called engine of the new economy, out of the EU, then this is the way to do it. On the issue of data retention, Groucho Marx has been referred to tonight. Actually, there were three brothers and the contributions I have heard tonight lead me to believe that the three brothers Groucho, Chico and Harpo are present. The whole deletion of this article on data retention which is now being called for was never, ever called for in committee. What is this idea that it is a stitch-up, that groups come together to reach a compromise that ill serves the civil liberties of ordinary men and women? Civil liberties, let us remind ourselves, need protecting from the international terrorists who operate cross-border terrorism, drug-trafficking, transnational crime, the trafficking of women and children. These are the civil liberties that we seek to protect with these proper, balanced data retention rules that are in the proposals before Parliament. I hope Parliament does the sensible thing, which is to vote in favour of the data retention proposals. We must respect the civil liberties of our citizens, and we do, but equally, we must not allow those who operate across our borders to abuse civil liberties to promote their crimes. I could say a lot more, but thankfully my time is up. – Mr President, Mr Nassauer is absolutely right. There has been some progress, but quite frankly that progress is not enough. We are talking about fundamental and universal human rights. I stand here as an atheist, but defend the right to freedom of religion, freedom of belief, freedom of association and the freedom to exchange ideas. What do we have to fear from people who have different ideas or different beliefs from us? We must call upon the Vietnamese Government to do what is absolutely right, which is to respect universal human rights and release prisoners of conscience, to stop detentions and to allow journalists to go about their business, which is to report and criticise. Let me refer to what was said by my colleagues Mr Mann and Mr Casaca with reference to the cooperation agreements and our association agreements. We have to enforce these human rights clauses otherwise we will never be taken seriously by the international community. We must state clearly that these are our standards and our principles, and that they are non-negotiable. – Mr President, first of all, I start from the premise that information equals power; and, quite frankly, we need to empower our citizens. Let me also congratulate Mr Andreasen on an excellent and innovative report, looking at the problems, but, I believe, bringing fresh and new solutions. May I thank him for his support and may I also thank the LIBE Committee for its support for my opinion which it voted upon and adopted unanimously. It is a sad reflection for me that I did not gain that same support from my own Group within the Culture Committee, for various reasons which I hope will become obvious at some point in the debate. Let me turn to Mr Andreasen's report. The implementation of existing policies and future development of the European Union needs to be based on active and informed participation of its citizens. I particularly welcome moves to coordinate the information activities of the institutions and as far as possible provide information in a one-stop shop so that it is not necessary for citizens to understand the institutional structure of the Union in order to obtain the information they require. Another key aspect of information policy of the EU institutions is access to documents, and as I repeatedly noted in connection with the adoption of Regulation No 1049/2001 on public access to documents of the institutions, documents – and I stress this – cannot be separated from the information contained in them. It therefore follows that the information and communication policy of the institutions should be coordinated with the activities for the implementation of the aforementioned Regulation. It is therefore sad that we fail to grasp the political opportunity to have the interinstitutional group on information which is responsible for cooperation on information activities working and taking on board the activities in Article 15 of Regulation 1049/2001. I hope we will revisit this and take this wonderful opportunity to combine the information policies, transparency and access to documents. – Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Howitt for their excellent work and the Commission for their proposals. It is essential that we take advantage of the opportunity that is represented in the Commission's proposals on the whole of Article 13. The time is right to do so. In recent years we have witnessed across Europe a steady rise in racist crime, violence, discrimination and, it pains me to say, ‘political rhetoric’ which plays on racial discrimination. I feel a heightened sense of urgency as we contemplate and embark upon the enlargement process. That is why this debate is so important because it strikes at the heart of how we define Europe and ourselves as Europeans. We are more than a trading block. We are a group of nations based on a set of values – a set of ideals which must be incorporated and reinforced in all that we do. I hope that this approach will be addressed when we look at the situation effecting all minorities. The price if we do not is a Europe falling far short of its true potential. That is why this directive and the Article 13 package, as a whole, are so significant. They demonstrate that the Member States, Parliament and the Commission are serious about the long-term eradication of discrimination and racism. It is not perfect. It does not fulfil my every ambition, yet it represents a start to a fight against racism in Europe, in our nations, our regions and, more importantly, in our communities. One day I hope to be standing in this Chamber debating directives which will aim to eradicate discrimination specifically based on, for example, disability, age and sexual orientation. These current steps must be applauded but there is still a long way to go. Finally, the spectacle of a white middle-class British male Tory giving a lecture on discrimination and the effects of discrimination would be laughable if it was not so damning and lamentable. Ultimately, discrimination kills and it blights the souls of those who practice it and those who encourage it. – Mr President, I would like to speak in favour of this request. This is a highly contentious issue. I quite rightly asked DG I to look at the report as it was voted in committee to see if it was legally admissible in the way it set up and called for a committee of inquiry. Subsequently, changes were introduced to satisfy DG I. However, it came to my notice that other changes were introduced into paragraph 4, which bring about a profound change which is not in compliance with the request made by DG I. There is a very lengthy legal opinion. Even with the changes that Mr Perry wishes to make, recitals N and V, according to paragraph 26 of the legal opinion, are still not legally admissible. Therefore, rather than open up a debate here, and given the technical nature of this report, I recommend that your services look at the report as it is tabled – which brings in Mr Perry's explanatory statement, explicitly referred to in paragraph 5 – so that you can rule whether, as it currently stands, it is legally admissible. Furthermore, and in conclusion, it is vital that the report that comes to the House accurately reflects what we voted on in committee. I am afraid as it stands this report does not do so. – Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his attendance at such a late hour. We have heard a reference to abduction, but of course abduction takes many forms and can be subtle. Mrs Banotti has raised the issue of a constituent of mine, Mr Guy Foster; and allow me to summarise the case because it concerns real human lives. Mr Foster has been denied access to his child ever since his German wife returned to Germany with the child following their divorce. The agreement was for the mother to have the right of abode over the son and for Mr Foster to have full visiting rights. However, once in Germany, the mother neglected the child and spent time in psychiatric care, and the child was subsequently placed in the care of its maternal grandmother. Despite Mr Foster's persistent attempts to contact his son, he has been cut off from him ever since, unable to speak with or visit him because the mother and maternal grandparents have withheld information. A court made a decision on this case, but he was given information about the court appearance after the date. Documents were served in a foreign language. The handing over of care to the grandmother was thus allowed to proceed without Mr Foster being able to represent his views. I believe he has been denied and is still being denied the fundamental right to see this child and has been denied access to justice. This is surely wrong in the eyes of those of us who believe that we should always serve the best long-term interests of the child. Mrs Gebhardt referred to two key words: help and enable. We are fifteen different Member States with different languages and different cultures, but we must never use language as a means of excluding people from the debate or denying them their rights. Therefore, I urge the Commission to take action, to be imaginative at Community level and at Member State level to ensure mutual recognition and judicial cooperation, and to put an end to these tragic human cases, which have consequences beyond our own time. Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr van den Bos on his report, but may I state quite categorically that, in addition to freedom of religion, we must be equally committed to freedom of conscience and the freedom, as Mr Gahler said, not to follow any religion. We must remember that over the centuries and, indeed, even now many atrocities are carried out in the name of religion. Fundamentalism and intolerance are growing threats. That is why the role of human rights defenders in the world is vital. We must do all we can to protect them and humanitarian aid workers around the world. That is why we must remind ourselves of the appalling attack in Baghdad on the UN mission, express our deep condolences to the families of those who have been killed and injured and note the appalling, tragic and untimely death of Mr Sergio Vieira de Mello, an outstanding human rights defender. We must defend freedom of thought and freedom of conscience. And what of our relations with third countries? We should say yes to dialogue, but action must follow from that dialogue. We have increasing numbers of death sentences in countries with which we have close relations. That is why we need an end to the death sentence. With our association agreements – Egypt and Israel spring to mind – if we do nothing, we condone human rights abuses. What use are our agreements, in particular the human rights clauses, if we do not enforce them? In Egypt homosexuals are being entrapped on the Internet and incarcerated for no other reason but that they are homosexual: this is appalling. We must defend freedom of the press, the rights and freedoms of the child, the rights and freedoms of homosexuals, of minorities, the rights of women, ethnic minorities, the rights of refugees, and, yes, unfashionably, those seeking asylum. Let me make a special reference to Aung San Suu Kyi, now on hunger strike in Burma. We must do all we can to release from detention this brave and honourable woman. We must respect also the human rights of disabled people, included in our report for the first time. I shall finish by saying that the Council, Commission and Parliament must speak with one voice. Our message is clear: these are our values. If you support them we will engage with you. If you do not, we will pursue this agenda until human rights are totally and finally respected. – Mr President, first of all let me say to the House that when we, as politicians, begin to trade insults on the issue of war in another place, we lose our purpose which is to drive forward the peace, and that must be our ultimate goal. Mr Dupuis has spoken of atrocities which I find horrifying, because these atrocities are happening to real people; to grandmothers, grandfathers, mothers, daughters, fathers and sons for no reason other than that they are different. I do not hold to the cosiness of the view that Russia is doing all that it should, or that it is deeply concerned. After all we were told that, post-September 11, the world had changed, that fundamental human rights would be scrutinised with more vigour than before. However, in the case of Chechnya, this is clearly not the case. The rights of the Chechens, of whom 200 000 are living in direct danger and fear, are being ignored by the Russians. Moreover, I believe, the situation is getting worse rather than better. It seems that September 11 has been a catalyst for a cosy relationship between Russia and the US, in which the US turns its eye the other way. I welcome this resolution but we must drive it forward. Why have our actions lacked punch up until now? I will tell you why; because there has been a lack of co-ordinated and consistent international approach for fear of offending Mr Putin and allies. Atrocities grow, they do not diminish. Conflict goes on for years. It is an ongoing war that has been almost unnoticed. Yet we see the denial of human rights, the denial of the right of humanitarian NGOs to operate effectively on the ground. We need more co-operation with the Russian authorities and the independent media to report the truth to the outside world. But let us never forget that the fundamental right is to live in peace without fear of persecution. We need a political resolution, but Russia must be held to account. Let me finish with this: When war begins, politicians have failed. When wars continue, humanity loses its purpose. This war must end. The peace process is not an option; it is the only way forward. – Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the comments of Mr Ceyhun, and the excellent and formidable contribution of Mr Nordmann. There is a whiff of hypocrisy when this House turns to look at Turkey: I do not see the same approach and the same attitude to the other accession and candidate countries. I would put to the honourable Members here today that if the same criteria had been applied, the histories of some of the current Member States would have disbarred them from membership of the European Union. What we have to send today is a message that we are consistent in the application of our principle. We have to support the reformers, we have to encourage change; or we do the reverse, we discourage the reformers, bring about the growth of fundamentalism and shut the door on Turkey forever. I am pleased at the comments from the Commissioner. A lot has been achieved, the reforms are impressive and it is right that we should acknowledge that. The President-in-Office of the Council said there are two priority areas. My priority areas are these: to encourage reform and to accelerate the process of reform. The perception in Turkey (I was there ten days ago), amongst politicians and ordinary men and women, is that the European Union does not want Turkey to join. Sadly, in this debate that prejudice, I feel, has been reinforced. – Mr President, unusually for me I can stand here and say that virtually everything has been said. I agree with Mr von Boetticher and Mr Cappato and especially with Baroness Ludford. We are all members of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs; we have adopted a position and we have not rushed into it just because we have been bullied and lobbied on the Internet and via the fax machines that are in all our offices. We have to be very careful about legislating on the hoof. I have to say to the Commission that what it is proposing is wrong and hurried. In 2003 we will have a very good opportunity, in the e-commerce directive, to gather the information and the wisdom obtained from those Member States which have chosen either to opt in or to opt out. We must only propose and adopt legislation on the basis of good counsel and good experience. We must never underestimate the civil liberties implications to which Baroness Ludford has rightly alerted this House. At this time, when we perhaps are being a little over-assertive with some of the legislation we are bringing forward, I do not want anyone to have to confirm why they have opted to receive, for instance,  or why they have chosen to get some information from Amnesty International. The Internet has freed people from dictatorships and oppressors, and yet here we are introducing a kind of censorship by the back door. It is wrong and ill-informed. The Commissioner may shake his head and smile, but does he want to have to explain to a government agency or some other agency why he has chosen to opt in? That is not freedom: that is being answerable for using a service that is intended to free you. On the issue of the right of privacy: we all have the right of privacy, but that right cannot be imposed on individuals. Individuals choose the right of privacy and then legislation backs it up. On the matter of unsolicited commercial e-mail: not all UCE is spam. Here again the Commission has played right into the hands of those who want to drive jobs out of the EU and who pretend that, just because the EU is imposing a ban on sending UCEs within its territory, such a ban will be respected by people in Japan, the Philippines, the USA or anywhere else. Finally, on spamming, I myself have been spammed. My name has been put on various lists and the spam comes in. That has been done by individuals who have opted me in to the lists held by the spammers. I have a very good option: I have a filter, I have a delete button. We must encourage people to use the technology and stop being their nannies. Please support the Cappato report, as amended. – Mr President, let me disagree with the previous speaker. We absolutely have to acknowledge the flaws of our own democracy. That was absolutely germane to the debate about the Middle East Unless we recognise our own flaws and inadequacies, how can we ever bring about changes in other democracies? That is what these two reports do brilliantly. Mrs Díez González' report reminds us that we have agreements with human rights and democracy clauses yet we do nothing. We stand by because the economic factors prevent us from acting. We look at the economic provisions rather than the demands of citizens who look to us to improve their lives through the agreements that the EU and its Member States have signed and ratified. Mr Van Hecke's report reminds us that there is much that is wrong with the world and brilliantly focuses us on the need for the European Union to speak with one voice. As a delegate last week in Geneva, I witnessed that the Commission is arguably one of the most ineffective Commissions known to those long attenders. Why? Because the Middle East is being used as a ball that is being batted between one group of nation states and another. At the same time, what happens? We stand here in this chamber, enjoying this luxury to contradict one another, to belong to different parties, to have different ideas, to have different sexual orientation, a different colour, a different way of life. That is the reality of human rights abuses. We cannot be narrow in the interpretation of human rights. We need to be global. We need to be expansive. Finally, a quotation after September 11: 'an attack upon one is an attack upon us all.' That is the reality. That is the immutable principle in the defence of human rights and universal freedoms. . I supported Amendments Nos 14 and 179 of the above report. Although the report does not concern the public's right of access to the institutions' documents, the Commission text seems to introduce a new and ill-defined exception to access to documents, namely "interests of the Union", which could negatively affect the Parliament's right to documents. I believe that the Commission's proposal, in the parts which Amendments 14 and 179 seek to amend, is in conflict with the recently adopted regulation on Article 255 (Public access to documents). This regulation states that "All rules concerning access to documents of the institutions should be in conformity" with the recently adopted regulation (Recital 12). Mr President, paragraph 26 of the legal opinion clearly states that in relation to the investigation of whether directives were properly applied, they 'almost certainly are or will be before the national court and hence outside the permitted mandate of the Committee'. – I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Cederschiöld on her excellent report and the recommendations contained therein. Of course the circulation of the euro will have both positive and negative impacts. The positive is that it will be a physical recognition of the Union moving together closely when it actually benefits individual Member States. The negative aspect of course is that a new currency is open to abuse and to undermining by the expert counterfeiters that we have already heard of. The euro is of enormous importance in the world markets, and therefore it is vital that we move to take protective measures to prevent counterfeiting. I am pleased that Mrs Cederschiöld makes such recommendations in her report and I personally and my group support these. It is worth noting, on the obligation to make checks at banks and bureaux de change, that she encourages close cooperation between Member States, the European Central Bank, national central banks, Europol and, when established, Eurojust. Also, she makes important reference to previous decisions on increasing criminal penalties, and calls for the harmonising of criminal charges and penalties. It is absolutely essential that we leave no hiding-place for criminals, who can move very quickly with their information and their expertise from one Member State to another. It is also essential to pool and centralise information, and expert analysis when such counterfeiting comes to light. Technical assistance to facilitate the coordination of investigations is also needed if we are to track down these criminals across the Member States. Equally, I applaud her recommendations to improve and facilitate cooperation between investigative and prosecuting bodies of the Member States, and that every Member State should recognise the principle of previous convictions. Whether in the EURO zone or not, I maintain that every citizen within the European Union has much to gain from a stable currency and a currency that can withstand the threats from the counterfeiters. Therefore I am extremely pleased to congratulate Mrs Cederschiöld on her report and the recommendations contained therein. – Mr President, I absolutely agree with Mr Deprez. This is a really important issue which goes to the whole heart of why we have the European Union. The fundamental principles of the Union are freedom, respect for democracy, human rights, and if you remove freedom of movement, if you stigmatise people because they have applied for a visa or they hold a particular type of visa, I believe you undermine the fundamental principles of the Union. That is why I welcome the broad thrust of Mr Deprez's report. It is a well-considered report and, as he said quite rightly, it is relevant to thousands of people. But even if it was relevant to only one person, we would still be acting, I am afraid, years, decades, after the time when we should have acted. It is, as he said, a means to achieve a goal and I welcome his legal basis of Article 62(3). I share Mr Deprez's concerns and his amendments afford freedom of movement for those awaiting a definitive visa. I welcome his refinement of the French proposals. There is a real need for these proposals. We must treat people fairly and with dignity and remove the stigma of visa stays. Some Member States will have reservations, but we must recognise that change is essential and that people must not be penalised in terms of their freedom of movement by unjustifiable and cumbersome administrative procedures. I congratulate Mr Deprez on an intelligent and reasoned approach, with measures that facilitate freedom of movement for third-country nationals on Member State territories for a maximum period of three months. This is a guarantee. We should welcome it and therefore welcome his report. Finally, perhaps this report will at some time enable us in this Chamber and in the Union to have a rational and reasonable debate on immigration and visa issues, decoupled from the ugliness of nationalism and xenophobia. I welcome Mr Deprez's report. Mr President, before we vote on the resolution as a whole, could you please confirm that the President of Parliament has ruled that the words 'and accompanying explanatory statement' in paragraph 5 may be deleted? – Mr President, last year I attended the 56th UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva and last week, I attended the Human Rights Contact Group: much more needs to be done and, if anything, the situation is worsening across the world. The promotion and defence of human rights is a high priority for the European Union and remains one of the fundamental principles of the Union. Indeed, I believe the concept of human rights should inform everything we do in the name of democracy because a negative human rights situation is often caused or exacerbated by the absence of democracy and inefficient and corrupt government structures. Human rights do not exist in isolation, neither should they be considered in abstract. They are the fundamental rights of all people regardless of who they are, where or to whom they are born. Yet as we speak in this Chamber, the human rights of men, women and children are being violated. This is why the Council and the Member States must work for the universal ratification of the main human rights instruments available to all countries, in particular, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural rights, the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, already mentioned, the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Racial Discrimination and the extremely important Convention against Torture. We also call for immediate measures to be taken to protect homosexual persons from degrading and inhuman treatment to which they are still subjected: because of their sexuality, they still face the death penalty in certain parts of the world. We also call on the EU to support the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and the other international organisations and NGOs in the fight against repression of the independent media already referred to by Lord Bethell and the repression of journalists and writers and to urge all states to end censorship, to protect the right of access to official information and to stop the restriction on access to modern information technology, often a saviour to people being repressed. We also call upon the Council and the UN Commission on Human Rights to give full support to the drafting of the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearances. Once again, and I hope not in vain, we call for the abolition of the death penalty. Countries can, will and should be named and shamed, but in this House and together with the Council and the UN Commission, we must redouble our efforts to ensure that men, women and children are born equal and can live as equals, enjoying the fundamental freedoms of human rights. That is the message that this House must carry to the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva and I hope everyone in this House will support such an intention. . – EPLP members abstained on the Perry report because we do not believe the report to be a balanced view or assessment of the facts. The report also contains errors of fact. – Madam President, the British Labour group voted in favour of the amendments on data retention, Amendments 46 and 47, precisely because we consider a very delicate balance has been struck in the detection of criminality and the protection of civil liberties, in particular the references to the fact that any measures must be proportionate and appropriate within a democratic society and, indeed, the references to Articles 6(1) and (2) of the Treaty of the European Union and, accordingly, the rulings on the European Court of Human Rights and the European Convention. – I rise because a damaging accusation was made that somehow we have violated the treaties by excluding smaller groups from discussions and negotiations and it is extremely important to correct this. The debate and vote on the first draft report was held on 16 November 2000. The rapporteurs were given a clear mandate by Parliament for discussion with the Council. The European Parliament's Conference of Presidents also gave their clear political support. The mandate given under Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure was, and I quote, "to table amendments seeking to reach a compromise", in order to adopt the Regulation in a single reading and within the date set in the Treaty to implement Article 255. The series of trialogue meetings, discussions between the Council, the Commission and Parliament, took place from January to March 2001. All, and I repeat all, the various versions of the compromise amendments were discussed in the LIBE Committee and following the trialogue meetings. The process has been considerably more transparent than the conciliation process and these compromise amendments were agreed on 25 April in the LIBE Committee. At no time has any group, or any individual, been prevented from putting down amendments to put their influence into the procedure. Things move on. This Union has moved on. Post Nice, we have a security policy. It is right that we operate properly and responsibly. . – I have to disagree with my colleague, Mr Poos. It is not for the Commission to tell political groups what decisions they should make on the amendments that have come from the different political groups and therefore the Commissioner should not be placed in this invidious position. .  Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the members of the Committee on Citizen's Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs for their unanimous support on this very important report. To provide a context, at present there is no EU-wide provision uniformly governing the repatriation of mortal remains from one Member State to another. In the absence of any such provisions, cross-border transportation of mortal remains is governed by two instruments of international law, but primarily the Strasbourg agreement concluded in 1973. The world, methods and technology have changed much since then. It is also interesting to note that only some Member States have actually acceded to this Strasbourg agreement, which, in many respects, is obsolete. On account of the above-mentioned agreements, the death of a Community citizen in a Member State other than his country of origin results in much more complex procedures, a longer period of time before burial or cremation takes place, and higher costs than if the death had occurred in the deceased person's country of origin. We encourage people to live, work and settle in states other than their own national Member State. Currently, over 5 million people reside outside their national Member State; add to this the millions of EU citizens who holiday throughout the European Union every year, and we are looking at a growing number of people who die abroad. Their relatives are faced with appalling bureaucracy through which they have to wade. The Commission has recently stated once again that EU citizens should be able to move between Member States on terms similar to those applicable to nationals of a Member State, and that additional administrative or legal obligations should be kept to the bare minimum required by the fact that the person in question is a non-national. As things stand at present, it is still far from true that a Community citizen who dies in a Member State other than his own is treated in the same way as a national who dies in his home country. This has been pointed out to the Commission and the Council on numerous occasions by many Members of the European Parliament. We are presented with the ludicrous situation that we are supposed to be a Europe without internal borders, yet as soon as somebody dies, when there is a great need for understanding and sympathy, we erect the borders merely because the body needs to be transported from one country to another. That means that a zinc coffin is required, at enormous expense. A family from Coventry in the UK had to repatriate their son who was tragically killed on his first night on holiday in Spain. They were given no help. They were given a mass of bureaucracy – in a foreign language – through which they had to wade. They were given no translation, no help from the consular services and had to meet the cost of over GBP 3000 for a zinc coffin alone. We are presented with a ludicrous situation in which the repatriation of a corpse from Salzburg to Freilassing – a distance of ten kilometres – requires a zinc coffin, but the transfer of a body from Ivalo to Helsinki – a distance of 1120 kilometres – requires no such coffin. It is quite clear that we need a uniform approach to this situation. We are currently 15 Member States, soon to be 25. We are encouraging people to live in other countries, to embrace other cultures; yet when they die, suddenly, the border is erected and the bureaucracy comes into play. It is very simple: in 1973, we were worried about the deterioration of corpses during transit. Embalming is now common, technology has moved on. We have to say to the reluctant Commission that this issue will not go away. All of us here are protected – we have organisations, trade unions and institutions that will return our bodies to where our families want them to be. But imagine for a moment the plight of a mother, Dolores Shambley, dealing with the death of her son, Kris Shambley – barely 20 in 1998. Dolores Shambley is a woman with very little money, who was given very little assistance. This is a fundamental right. If we are really interested in upholding the rights of our citizens, I urge the Commission to bring forward proposals and accept the principle of free movement. I believe that the right to move freely only ends when the body is interred. There has been a reluctance within the Commission to accept this own-initiative report. Be brave. Be courageous. Accept the challenge. The goodwill is there. I now want the political initiative. – I hope you will bear with me. This is not a point of order, but I believe it is an historic announcement. As the House is probably aware, there have been recent announcements by David Trimble of the Ulster Unionist Party and Gerry Adams of Sinn Fein. Both have come out with statements which are committed to the peace process and to decommissioning for Northern Ireland. I am sure that the President will want to write on behalf of the European Union to congratulate all parties concerned on their actions, their courage and their determination to carry the peace process and decommissioning forward, and I am sure that you will agree that peace in Northern Ireland offers hope to everyone everywhere. – Mr President, I should like to make a correction to what Mrs Banotti has just said because we will be dealing with spamming and unsolicited commercial e-mails at a later plenary. What we are being targeted with is not spam. Spam is untargeted. We are quite clearly being targeted in this particular case. – Mr President, I rise with a heavy heart because it is never a pleasant duty to speak about human rights abuses. It reminds us that individuals throughout the world, because they are different, because of where they were born, to whom they were born, are not given those universal freedoms that we so often take for granted. The heavy heart is also because I am a friend of Egypt. I recognise the importance of Egypt and hold the Egyptian Government, President Mubarak and the Ambassador to the European Union in the highest regard. But when it comes to human rights abuses, if we are selective in the application of principle, then we lay this House open to the charge of hypocrisy. What do we ask? We ask for simple human rights: the right to a fair trial, the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, the right to freedom from torture and cruel or inhuman treatment, the right to privacy, the right to equality before the law and we reaffirm also Article 14.7 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which has been mentioned today. Let me say personally – I am not speaking on behalf of my group – that, as a gay man, if I had been born in Egypt or somewhere else, because I was different, because of the people with whom I associated, or because I declared myself publicly, I could have every single one of the human rights I have mentioned taken away from me. Look at me. I am human. I bleed. I laugh. I cry. We are each of us exactly the same, but strangely others find a difference to deprive us of our human rights. Therefore to do nothing is to condone human rights abuses wherever they occur. To look the other way is to throw away our own rights and our claim to call ourselves civilised. I call upon the Egyptian President and the Egyptian Government to do the right, just and proper thing and to release the men in question. – I am very interested in the statement the Commissioner made. He is quite right to point out that we want to avoid legal proceedings or court proceedings if possible. But if he is correct in saying that the two parties are only two days away from a possible agreement, it is absolutely inexplicable that he should be giving one of the parties two weeks in order to resolve this matter. We were told several weeks ago that today was the deadline – and yes, the Commission has initiated proceedings. But for heaven’s sake Commissioner, by indicating today and presumably also at your press conference, that there is another two weeks, you will make everyone read that as meaning that you have simply extended the deadline. How on earth do you justify the fact that in instigating proceedings today you are also effectively sending a signal to the French that they still have another two weeks to take a decision on this matter? – Mr President, much has been said today about the cynicism and hypocrisy of the past, but I want to say to you that there is nothing more cynical or hypocritical than people who have already announced that they were going to vote against the Commission commenting on the process of hearings. We had part of this House announce even before the hearings started that they intended to reject the Commission. We need the progressive forces of this House – and I say this to people like Mr van Velzen and to others – to unite after the vote tomorrow to work with the new European Commission so that we can actually make progress, because we have had nine months of stagnation. We must stop the political guerrilla warfare that is going on in this House. We must work together. Let me make a comment on the fact that two members of the potential Commission have been criticised. We are not offering the European Commission a blank cheque, Mr Prodi; we will be watching very carefully what you and your colleagues do. But we will not see members of this Commission hounded by the press in any Member State of this Union. If there is evidence, it will be presented, and we rely upon you to take action where it is necessary. We will be voting within the Socialist Group in the European Parliament not on a party political basis but on the objective basis of the hearings and the questions that we had answered over the last couple of weeks. Let me pick up the point made by Mr van Velzen because I think this process is in two stages. We have had the speech by the President of the Commission and we have had the hearings, but the second stage is the work programme of the European Commission. The work programme should be an exciting indication of where the European Union is going and of what the European Union intends to do. In the past even under Delors and under Jacques Santer it never appeared that way, but the second stage is vital. That is why I agree with Mr van Velzen: we must make sure that this work programme is understood by the public, and that it is important to the public; and we have to work with you to deliver that work programme. We have made a good start with the hearing and after that vote tomorrow let the progressive forces in this House work with the Commission to deliver what the people of Europe want. – Madam President, instead of the empty gestures that we are getting from the Liberals and the British Conservatives on the issue of British beef, can we hear what the Commission has to say on Friday. Then, at some stage, in the future, Parliament can table an oral question with debate, where we can have a resolution to wind up the debate. What we want on Friday is a clear statement from Mr Byrne as to the legality of the document produced by the French Government. I expect that it will vindicate British beef. What we then want is for the Commission to take action or the French Government to back down and allow the free movement of goods through the European Union. At this stage there is no need for Parliament to have a resolution. I wish that other British Members would stop the cheap politics that we are seeing this week in this House. ( – Mr Byrne has left the airport – I assume that is Strasbourg airport – and is on his way here. Therefore under Rule 146, 32 Members can set the specific time and date when this debate should resume. I am therefore proposing that the debate should resume at 4.45 p.m. today, and I would ask 32 Members to support this. If they do, then that ends the matter until 4.45 p.m. – Mr President, it is very important indeed that the Council and the Commission think very carefully about the meeting that is being held and the meetings that will be held in the future on the macroeconomic dialogue. It is absolutely pointless to exclude the European Parliament from that discussion. We debate the annual economic report with the Council and the Commission. Last week we had Mr Duisenberg in the European Parliament to oversee the work of the European Central Bank. We have finance ministers coming before the Economic Committee of the European Parliament and we have the social partners also coming before the European Parliament. I hope that at this stage it is an oversight in not involving the European Parliament in this discussion. It seems to me a rather pointless exercise if we are not present. I want to talk about the outputs from the dialogue. Frankly, that is much more important at this stage than who sits around the table at the first meeting. It is called a macroeconomic dialogue. I hope it is a dialogue and not a monologue. Our experience from our discussions with the ECOFIN Council and the European Central Bank is that we are very much involved in a monologue. We sit and listen to the orthodoxy from the ECOFIN Council and we listen to the orthodoxy from the European Central Bank. They show absolutely no imagination whatsoever. The macroeconomic dialogue is critical. At the moment we are operating in a very benign economic environment. We have low inflation, we are returning to growth and things are reasonably stable. What happens in the future when we have a problem in our economy and where there is a serious external shock or a serious internal shock and you have to talk to the social partners and the other economic actors about some perhaps unpalatable measures that need to be taken at a European level? I say to the president of the ECOFIN Council and to Commissioner Solbes Mira that what we set out in the macroeconomic dialogue in the next few days is not just for what is occurring at the present time, but to set the mood so that in the event of a problem or difficult issues we can actually sit together with the social partners and work out solutions to our problems. Equally, we do not want this monologue – having listened to Mr Duisenberg it will certainly run the risk of being a monologue – to be a discussion only about wage levels. There are many more things involved in the real economy of the European Union than the level of wages of people in employment. We need to look at the reform of labour markets. We need to look at the reform of the capital markets. We need to look at the reform of the product markets. All those things impact upon the social partners. In conclusion, my group will look with interest at the conclusion of the macroeconomic dialogue. We see this as a first step. But please involve us in the future and understand that in times of difficulty this dialogue could be critical to the way in which European citizens accept the institutions of the European Union when difficult decisions have to be taken. – Madam President, first of all I would like to thank Commissioner Fischer for his statement, and say to him that on Wednesday of next week we want either President Prodi or Commissioner Byrne to come to Parliament to make a clear statement on what measures the Commission intends to take following the publication of the scientific conclusions later today. This new Commission must be seen to be acting decisively and if public confidence is not to be eroded we need action within days, not within weeks or months. Therefore I say to Commissioner Fischler that when you have discussions with your colleagues over the weekend, when you look at the scientific conclusions – when you meet as a College on Wednesday – we cannot have prevarication or fudge. We have to have decisive action based on a clear decision that would be taken at the scientific committee later today. Perhaps Mr Parish could send a copy of his speech to his own party leader because sadly in Britain his own party leader has been advocating a ban on French products in the United Kingdom. What we want here, President, is the scientific evidence to prove or disprove the French case and we want an immediate resolution. We do not want the xenophobia and the jingoism that we have heard on both sides of the English Channel in the last couple of weeks. We want to make sure that farmers and their families are taken care of. We want to make sure that the British beef ban is lifted. All of the evidence demonstrates that British beef is now the safest in Europe and, we believe, the safest in the world. It was this House, through its special committee of inquiry into BSE, together with the European Commission, that recommended the measures that have now been taken to guarantee the safety throughout the European Union of those who consume British products and British beef. It is for the future of the European Union, it is for the future of our unity in the World Trade talks in November when we go to Seattle, that we need to have two of Europe’s major trading partners resolve this dispute. Can anyone imagine what it will be like when we open the World Trade talks, if there is still a dispute between the French and the British on such a fundamental issue? It will be used by our opponents to divide the European Union in these crucial talks. I would pay tribute, President, to the National Farmers’s Union and to British farmers. This week we had the Vice-President of the National Farmers’s Union, Tim Bennett, here. He met my French colleagues from the Socialist Group and he put forward a compelling argument as to why the British beef ban should be lifted. He did not use the gimmicks that we have seen recently: the Liberal Democrat dragging a sack of British beef through the airport, hoping that some hapless customs officer would arrest her for a photo opportunity, or the Tories storming the Bastille two weeks ago in Paris, again for a photo opportunity. The National Farmers’ Union came here to meet Parliamentarians and to meet representatives of the Commission because they have a compelling argument. I want to thank those colleagues from Parliament who met representatives and British farmers and listened to that compelling case. But I say to the Commission that the responsibility being shown by the National Farmers’ Union can only last for so long. If the Commission does not act next week, if this drags on for more than a few more days, then the argument in Britain will shift. Those people who at the moment have been asking for calm and for no retaliatory action will not be listened to. Inevitably, this issue will escalate and I think it will do permanent damage to British and French relations. I say to the Commission and I say to this House that over the next few days, we need calm: we do not want a trade war, we do not want an escalating trade ban. We want common sense and we want to base our decision on science because in the disputes that occur in the future – and there will be many on food safety because consumers are so concerned now about the food that they eat – the scientists, the objectivity and the independence of the scientists is absolutely critical. Who knows what issue we will need to refer to that Scientific Committee. It is critical that we base our decisions on the scientific evidence and if there is a clear majority today by the scientists to lift the British beef ban we expect the French authorities to act within days, and we expect the Commission to take the appropriate legal action if that does not happen. Let me conclude on one final point. The one issue that has been highlighted by this dispute is the fact that we now need a European Food Agency in place as a matter of urgency. I would say to Commissioner Fischler that, when the College meets next Wednesday, please come forward more rapidly with a proposal to establish a European Food Agency because in my view, if that had been in place today, this dispute would never have arisen. – Mr President, I wondered why Mr Fatuzzo has nothing to say on this. I would have thought that he would have had a minute to share with us. We are being deprived because we have no explanation of how he voted on the Plan Colombia. I wonder through you, President, if it is possible to ask him if he could explain to assembled masses here how he voted, because it is important that we know. . – Mr President, as you said, this report – on an 'open-coordination-method' common asylum policy and internal security – covers two methods. It is really two reports in one. It should have been two separate reports but owing to Parliament's Rules, and also to time restraints and organisational factors, it is a single report. The whole approach of the common asylum policy is integral to the work of our committee and we are very much committed to it. Regarding the open coordination method, we stress that this must not be a substitute for Parliament's involvement in the whole process of working towards a common asylum policy and indeed a common immigration policy: we are committed to the full communitarisation of these topics. It is very important that Parliament has a full role in the legislative process in this area. We welcome the open coordination method. The sharing of statistics and everything else it involves must not be seen as a substitute for moving towards the full communitarisation of a common asylum policy with full involvement for Parliament. We must also ensure that using the open coordination method does not reduce asylum policy to the lowest common denominator of Member States' current policies. We want high standards. We want best practice to be followed. Accordingly, the open coordination method must be used as a transition period towards a second stage where asylum is a full legislative agenda item. Furthermore, best practice in the open coordination method should not be seen as a substitute for the Geneva Convention and the relevant Protocol thereto. We must put pressure on all Member State governments to integrate asylum policy, and indeed immigration considerations, into all policy areas as a horizontal policy objective. The second part of the communication is on internal security. This has clearly been moved up the agenda since the events of 11 September last year. We must ensure that Member States' provisions already existing under the Geneva Convention exclude persons who have been involved in terrorist activities, crimes against humanity or other similar offences which are already clearly defined. We must make certain that these provisions are presented in such a way as to ensure that terrorists do not enter EU territory via the asylum procedure. There is no evidence at the moment that would-be terrorists are entering the European Union or any Member States and seeking asylum, but the report seeks to make absolutely clear that there are safeguards and procedures to cover that eventuality. It is crucial that the measures that are introduced to deal with the threat to internal security are proportionate, that they are effective and above all that they safeguard human rights. I welcome the Commission's commitment to using only the Geneva Convention exclusion clauses as a basis for rejecting individuals' claims for asylum, but I urge the exclusion clauses to be used carefully. I reiterate that the EU must have a consistent approach and should not extradite individuals to countries where they may be at risk of incurring the death penalty. We need to be absolutely clear on the status and treatment of people who are excluded from international procedure, but who are non-removable from EU territory owing to any of the different reasons which may lead to this status. In general, with certain reservations that I have outlined, we welcome the Commission's commitment in this report to ensuring that access to asylum procedure is guaranteed. I ask that the exclusion clauses should not be routinely considered for practical as well as humanitarian reasons. I have tabled some amendments to this report either to correct minor errors or owing to setbacks in committee, but these do not detract from the importance and significance of the report. I commend the work that Commissioner Vitorino has been doing in moving towards a common European policy on asylum. There is no way forward other than for all 15 Member States to have a similar policy with guidelines that are not just similar but the same, and which are recognised and enforced by all Member States. – Madam President, I have been waiting patiently – or even impatiently – for quite a long time now because I wanted to raise this point before the vote on the Ombudsman. Could you explain why, when we have a very expensive and sophisticated system of electronic voting, we had to go through – and I choose my words carefully – the organised chaos of the previous vote. We have a system here which has three buttons to vote for candidate A or candidate B or abstain; this affords the perfect opportunity for secrecy, and I know we have used it before in similar circumstances. It would be less time-consuming and less expensive surely to have used that rather than go through the procedure we have just gone through. Could you explain why that decision was taken. Whilst I am on my feet, Madam President, I would like to refer back to earlier this morning when you were in the chair. You will be aware – because I noticed a distinctly presidential frown – that a Member’s mobile phone went off during the speech of, I think it was, the Prime Minister of Finland. This was a gross discourtesy to the Prime Minister of Finland, and I felt the discourtesy was exacerbated by the fact that the Member then proceeded to answer the phone and continue with the conversation. What action can we take to eliminate this in future? Thirdly, as I am on my feet and I have your ear, can you do anything about the fact that the some of the huissiers at the entrance are smoking on duty. I think it gives an extraordinarily poor impression of this Parliament. .  Mr President, over the last few years scientific progress has transformed human organ transplants into a routine medical procedure with over a 99% success rate in western Europe. However, the serious shortage of donors means that many patients still die unnecessarily. To counter this shortage, sadly an abhorrent phenomenon has developed – the illicit trade in human organs. There are several well-documented cases of EU citizens who have travelled to poorer countries in the world in search of vital remedies for their own failing health. This rise in so-called "transplant tourism", whereby rich EU citizens, rich EU patients, are purchasing organs from living donors in developing countries, is on the rise and is to me completely abhorrent. I appreciate that anyone dying of kidney failure will be desperate. Indeed, they are themselves a victim of the current failing system. But it cannot be right or acceptable that someone with money is able to buy a better life for themselves at the expense of someone else's health. Make no mistake, while in many cases a living healthy donor may be alright after an operation, in many other cases the donor's health will be critically affected. It is already illegal in 14 out of 15 EU countries for citizens to buy an organ from anyone else. So, if we outlaw it in our own countries, why can anyone think it acceptable to buy human organs from other countries? We do not permit, say, someone from the south of England to go to Scotland to purchase a kidney, nor is it legal for a Parisian to go to Marseilles for the same purpose. So why can it be acceptable for any European to go to India or Pakistan or indeed any European Union citizen to travel to Moldova or the Ukraine? I know there may be considerable consensus tonight on this debate, but I also know that there are alternative views in my own country and indeed elsewhere. Furthermore, many of us have read reports in the international media suggesting that there are criminal gangs out there trafficking and murdering and even suggestions or allegations of children being bred in order to remove their organs later on. The Schengen system, which we applaud, makes it easier, however, for criminal gangs to move freely around the European Union where they can exploit the divergences between Member States' legislation. The very welcome accession of the new Member States of the European Union will make it possible to tackle cross-border issues such as trafficking more effectively. However, if the area of free movement is extended, common rules such as these are essential in order to ensure that criminal groups are not able to further exploit the differences in Member States' laws to their own benefit. My report also calls on the Commission to evaluate the feasibility of a comprehensive European Union directive regulating the legal use of organs for transplant, including a database of legally available organs and the creation of an EU-wide database of patients in need of an organ transplant. Member States may also wish to consider whether the current practice whereby citizens opt in to donate their organs in the event of their death should be changed to one where, unless they have opted out, their organs will be available for medical transplant. I will certainly be urging the British Government to consider this possibility. The Greek proposal before us lays out common definitions of offences to be included in the scope of trafficking in human organs. It sets a minimum ten years' imprisonment for offences committed in aggravating circumstances and introduces a much needed element of extraterritoriality, whereby individuals who seek to purchase organs from third country nationals, even outside the EU, would be committing an offence under EU law. I support the main aims and principles of the Greek proposal. I am suggesting, however, a few amendments. I would like to add to the title the words 'parts of organs and tissues', which removes any ambiguities. Also, adding the word 'illegal' would eliminate any suggestion that legitimate medical purposes might be adversely affected. If the title is modified to clarify that the proposal is concerned only with illegal trafficking, then reproductive and embryonic organs and tissues and blood should also be included in the scope of the proposal. Furthermore, I do not believe that living donors should be held criminally responsible. It is not appropriate for the EU to criminalise a donor who, in the vast majority of cases, will have been persuaded or coerced by criminal networks in the hope of escaping from extreme poverty. With these remarks and the proposed amendments that I have put before you, I commend this report to colleagues and I hope that as many of you as possible will be able to support this report tomorrow. – Mr President, firstly, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur of her presentation for what is a very fair and balanced report. On behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, I am pleased to be able to deliver this opinion, on behalf of my colleague, Mrs Hazan, who unfortunately cannot be with us tonight. My committee considers it important to give a positive response to this Commission proposal, which strives to make the recognition and enforcement of judgments between Member States almost automatic. Not only does this regulation build upon the judicial cooperation between the States it marks an attempt to put the citizen at the heart of the Europe – the citizen, not just big business, money brokers and others, with perhaps profit purely as their motive. My committee also considers that the provision of the regulation which seeks to protect the weaker parties in a contract should be approved. This will enable consumers, workers and insurers to be safeguarded by effective European regulations that can be automatically applicable across the Member States. Following this logic, it seems clear to us that there are no legitimate grounds to exempt e-commerce transactions from consumer protection rules. The rapporteur has referred to this, but e-commerce is an area which is set to grow. To differentiate between the rights of those buying on line and those shopping in the high street would go against the valuable work that the European Parliament and the EU in general has already done in championing the rights of the citizens. E-consumers, in common with all weaker parties to a contract and indeed European citizens in general, deserve and should be given the right to a fair hearing. Finally, my committee welcomes the introduction of alternative dispute resolution procedures and hopes that this regulation can enter into force as soon as possible. – Mr President, the President-in-Office says that it is not the Council's responsibility but that of the Member States. But what is the Council if it is not the Member States? I am not certain that is really a satisfactory answer. He also said that it does not come into operation until 2003. That may be so, but if we are working towards equal treatment for people with disabilities, people who are visually impaired, surely we have to start to make progress now and we cannot have an arbitrary cut-on date as opposed to a cut-off date. I accept that what we are referring to here is the Commission, but the Council also surely has some jurisdiction over what the Commission is doing. The Commission must have some relationship with the Council, and I would hope for a more satisfactory response. – I wonder if you are able to confirm, or your services are able to confirm, that this building, particularly the Tower Building, satisfies all aspects of health and safety legislation and whether it has a valid fire certificate. These are important issues and if it does not, then I think serious questions must be raised. I would therefore ask you either to confirm this categorically or, if not, to confirm that measures are taken to investigate the situation. Madam President, I have been listening to this debate, especially to Minister Roche, and it has been something of a surreal experience. I have been increasingly puzzled as it has gone on. Mr Roche, you concluded your remarks by saying that this process was at its beginning. This rather begs the question: what is the coordination between the presidencies of the European Union? You referred to the framework document produced, in February 2003, by the Greek Government, because it was a Greek initiative. I was the rapporteur for this Parliament on the framework document, and the Greek Government was very anxious to get it through during its presidency in the first half of last year. The process is far from its beginning; in fact, this time last year we were hoping it was near its end. Some governments – perhaps the Italians, the Irish, and certainly some of the Scandinavian ones – were putting a spanner in the works and stalling on this. My report was adopted by 420 votes to nil in the European Parliament. Are you aware of that report on trafficking in human organs? Have you read it? Mr Coelho referred to it earlier on. Certainly, my report would answer some of the problems that you raised. I could tell you a great deal about this situation – over 1000 European Union citizens a year, allegedly, going to poorer countries in the world to seek human organs, whether it be India, Pakistan, Albania or some of the other countries that have been referred to. There is much information already in the market; we are not starting from scratch. What chance is there of real progress? Indeed, what point is there in this debate? What is the research that has gone into your statement, if you have not taken account of all that has gone through this Parliament already, if you have not read in depth the work that has been done and the reports that have gone through this Parliament, in consultation with the Commission and other governments? The danger is that all the good work and good intentions that colleagues have spoken about here will come to nothing if presidency after presidency does not build on what has happened already. – Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Wiebenga, on his report, which gets to the heart of the problem we are facing at the moment: temporary protection for people in the most difficult circumstances. I regret that Mr Nassauer has ignored what the rapporteur said about the use of language and has talked about "burden sharing", because the issue is actually how different Member States accept their responsibilities and try to treat people in very desperate circumstances fairly. The rapporteur also referred, quite rightly, to the Kosovo crisis, in which Member States failed to take on their responsibilities and poorer states, such as Albania, were left to deal with large numbers of refugees. With the new mechanism that should be avoided. If there is a mass influx of refugees into the Community, Member States will have agreed in advance to share the responsibility. This temporary protection needs to cover not only spontaneous mass influxes into the Community territory but also non-spontaneous influxes, when people have been airlifted out of difficult areas by Member States, or perhaps other parties, and possibly assisted to come to the EU. We must ensure that appropriate provisions are in place. Another very important point on which my group has tabled an amendment, Amendment No 44, concerns the speed and the workings of the directive. When a refugee crisis occurs, it is absolutely imperative that the Member States act as quickly as possible. I applaud the rapporteur for introducing a time limit for the Council decision. However, my group has tabled an amendment to bring that forward. We do not believe that three months is acceptable. We are asking that it should be one month. I am fully aware of the logistical and organisational difficulties that this presents, but action needs to be immediate and an emergency Council meeting is a small price to pay for ensuring that those in need receive protection. Amendments Nos 45 and 46 concern the rights of individuals. When they are in Member States they have the right to asylum and protection. We should ensure that these people are not forced to return to their countries if that is going to create desperate problems for them. Member States must try to do more to integrate refugees into society. Young people should be put into education and adults given the opportunity to work as quickly as possible, so they can be seen as active and useful participants in society. We hope that situations like Kosovo will not happen again, but if they do we must ensure that we are prepared. My group will be supporting this with the amendments to which I have just referred. Mr President, I wish to begin by paying tribute to Commissioner Vitorino. He said at the beginning of his contribution that it would be our last opportunity to hear him. I hope that is not true and that those Members who return to the new Parliament will again have the pleasure of working with him. I am sure colleagues will agree he has been one of the best and most accessible of all the Commissioners. He has worked closely with us in our committee on a very difficult dossier and very challenging topics.  It is our joint challenge to enable everyone in the new wider Europe to live freely in a safer world, of which Europe is just one part. It sometimes seems that we are playing around with a jigsaw puzzle and do not even know what all the pieces are. We certainly do not know yet how they fit together. Mr Hernández Mollar spoke of the deep-rooted challenges we face. In the work of our committee on citizens' rights and freedom, the challenge must be to ensure that despite deep-rooted changes we are still able to maintain the rights of over 400 million EU citizens to freedom of movement, a decent education and a decent home. The enlarged Europe must not be an excuse for us to replace the Iron Curtain with a division between rich and poor people and rich and poor countries. Rights have to be equal wherever you live within this new Europe, whatever the colour of your skin, your ethnicity, your religion or whether you have no religion at all. Earlier this afternoon there were some bigoted contributions from the other side of the Chamber about the dominance of Christianity in Europe and how important that was. I reject that. It has no place in these debates because people's rights should not be affected by religion, gender, origin or age. We must do everything we can to protect minorities and to give them freedom from oppression. This includes the rights, for example, of the Roma people in some of the Eastern European countries. The Commissioner was right when he said that enlargement is a real challenge and it is not one that we have by any means addressed yet. We have the challenge of the external frontiers, to which he referred. In our efforts to control those frontiers and stop supplies of drugs and weapons, we must not make a barrier between our wealthier 25 countries and the poorer states just outside those new frontiers. I am sure, Mr Vitorino, you share with us the desire to make certain that there is justice in this enlarged Europe. You spoke of companies and businesses. That must continue and include freedom of the press – not closing down newspapers, as we have seen in some countries. There is a right to free television, and free media, not those dominated by a few people with vested interests. There is a lot for us to do. Commissioner, you have referred to many of the points this afternoon. I shall just mention a couple more. We must ensure that there is no oppression of those people who wish to move around, to exercise their right to free movement. You. have referred to the hysteria in some of the press about that. The right to access asylum must be reinforced, because we in this Parliament and the Commission are guardians of those rights: the right to asylum for those in need. The Commission is one of the guardians of those Treaties and of those rights. We can look forward to the future with some optimism. If there is anyone listening who is in a position to look for a new President of the Commission, my suggestion – for what it is worth – would be you, Commissioner Vitorino. I hope that will be taken on board. We thank you for all you have done and I thank Mr Hernández Mollar and other colleagues on the committee for everything they have done over the last few years. – Mr President, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, Gerhard Schmid, and other colleagues on the committee. As Mr Schmid said, he had at the beginning a very difficult brief. Let us remember that the pressure for this report came as a result of some quite fanciful journalism in different countries and some wild, weird and wonderful assertions, most of which served to undermine the very case that the authors themselves were trying to make. The surprise of this report is the fact that very few of these allegations are substantiated. Several speakers this morning have referred to the UK’s role in this matter. The report acknowledges that every state in the European Union and elsewhere in the world needs some sort of interception to protect national security, safeguard its economy and fight crime. That is nothing exceptional. All the Member States do it, cooperating with each other and with other friendly democratic countries. For example, to counter terrorism threats we need to collaborate with those who have the right skills and can help. I know the United States is helping Spain in its current difficulties. The UK also already ensures that any operations on UK soil are carried out with the full knowledge and consent of the UK government and are subject to UK law. That means – I hope Mrs McKenna is listening – that everything is compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights. I hope we can put to rest some of the assertions and allegations that are still flying around about what is going on in the UK as well. Furthermore, the UK stands completely by the conclusion reached in Council that in no circumstances may telecommunications interceptions be used to gain commercial advantage. Numerous allegations were made before the report was published. They have been repeated today by a colleague who has since left and, as Mr Schmid will testify and the report shows, there is no evidence to substantiate them. I thank the rapporteur on his very comprehensive report and Mr Coelho for chairing the committee. – Mr President, I am very pleased to add my support and my group’s support to this report. This report had a long gestation period. But the fact that we are still here so early in the morning is a tribute to the rapporteur’s work on this programme and, indeed, that of the Commissioner and the Portuguese presidency – which has shown itself to be committed to youth, to the voluntary service and to education in its broadest sense. The report we have ended up with now is more closely targeted, with an emphasis on social protection and, as the rapporteur has said, a more flexible approach than in earlier reports. We also have more money in the programme in recognition of its importance. We will always ask for more money. The budget is not enough. It is perhaps Parliament’s role to ask for more. But we can be pleased with the outcome. We can be sure that whatever money we have in this programme will be directed at youth and will, in the long-term, be money well spent. I agree with the rapporteur that this money and this programme will ensure that the efforts are targeted not just at some small sections of society but, as the Commissioner said in a previous report, at all sections of society. We must look to those who will benefit most and those who are in greatest need and who might otherwise be socially excluded. We are delighted that some candidate countries of Central and Eastern Europe will benefit as well. We can be pleased with our efforts and pleased with this report. In seven years’ time we will look back at the youth of today who will have benefited from this report and be pleased that this was the beginning of real progress. – Madam President, with reference to a point I made in the debate on Tampere on Tuesday, it has been brought to my attention by my colleague, Mr Camre, that remarks that I attributed to him were not what he intended and the translation into English, and I believe French, was the exact opposite of what he intended to say. My criticism of him was perhaps unfair. I would just like to put that straight and I have now done so. – The rapporteur in his introduction said that the objective is to implement the Dublin Convention and have a system of fingerprinting. My group agrees in principle with that, but we want some safeguards. Mr Pirker also said that the purpose was to ensure that there are no social abuses of the system. Again, my group would agree with that, but we want to make certain of this, which is why safeguards are necessary to ensure that there are no abuses by the authorities either. I believe that there are some on the right of this House who wish to muddy the waters and to draw no distinction between asylum seekers and illegal immigrants, third country nationals. I shy away from the use of the word 'foreigners', or indeed the word that was used in the translation of the English text. In English 'aliens' are people from another planet and to be perfectly honest we do not have much of a problem with that at the moment. There seem to be, though, Members of this House who have no sympathy with either group – and if there were aliens from another planet, they would probably have little sympathy with them either. The safeguards and the amendments that we are asking for are designed to ensure that any data collected is processed properly and that where people are granted asylum or achieve legitimate status the data collected is deleted. On the age limit, it is sometimes very difficult to tell the age of a young person, but there seems to be a consensus that 18 is a fair compromise. Mrs McKenna in her impassioned speech a few moments ago said that we must ensure that asylum seekers and others are not treated as criminals. Certainly we want to ensure that this new system is used to assist the most vulnerable in our society. I accept, as I am sure we all must do, that people do not leave their homes and families and travel half-way across Europe thousands of miles away for no reason at all. They do not do just it on a whim, they do it for a real reason and we must accept and respect the fact that they need support and they need help and assistance. I hope – and I am sure the Commissioner is listening – we can make certain that when this system comes into full operation, it is used positively, humanely and with considerable compassion to help and support the most vulnerable in our society. – The British Labour members and I have voted in favour of the Swiebel report, which as a whole serves a valuable purpose. All Member States must, by their very nature, be strong and confident enough to accept criticism. This does not automatically mean that every criticism should be accepted as valid. The report is based on second-hand information from NGOs and other organisations. A number of factual inaccuracies have therefore crept in. The UK takes very seriously all allegations of violence and racism by public servants. Any allegations are rigorously investigated and prosecutions sought. The detention of foreign nationals suspected of terrorism is a very serious matter. However, exceptional measures are sometimes necessary to deal with potential threats to national security. The 1951 Geneva Convention was surely never intended to give protection to terrorists; it is therefore right that they should be excluded. Whilst not perfect, UK legislation seeks to promote the rights of workers and encourages employers to treat employees with due consideration at all times. They also have access to legal redress if appropriate. With respect to maternity rights in the UK, all pregnant women are entitled to 18 weeks leave, which may begin up to 11 weeks before the birth of the child. So we have reservations about the accuracy of the report but we welcome it and have voted in favour. – Mr President, I should like to say a few words on the Ludford report on the rights of long-term residents. My apologies for missing the first few minutes of this debate but, amongst a number of problems today, I was held up in the passport queue at the airport. Ahead of me were two UK passport holders but, being of Asian origin, they were being subjected to what I consider to be quite unacceptable levels of interrogation. Colleagues around the House will know that is all too typical at customs points all around Europe. My apologies also to Baroness Ludford. Mr Medina said earlier that some of the amendments that went through committee weakened the Commission's original proposal. It was due, in part, to the lack of numbers on my own side that these amendments went through in committee, so I apologise for that. We should strive as far as possible to give all long-term residents the same rights as EU citizens. We should reject the PPE-DE amendments which seek to classify long-term residents as somehow second-class citizens. As Mrs Roure said, we should encourage people to integrate and I support their efforts to learn languages. But using an individual's progress in language as a criterion as to whether to grant long-term status is discriminatory. If the ability to speak your home nation's language properly was generally used as a measure of the right of residency, I can think of a lot of people back home who would not have the right to live there! Other parts of this report, which state that proof of adequate retirement cover is a prerequisite for third-country nationals obtaining some rights or the same rights, are equally subjective. We cannot invite people to the European Union only to say "pay your taxes here, but do not expect any social services or social benefits in return". That is perpetuating a second-class citizen status. Two hundred years ago our ancestors charged around the world, colonising and abusing distant countries. We have a right and a duty now to set society straight and to put our own house in order. We must urge all Member States to educate our own citizens much more fully as to the benefits and positive advantages of having an integrated society. In a few years there will come a time when new EU Member States will be crying out for third-country nationals to come to help them with their economies and to fill employment vacancies. We must have things sorted out by then. Notwithstanding Mr Posselt's angle on this question, and the Council's response – neither of which I disagree with – would the President-in-Office agree that, sadly, forced prostitution, child prostitution and trafficking in human beings are all also consequences of and an inevitable feature of poverty-ridden states which lack better economic opportunities. Whether we like it or not, it is true. The parallel that the Minister makes as a 21st century equivalent of slavery may be true on one hand, but there is also another angle on it. Does the Council consider that much greater investment in and economic support and assistance for these countries bordering the new external frontiers of the European Union – and in the Balkans – will be essential when we have enlarged the European Union? President-in-Office, what action do you personally feel would be a good idea for either the Irish presidency or any future presidencies to take? . – British Labour members of the PES have voted in support of the Lambert report. We are convinced that the way forward for the European Union is to move towards a common EU policy on asylum. This report on minimum standards is one important part of the evolution of this common policy. We reject the hard right-wing view of those conservatives in the EPP who seek to restrict the right to asylum and protection. As socialists, we believe that it is essential to be compassionate and sympathetic in our approach. In working towards a common policy for fifteen countries and ultimately twenty-five, there will always be some variations in detail. We believe these differences should not be used to divide us in our efforts to find compromises, instead we should be proud enough to build on the common ground that unites us. Therefore, whilst there are some aspects of the Lambert report which we as Labour MEPs might question, the overall direction of the report is undoubtedly sound, hence our vote in favour. . – Mr President, I cannot disguise my disappointment that the report has just been rejected. I would say to those who voted against it and to the members of the PPE-DE Group that I hope they realise they have just voted against greater cooperation in matters of asylum in the European Union; they have voted against sharing best practice in measures as we move towards a common asylum policy; they have voted against looking at good ideas and sharing those ideas ...  They have voted against measures to make certain that we are absolutely clear that people do not abuse the asylum system for terrorist purposes. Those are the things we were looking at and it has been rejected by members of the PPE-DE Group. That is a disappointment for this House. – Madam President, on a point of order. You will be aware from the press and television that there have been a number of bomb explosions and killings in Sri Lanka. One of the people assassinated very recently in Sri Lanka was Mr Kumar Ponnambalam, who had visited the European Parliament just a few months ago. Would it be appropriate for you, Madam President, to write a letter to the Sri Lankan President expressing Parliament's regret at his and the other violent deaths in Sri Lanka and urging her to do everything she possibly can to seek a peaceful reconciliation to a very difficult situation? – Mr President, on that last vote, I would just like to inform the House that the Commission issued a press release yesterday and Commissioner Reding spoke last night to the effect that, as regards the report we have just passed and agreed on mobility for teachers, students, academics, others involved in education, and helping them to move around Europe to study, to work and everything else related to the education field, the Commission will not accept the amendments which ask them to do something to enforce these arrangements. We have exchanged all the happy words and have asked Member States to take action but the Commission, because of restrictions on its budget and reasons that it has given before, is now indicating that is not prepared to follow through to see how the measures are being implemented in the different countries, which to my mind rather neuters the whole report that Parliament spent a long time putting together. This is also very sad for thousands of students and others involved in education across Europe. () – Mr President, first of all I would like to apologise to the rapporteur that I was unable to be here at the beginning. I have only just arrived in the Parliament because of delays. I welcome the fact that we are able to have a debate on the fundamental rights within the European Union. It is very important, particularly when we are urging the applicant countries – and indeed countries which are not yet applicant countries – to address certain issues, that we should be prepared to look openly at ourselves. Having said that, I regret some of the statements made in the report criticising the United Kingdom and other countries, on matters to which there are no easy answers. I refer particularly to the points about asylum and immigration with regard to the United Kingdom, which is not perfect on these issues, but which is faced with a real challenge. This is not an easy situation. The United Kingdom, along with many other countries within Europe, has many applicants for asylum, and there are large numbers of people on the move, seeking to migrate from one country to the other. We need to work towards a common European asylum policy. When this is in place, we will be able to make certain that not just the fifteen Member States, but twenty-five countries, have policies that are working and are fair to the countries themselves and to applicants. The report contains references (at second hand) to prison facilities in the United Kingdom and indeed in other Member States. However, it is very difficult to spend huge amounts of money on prisons when there are demands from other areas. It is indeed a mark of a civilised country that it takes its prison service seriously, and all allegations in the United Kingdom, and I imagine in other countries, against malpractice or cruelty in prisons are properly investigated. The same is true of the police service, and the British police take seriously any allegations of malpractice or racism by police officers. It is right that we are able to have this debate, it is right that these issues are being brought to our attention, but I do not believe that the United Kingdom should be singled out any more than other countries. Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Coelho for his work in bringing this report before Parliament. I am sure that, like me, he is deeply impressed with the vast amount of support he has received from his colleagues in the PPE-DE Group and that side of the House in the list of speakers before us tonight. Notwithstanding that, this is an important issue. He has told us of the 1.2 million vehicles stolen in the European Union. Clearly, in every country there is a percentage of criminals who do not abide by laws and regulations. Presumably – and he may know better than I – these thieves have differing motives for their crimes. We must remember that a fraction – albeit a very small one – of these car thieves have very serious ulterior motives. Whether they are involved in illegal drugs, the supplying of illegal weapons or international terrorism, these are international issues which cross European borders. Colleagues have expressed worries about data protection and concerns as to whether there are sufficiently robust safeguards contained in the Schengen Agreement. From the United Kingdom's point of view, it means that there will now be access to international data that will help in the fight against international cross-border crime, which we all take very seriously. There are also those who are concerned about the idea of direct access to the data and the question as to whether there are sufficient guarantees for the protection of the data and the protection of citizens, and whether we are setting a dangerous precedent here. I share and understand those concerns. Nevertheless, as responsible citizens and elected representatives of the people, we need to do what we can in the fight against serious crime. The theft of vehicles is of course very important, but it is what it leads on to and all other aspects connected with it that must focus our attention. – I was very interested in the Commissioner's response and her definition of languages, which is well known in this House. I fully support the notion of providing financial assistance to minority and lesser-spoken languages, and like many colleagues I am familiar with the educational programmes and the work of the Bureau. As the Commissioner knows, respect for someone else's language, respect for that person and his or her culture and customs, helps support the integration of those communities. In that vein, can I ask the Commissioner to at least consider, perhaps by means of a study or a survey, giving support for re-defining the definition and including other languages perhaps non-European in origin, but still spoken and understood by many people, languages understood across many EU states – Urdu, Hindi, Bengali and Tamil, to name but a few. I realise that this is a significant suggestion, but my fear is that if we do not at least consider this, we will be sending a very divisive message to many ethnic minority communities at a key time of integration. In effect we will be saying that languages spoken by a few hundred people in some cases, and I agree with the support of those languages, are more important to the EU than others spoken by hundreds of thousands. I wonder whether the Commissioner would be prepared to consider that? – Mr President, each of the countries referred to in this report is different and each of the plans varies accordingly. I will speak only about Sri Lanka, a country I have visited, and a country many of whose citizens have sought refuge in London and other parts of the European Union. It is a country, President, in which a civil war has raged for the past eighteen years – eighteen years which have seen the proportion of defence spending by the Sri Lankan government rise steadily. This money is spent fighting a war that the Sri Lankan government cannot win and it is a war that the Tamils cannot win either. The only solution must be a brokered peace. It could be that the European Union, with its historical links, could act as that intermediary. My colleague, Anna Terrón, has said that this report is naïve. I feel that the report skirts around the real issue and is a diversion from the debate that we ought to be having on Sri Lanka and the other countries. The report says that there is no end to the ethnic conflict in Sri Lanka. It speaks of human rights abuses, cases of aid not reaching the most desperate areas and of economic deprivation. That is the effect of the war and it says that we should work more closely with the Sri Lankan government. Yet it is they who are controlling what we know and it is they who control what coverage we get and we must be circumspect. We all know about the well-publicised cases of Tamil action against government forces. We have heard less about the hospitals and schools being destroyed and of torture by Sri Lankan government troops. So when the report says, Mr President, that we should look for ways to find a political solution to this conflict, I agree. Nothing else matters. Nothing else will solve the problems or lessen the human rights abuses. Nothing short of a cessation of the conflict will end the misery of the Tamils in Sri Lanka and nothing else will end the number of people seeking refuge in the European Union. Nothing else will stop people from fleeing the country. A high-level action plan, Mr President, that does not recognise these fundamental reports is – I would argue – not worth the paper it is written on. – Mr President, following that completely incomprehensible diatribe from our colleague over there, I want to make a serious contribution, although the situation with the recommendation being rejected is somewhat different. Along with my British Labour colleagues of the PSE, I voted in favour of the underlying principles and sentiments of the Ceyhun report. In doing so, we recognised that the proposals were far from perfect but they did at least attempt to address the present situation. The European Union and individual countries must do more to address the problems and circumstances in the countries of origin that cause people to seek refuge in the European Union. Progress in this area cannot be made overnight and, in the meantime, the interests of desperate people, understandably fleeing from conflict, persecution or other hardship, are not well served by pushing them into the hands of the unscrupulous and those seeking to make money out of trafficking people. The situation of organisations who assist asylum-seekers and refugees has been raised as a contentious issue, but the report recognises that these are legally recognised organisations, responsible and established NGOs, many of whom have a strong and proud record of supporting the very people that this report seeks to assist. In voting for the Ceyhun report we recognise the complexities of this issue and will continue to work for a full and common asylum system for the European Union that has humanity and the interests of the most vulnerable at its core. – Mr President, this is nothing to do with aeroplanes, although I could speak about flights if you wished me to. I want to refer partly to a point of order and partly to yesterday's Minutes. As you will recall, the first thirteen items of yesterday's agenda took the best part of an hour to get through. We then had the privilege of the Prime Minister of Portugal speaking. At the moment the Prime Minister spoke about half the Chamber got up to walk out. This may have been because they had other meetings, or whatever, but it is a gross discourtesy for people to walk out when the Prime Minister is speaking. I would ask you to ask the political groups and Parliament to try to ensure that when there are heads of state or prime ministers speaking in this Parliament there are not other meetings happening at the same time, which give people the opportunity to walk out. – Madam President, the President-in-Office has said that if you were to ask the people in Member States what they want you would get a clear message. This Tampere motion is, I believe, part of that message. It is one example of the people’s agenda. If enacted at Tampere and enforced by Member State Governments it will show to some of our more Eurosceptic citizens that real progress is being made. Many of them are not really concerned about the extension of qualified majority voting, important as that is, but they are anxious for progress on citizens’ rights, progress on free movement, progress towards a real integrated Europe where people know and understand their rights and responsibilities. You pointed out the importance of this agenda when we are moving towards a successful enlargement of the European Union, setting our own House in order. Freedom, justice, security and transparency before we enlarge is, I am sure many would agree, absolutely crucial. It is a Europe that builds on what we have in common and does not set up barriers to highlight our differences. Earlier Mr Camre spoke against support for poorer countries. I say to him and others that you cannot have real prosperity and real security for 350 million people in 15 countries if you deny hope and similar rights to your neighbours. Walls, weapons and iron curtains are not the answer to asylum-seekers and refugees. That is why the success of the Tampere Summit and this resolution are so important. Some UK Members on this side of the House may have reservations about one or two points but we fully believe in the principles of this resolution, the points that are practical and enforceable. I feel very optimistic that the Tampere Summit will not just be a positive step forward but will become a historically significant summit. I wish the Finnish presidency every success. – Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mrs Buitenweg on the report she has put forward. She has had a very difficult task; getting a consensus on this issue is impossible. However, to get a good majority, I believe, is possible. That majority will largely reflect the views of the people across the European Union. No-one would argue with the fact that we need to seek to reduce the devastating consequences of drug abuse for drug abusers, their families and society as a whole. There is nothing in the report that is contrary to that. We have heard some amazing things from Mr Pirker, Mr Santini, Mr Blokland and others which make one wonder how they chose to interpret the remarks in this report. Mr Pirker, you said a few minutes ago that if you voted in favour of this report, you would be against the health of our young people. Furthermore you said that if you voted in favour of this report you would be helping drug dealers. Really, if you read that into this report, I suggest that you go back and have another read of it. Moreover, if you want your group – the PPE-DE Group – to take that line, I must tell you that it is not just a simplification of the situation, it is a distortion, a gross misrepresentation of what is in the report. People have spoken about zero tolerance. There is absolutely no evidence that zero tolerance is a serious, effective, or even practical policy to follow when we are trying to address this issue. You only have to look at history, at Prohibition in the USA, when there was zero tolerance of alcohol: what a wonderful success that was in solving all the problems they had in the United States! It will not work. There is no evidence to support zero tolerance. I agree with Mrs Boogerd-Quaak when she said that no-one knows the real answer. There is no easy solution. But I believe that in voting for this report we are not saying that the conventions have to be changed but that there is room for an in-depth evaluation. That is why I will be voting for it: to be realistic, to accept society as it is; to be modernistic in our approach; and to be outward-looking. Yes, Mr Pirker, I am looking at the same report as you. We must be outward-looking in this Parliament. – Madam President, I thank the rapporteur and the Commission for bringing forward this important report, dealing as it does in a sound way with significant matters. We in this Parliament must endeavour to do all we can to make it easier for European citizens to move freely around the Union. It is somewhat anomalous that, at the moment, it is easier to move goods or capital around the European Union than it is for European citizens to move around. Mr Vitorino said at the beginning that free movement is subject to too many obstacles, and Mrs Buitenweg has just given some examples that make this obvious. If the European Union is to move closer to the citizen, we have to make it much more of a common market for people than it is at the moment. However, just as with business, in order for this to function efficiently there must be regulations. For example, British pensioners retiring to Spain and others travelling from one country to another for work must be freed from unnecessary bureaucracy and excessive red tape. If we are to meet our target of making the European Union the most competitive economy in the world by 2010, and make it as easy for EU citizens to move from one Member State to another, as it is for US citizens to move from one state to another in the United States, then we need a free flow of European nationals moving between countries to live and work. This is about European citizens and their families being able to move around freely for work and to live; it is about teenagers getting residence permits in the country in which they have grown up. However, there are aspects of this report which could be misinterpreted or abused. That is why we need to build in a few extra clauses. My own government is concerned to ensure that our efforts to facilitate freedom of movement for legitimate EU nationals do not open new channels that could be exploited by criminal gangs and others. As we are all too aware, we live in a dangerous world. There is a minority – albeit it a very small minority - of people who may want to exploit for illegal and violent purposes the freedom of movement that this report facilitates. Therefore, we should not deny Member States the right to exclude people where there is a proven threat to national security. We need a few other safeguards to protect people from the hazards of modern living. I endorse what Mr Di Lello Finuoli said: the real issue is not whether people are married or with whom they are in a lasting relationship. The Treaty guarantees the right of all citizens to family life and we, as a Parliament, are empowered to uphold this. Others have spoken about this. Legitimate and lasting partnerships should never be put under threat. On the other hand, as a balance, perhaps we need to ensure that there are safeguards to discourage the small minority who might want to use marriage as an avenue to gain illegal entry. It is about free movement for people and freedom to live their lives as they wish: a free market for people, a common market for EU citizens and their families. Mr President, as you will be aware, the debate on this report only concluded just before the vote. This is a very complex and important report. There have been a number of problems regarding amendments such as the order of the amendments and how they have been grouped together. Because of this complexity and because of the importance of the report, I would like to propose that the vote be delayed until tomorrow to give people more time to gather their thoughts and to take into account what the Commissioner and others have said this morning. I am asking for the vote to be postponed until tomorrow. – Mr President, with your permission I should like to move a technical oral amendment, which the Commissioner has just referred to, so that Amendment No 1 reads at the end, "The action plan for mobility adopted by the Council on 14 December 2000 and also approved at the Nice European Council", and Amendment No 3 deletes "agreed at the Nice Summit", because I have just referred to it in Amendment No 1. – Mr President, Mrs Gebhardt began by saying that Europe is an area in which people feel secure. Indeed, security was the  for what has become the European Union today. The pioneers sought to make a peaceful Europe and they, of course, succeeded. Nowadays, we are at peace and people expect to be safe, but too often the European Union is accused of meddling in things that are not important and too much of what the European Parliament appears to do is irrelevant to ordinary peoples' lives. Sometimes we discover a real area that needs legislation and yet we are powerless to act. As Mrs Banotti and Mr Cashman have pointed out, this is an area that needs legislation and where, I believe, European action would be positively welcomed. The cases of access we have heard about; in which parents are denied access to their children, are desperately distressing. They make the misery of separation even worse. Being separated by time and space, by hundreds of kilometres and expensive flights, is painful and distressing for parents and children. President, Commissioner, over the years Parliament, the Council and the Commission have all worked to secure a common market for goods and capital, fair trade and free trade for those with money. Now we need to make certain that we have, a fair market and a free trade for people so that families and children can work and move around with rules that are fair, rules that work and European institutions that enforce them. Mr Cashman said that the European Union is fifteen countries. He is right, but with the addition of ten or twelve more countries in the pipeline, I shudder to think of the possibilities in this area if we do not act and do not succeed in getting legislation that works – legislation that will make the European Union safe and secure for all its citizens, children and parents alike. – Mr President, I want to speak for a few moments on the Ludford report on countering racism in the European Union. This is a very important topic. It is crucial for the construction of a peaceful and harmonious Europe, a Europe united in its objective and at ease with itself and its citizens. That is certainly what we, on this side of the House, believe. That is what this report aims to do. But the EPP it seems, and others opposite, clearly do not want that. We heard a few moments ago a disgraceful speech from Mr Gollnisch on behalf of his party. Mrs Palacio, who is just leaving, has said that human rights are needed in a public place and at the core. And yet, by their amendments to the Ludford report, they seek to divide Europe and to make millions of our brothers and sisters from the ethnic minorities second-class citizens. That is the clear aim of the amendments in the name of Mr Hernandez Mollar and his colleagues and this is consistent throughout all the amendments on behalf of the EPP – the so-called European People's Party – which actually reveals itself in its amendments as a party for some of the people but not all of them. The EPP's amendments seek to divide families. They object to family unity. Their Amendment No 12 seeks to delete reference to the need for family unity in Europe. The EPP, it seems, do not accept that ethnic minorities feel alienated from the electoral process. They do not feel that the European Parliament and national parliaments should reflect Europe's diverse ethnic nature. That is the aim of Amendment No 13. It deletes that from the report. They are against ethnic diversity and they do not accept the benefits given to our society by all its people. They do not accept that everyone has a part to play in the electoral process. We cannot complain about what is going on in the candidate states if we have amendments like this being put forward in the European Union. Nor, it seems, does the EPP believe that ethnic minorities should be encouraged to vote. Their Amendment No 21 deletes the call for encouragement to the ethnic minority to take part in elections to vote or stand as candidates. Is that what we want? I do not think it is. We, on this side of the House, reject that position completely. We will publicise the EPP position and their amendments whether they are passed or not. We deplore the line that Mr Hernandez Mollar and his colleague have put forward. We urge the Liberal Group to dissociate themselves from their links with the EPP over the amendments because it has shown itself to have racist instincts in its party. Should the EPP amendments to this report be adopted we will oppose the whole report. The EPP amendments weaken the report and would make the position of this Parliament worse than at the moment. It would make it so weak that it would be one that we could not support. It would be a retrograde step. So, I urge all colleagues to reject the amendments put forward by the European People's Party and their colleagues on the far right. . – My colleagues and I, the British Labour members of the PSE have voted in favour of some aspects of the Kirkhope report. In doing so, we recognised that the proposals were far from perfect but that they did at least attempt to address part, albeit just one part, of the present unsatisfactory situation. The European Union and individual countries must do more to address the problems and circumstances in the countries of origin that cause people to seek refuge in the European Union. Progress in this area cannot be made overnight and in the meantime the interests of desperate people, understandably fleeing from conflict, persecution or other hardship, are not well served by pushing them into the hands of the unscrupulous and the criminals; those who seek to make a living out of trafficking people. It is the responsibility of everyone to ensure that traffickers do not profit. Several of my colleagues and I have been to Calais and seen what goes on there. I have witnessed first hand the very casual attitude of many of the lorry drivers and their companies. These carriers must do more – they must properly check all vehicles and all modes of transport to try to avoid another Dover-type tragedy. All the companies who own the lorries and other vehicles and all carriers of all types must take responsibility for their actions – corporate responsibility from the top downwards. Equally, there is rationale behind trying to approximate the fines across the different States to ensure that we have a combined front against these traffickers. This in turn means that all Member States, Britain, France, Belgium and the others alike, must ensure that there are proper systems in place and that the laws are enforced. In supporting some parts of the Kirkhope report we recognised the complexities of the issue and will continue to work for a full and comprehensive common asylum system for the European Union, one that has humanity and the interests of the most vulnerable at its core. As ever, I have listened with admiration to the presentation and comments by the Commissioner. He spoke about managing migration and legal migration. Could he take the opportunity, in the light of the hysteria in some areas of the British press about what will happen in terms of migration when enlargement takes place, to outline some of the initiatives I know he has put in place that will ensure that migration from the new Eastern European members of the European Union will be sensible, and controlled in such a way that it will be mutually beneficial to the citizens of those countries and to the existing Member States of the European Union? I am alarmed to hear the Commissioner's conclusions because it certainly does not seem that the trophy hunting to which I referred is being done with the aim of conservation at all. I logged on to a website this afternoon, which would have given me the opportunity to go to Tanzania. It offers the 'discerning sportsman' the ultimate hunting experience: large buffalo, lion, water buck, very rare East African sitatunga, leopards, antelopes, etc. My information is that in the last six years British people have been abroad and shot at least 40 African elephants, 32 leopards, 18 polar bears, six hippos – I could go on. Worldwide, this is something like over 3 800 African elephants, over 2 600 rare leopards and 9 000 bears. These are not being slaughtered in the interests of conservation, or with any reference to conversation in the areas. It is trophy hunting: people who go out and shoot big game and come home proudly but sickeningly with a trophy of the head of a rare animal. Would the Commissioner think again, and would she agree to meet me to go through some of these statistics, to see some of the evidence and to put in place a ban on the import of CITES-listed animals into the European Union? – Mr President, Mr Vitorino said at the beginning of this debate that it is important and sensitive legislation. Nobody would dispute that. Equally nobody would deny that in today's climate there is a need for strong international cooperation, sharing ideas, thoughts, data and intelligence. But I hope that Council will look at the report of this debate and will not use this legislation to ride roughshod over accepted values and practices in the European Union. Mr Hernández Mollar, the rapporteur, said that we cannot accept standards lower than those we would demand ourselves in the European Union. Mr Coûteaux a few minutes ago echoed these ideas. I believe that we are not just talking about Europeans – we are looking at the fundamental rights of people in the United States too. A number of Members in this House have serious reservations about that, and that is why we are concerned about some elements in this piece of legislation. President Bush has promised that the United States will always stand firm for equal justice. If that is true, he and others must call an immediate halt to the practice of executions in the United States. Over the last 25 years over 840 people have been executed following many of the murders in the United States. Murders are carried out equally by white people and black people, and yet some 15 times as many black Americans have been executed as white people. Black people are often tried before all-white juries, so we should have great concern about any Europeans being extradited to the United States and we must question even more the whole American legal system that allows that. My second point regards Guantánamo Bay, Camp Delta, a kind of US-run gulag for foreign captives held indefinitely without being charged. Mr Santini says we should leave that to another time. Mr Santini, your PPE-DE Group voted against this in committee, and you represent the Christian Democrat party. I have looked at all the details of Guantánamo Bay and I cannot see that it satisfies any Christian or democratic principles. I am surprised that you voted against it in committee. I hope you will think again when you come to vote on it in this vote today. – Mr President, this is a very timely report. We know the importance of the entry of third-country nationals for temporary periods of study, which brings enormous benefits and advantages for the host country and the student alike. The number of students undertaking such international exchanges is greater than ever and demand continues to grow. This must be welcomed by all sides, apart from the previous speaker. Indeed we need to put into place measures to ensure that the European Union continues to remain a centre of excellence in this field. I congratulate the rapporteur on this report. It sets a broad framework to encourage third-country nationals to enjoy the best educational facilities available in Member States without over-prescribing and over-regulating. Common practices to facilitate the movement of third-country nationals can only be a good thing. However, I am afraid certain elements of this proposal are problematic for my country, the United Kingdom. Colleagues will be aware that the United Kingdom and the English language have a magnetic appeal for huge numbers of students, not just from European Union countries, but from all over the world. Whilst this is welcomed and understandable, it creates special challenges, not least of which are the proposals here and how they affect the national minimum wage in the United Kingdom. The national minimum wage is one of the greatest steps forward in the United Kingdom since 1997. It requires employers not to take on third-country nationals unless they are paid at least the going rate for the job. Unfortunately aspects of this report, referring to volunteers, undermine the minimum wage in the United Kingdom, which seeks to protect the rights of both migrants and nationals, ensuring that those engaged on a voluntary basis, without adequate conditions of service, are not there in place of a full- or part-time worker. The concerns are specific to the United Kingdom. In general the report is balanced and sensible. I shall be voting for it in the hope that the UK will be joining later on, as in other cases. Madam President, I welcome this report and want to pay tribute to the rapporteur, Mr Santini, because he has worked very hard on it. It has been a lengthy process and he has made a tremendous amount of progress. That we have arrived at this point does great credit to him and everybody else who has worked on this dossier. He said it is a question of simplifying formalities. That in itself is something of a simplification, because it is a lot more than that and, as the Commissioner himself just said, it brings together a very complex network of existing measures. It is very important that what we are doing here is seen and publicised. Over the years the EU has been very good at creating free markets for goods and capital. We are now moving in the direction of creating a free market for people so that they can move around with their families and partners. The remarks by Mr Oostlander give cause for some alarm, because if we go down the avenue of saying that there must be a clear concept of what a family is then we are undermining the whole process. Mr Oostlander spoke of the official registration of partnerships with the government. I think Mr Santini would agree that is a difficult and contentious area and one which, if reopened, will negate much of the valuable work that has been done. This common position may not be ideal. There are areas where we on this side of the House would have liked more progress, be this the three-to-six-month timescale, the prevention of expulsions or the definition of humanitarian reasons, etc. There are aspects that are not perfect. However, if it is an improvement on what we have at the moment then we should support it. It is indeed an improvement, we will be voting for it and I commend it to the House. – Mr President, I am delighted to see that Commissioner Byrne is here this morning because, as Chairman of the European Parliament's Intergroup on the Welfare and Conservation of Animals, I was very disappointed to receive a letter from Commissioner Byrne saying he was unable to come and meet our intergroup in the next three, four, five or six months to discuss issues concerning animal welfare, in particular the live transport of animals. I hope the Commissioner will reconsider this and find some space in his obviously very hectic diary. – I would also like to welcome Mr Haarder in his new role. I was spurred into action by Mr Haarder saying that he did not wish to awaken hope in some countries like Georgia, to which Mr Dupuis referred. I know from my experience of Romania – which is 11th or 12th in the list of countries waiting to join the EU – that the one thing that holds that country together is the light at the end of the tunnel, the hope that it will be able to join the European Union, its rich neighbours, in a prosperous club. If you are saying to other countries – whether Georgia or some of the former Yugoslav Republics – that we will not awaken hope for them, is there not the danger that they will be pushed into unrest, internal strife, possibly violence, and the pressures for migration to the West will be increased? President-in-Office, would you clarify the position? – I have joined with my British Labour colleagues in the PSE Group in voting against this report. As President of the European Parliament's All Party Intergroup on the Welfare and Conservation of Animals, I naturally have a special interest in the Kreissl-Dörfler report. I support measures to prevent a similar outbreak of foot and mouth disease, as proposed in the report. I reject claims regarding the legality of the cull. Whilst very regrettable, the cull was perceived at the time as the most effective measure to end the outbreak. It is very easy to be wise in hindsight. The approach of the UK Government with respect to the culls was approved by the European Commission. Any report such as this requires accurate information. As, for example, the statistics quoted appear to be contrary to official UK figures, it brings into question the wider points of the report. For this reason, and with reservations as above, I have voted against the report. – Mr President, do I understand it that you are therefore not able to confirm what I asked? You are not confirming that the building satisfies health and safety and fire regulations? You said you will look at it and try to clarify the situation. What I am asking is: are you able to categorically confirm that the building satisfies these regulations, yes or no? .– The UK Labour Members of the PES support the spirit of this Resolution, but have reservations regarding some of its content. We do not support the inclusion of the European Public Prosecutor in this text (paragraph five). The Resolution seeks to give such a body power over Member States’ territories, which is an inappropriate response to the cooperation between nations the Report called for. The legitimacy of such a body to override national judicial rulings would be questionable, and the judicial discretion of Member States’ legal authorities should be preserved. In addition, some parts of the text are potentially ambiguous with areas of legal confusion e.g. paragraph nine on indirect sanctions to be applied to Member States (paragraph nine) and the call to extend the powers of the European Court of Justice in its rulings over instruments decided outside the sphere of the EU. Finally, the UK Labour Members support cooperation in criminal matters, but have reservations concerning the reference to the ‘harmonisation of criminal laws’ in paragraph thirteen, which suggests that Member States should standardise criminal law throughout the EU. Whilst this may be desirable in some areas, cooperation in criminal matters should focus on information sharing, coordination of bodies with some approximation of laws where this is beneficial, but not as a general rule. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Oostlander and Mr von Boetticher for their reports. I will concentrate my remarks on the Oostlander report and the ARGO system. We recognise that a common approach to immigration, to the question of visas and asylum and our external borders is essential. I do not believe the European Union is functioning properly if we do not have such a common approach. We are moving towards this, and we need to have a realistic and modern interpretation that recognises the situation in Europe and the rest of the world as it is, not one that pretends the situation is different or imagines it as we would like it to be. I want to address Amendments Nos 41 and 42 to which Mr Oostlander referred and over which he and I have had discussions because these are very important. I am grateful to Mr Schmidt and Baroness Ludford of the Liberal group for tabling Amendment No 42 because this was the subject of a heated exchange in our committee and it was owing to a slight administrative difficulty that it fell one vote short of being passed in committee. The challenge of No 42, by comparison with No 41, was that Amendment No 42 talks about offering asylum and protection to people who are escaping from State and non-State persecution. It is the non-State persecution to which we must address our attention. We can all think of countries where we do not like the regime and where people are escaping from being harassed, persecuted and attacked by the State, but here, however, we must consider the cases in which these people are escaping from non-State organisations or bodies. I have given examples before about Afghanistan where the Taliban were not recognised as a State. If we did not include this, we would not have been accepting persecution by the Taliban as a reasonable reason for offering asylum to people. Then there are other countries around the World, Somalia for example – about which I am not an expert – where it is difficult to understand what is the State and what is not the State. There are also people fleeing from war-torn countries who need protection. We could have a long list of those countries. So, there are many countries which are divided by forces of one faction or another, some State and some non-State. It may only be a few, but my group believes we should offer protection to them: that is why we will be supporting Amendment No 42, and I think that it should be voted on before Amendment No 41 because it is stronger and moves in a different direction. If, in Amendment No 41, the words 'and current practice' were to be removed, we would not have quite so much of a problem with supporting it because it says 'in accordance with the Geneva Convention' and there are few people in this Chamber who would be opposed to anything to do with the Geneva Convention, which we support. Just a few words on enlargement. This poses a real challenge. We have to sort out the whole question of asylum, visas and immigration before enlargement takes place but we must not then use the question of enlargement to expect the applicant countries to have higher standards than we ourselves are adopting. Many applicant countries are doing very well and their economies and standards of living are approaching those of EU countries. Enlargement is not about building a new, more powerful, stronger external frontier. If we have a very successful European Union, we must not allow that to create a further division between us and the countries which will then be outside a new, enlarged Union of 25 or 27 States. It is about sharing responsibility, about making certain that people have opportunities and rights, and we will be supporting that. . – Mr President, this report comes from a Commission proposal presented in January 2000, a proposal drafted under Articles 149 and 150, which called on the Member States to foster the mobility of people undertaking a course of study, a period of training, voluntary work, or work as a teacher or trainer in another Member State, whether on a Community programme or not. When this recommendation from the Commission was presented to Parliament, it was very quickly clear that it was a flawed document and indeed the Commission accepted this itself. Perhaps with hindsight it might have been easier if we had rejected it some 18 months ago and started again, but we did not and I and colleagues have worked hard to present something to Parliament and to salvage something from it. At our first reading in Strasbourg last October, Parliament voted amendments which I felt would improve the quality of the text, and I announced some of the irregularities and flaws to which I alluded a moment ago. We also sought to extend the scope of the original proposal, for example to include researchers, as had been requested by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. Thirdly, we called on the Member States and the Commission to set targets and precise goals to measure the progress towards the goals that had been set, i.e. to set indicators to monitor them. Colleagues may recall this report came before Parliament at a particularly sensitive time for the Commission. I understand that it was anxious to match action with resources and for that reason it rejected all those amendments that required it to take follow-up action. It did not reject all the amendments, only those that asked it to take follow-up action, something that is particularly important. It also rejected anything related to researchers, which I understood. Since then, I have had lengthy deliberations and negotiations with Commission staff, whom I thank for their time, with the French Presidency, which prioritised this report, and indeed latterly with the Swedish Presidency, which has equally been generous with its time and energy. We looked at ways to cover the following important areas: the nature of voluntary work and administrative, financial, linguistic and cultural obstacles to mobility. The common position which has now been arrived at contributes to the clarity of the text, particularly where it deals with third-country nationals. It rejects, however, most of Parliament's amendments on social security and social protection rights, areas that we felt were crucial for interest groups, for students, teachers and others. This is why we have had to make a few amendments to the common position. I presented six amendments at second reading, which refer in particular to the action plan that stemmed from the Nice Summit, which it is important to refer to because it clarifies many of the points that we wanted to raise. I have asked for some follow-up action from Member States. I have looked at ways in which we can reduce the administrative costs of implementing this recommendation. I have clarified, I hope, the follow-up action that is expected of the Commission and removed an unnecessary and potentially harmful qualification in the common position. All of these amendments are admissible and I have had discussions again with the Swedish Presidency to make certain that they are in line. There will be one or two small technical points that I would like to bring up tomorrow as oral amendments, just to clarify the text and for the sake of linguistic consistency. I want to make the report unambiguously clear so that it can go through and Member States are absolutely clear what is expected of them. As a result of this report we will be taking a few, albeit tentative, steps towards creating mobility for those in education, teachers, students, academics and others, so that they can actually move from one country to another within the European Union, make that a reality and take a first step forward. – Mr President, my point of order relates to Rules 148 and 135 regarding the distribution of the minutes and particularly regarding roll-call votes. All Members have, this morning, received a booklet containing 113 pages of roll-call votes. I am sure this is of interest to a number of Members and there will be a few Members who want to look at it. But in the interests of economy and the environment, I would suggest that Parliament look again, or ask Parliament's services to look again, at the interpretation of the word ‘distribution’. Perhaps the results of roll-call votes could be distributed on the Intranet or made available to Members who need them so that we do not have the waste and the superfluous nature of everybody being distributed with a 113-page document listing roll-call votes. I wonder if you could ask the services to have another look at this please, President. – Mr President, the majority of British Labour Members, myself included, have abstained on the Santini report. Although we support its fundamental objectives, which serve a sound purpose, we are concerned that, as the report stands, the provisions designed to reach this valuable goal do not include sufficient guarantees against potential exploitation by criminal gangs and those seeking to enter the EU illegally. We do not, for example, accept the need to do away with documentary evidence proving family relationship. Furthermore, whilst we wish to protect the rights of unmarried and same-sex partners, we cannot allow a situation to arise where the unmarried partners of EU nationals could have greater rights to enter a Member State than the nationals of that country. Moreover, there must be safeguards to ensure that we do not encourage the use of marriage as an avenue to gain illegal entry. The provisions which seek to soften the economic conditions attached to residence in exceptional circumstances need more work and clarification before a further reading. Finally, we do not accept the provision in Article 26(2) which would prevent Member States from expelling permanent residents in exceptional circumstances. This power is rarely used, but we must reserve the right to use it for serious breaches of public security. Mr President, as is customary I would like to begin my remarks by congratulating the rapporteur. This is done with a bit more sincerity than is sometimes the case as I can give great credit to Mr Pirker. If he had asked me whether it was possible to draft a report on immigration or asylum for our committee and win almost unanimous support for it, or bring it to plenary and find that with a few exceptions it was voted through, I would have said that would have been impossible. However, by sleight of hand and various other tactics, he seems to have managed to present something that is going to command support across Parliament. He deserves credit for that, as do the Commission and the Council for the way it has been presented and brought forward. Mr Pirker and others have highlighted particular aspects and it would be easy to draw attention to them. Indeed, there is a lot to concentrate on, but I do hope that this report is seen as part of a wider package and that we do not lose sight of our overall aim of moving towards not only a common European policy on asylum but also, in parallel, a separate and equally important common European policy on legal immigration. This is reinforced in points 16 and 17. I turn now to the aspect of external borders – points 2, 3, 4 and 5, etc. – and cooperation amongst Member States. I take issue with Mr Blokland and Mr Sørensen, who claim this is entirely a subsidiarity question. Everyone is affected by external borders, even in countries that do not have them. The very nature of migration is such that people do not stay in the first country they get to; they move around. So it is very important for all countries to cooperate and work together, especially, as Mr Pirker has highlighted, in an enlarged European Union of 25 Member States. As we ponder all these issues, it is equally important that we look further afield to those countries just outside the European Union and bear in mind their situation, as well as that of countries further afield which are less prosperous and from which people, for a whole variety of reasons, try to move away. This picks up on a point also alluded to by Mrs Roure. If priorities and finances were directed towards helping these less-developed countries and those in internal conflict, we might be doing as much to address the challenges of migration as we are in all the post-Seville and Thessaloniki projects that have been put into operation. I welcome this report. It is a move in the right direction and I hope very much that it commands the support of Parliament tomorrow. My final point is linguistic and I have made it before. I hope we can in future move away from the term 'burden-sharing' and adopt the term 'responsibility-sharing', because that, and cooperation, is what is involved here. – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his answer and I would like to congratulate Mrs Van Lancker for bringing this forward. On a slightly wider point, I visited, albeit a year or so ago, Bratislava and Kosice with a parliament delegation and we looked at the conditions of the Roma people there. What I saw was that, despite the commitments of the government, the discrimination continues, partly because it seems to be ingrained in the society and almost institutionalised. There are poorer conditions for Roma people, fewer facilities, nowhere near the same number of opportunities and generally they are far more alienated from society, for example in schools where there was no evidence of mother-tongue teaching, no evidence of any Roma teachers at all. As a criterion for membership of the Union, is respect for minority languages and cultures being seriously independently monitored and if so by whom and how? How is the Commission responding to any criticisms that may be coming up? – Mr President, the tragedy at Dover was one of the most appalling incidents that anyone here can recall. A tragedy for the people involved, a tragedy for their family and friends, but also a tragedy for Europe and the European ideal. As a European Parliament, we must do everything we can to prevent a recurrence. This appalling incident was avoidable. Mr Cappato spoke a few moments ago about the controls at Dover. But the authorities in Zeebrugge knew that the lorry in question was suspect. They had never heard of the company on the side of the lorry and the driver paid cash for the ferry. Accordingly, they alerted the port authorities at Dover. Had they checked the vehicle in Belgium some of these lives could certainly have been saved. I thank the Minister for his genuine and honest statement. He spoke about the real culprits, the organizers. And of course he is right that we must fight organized crime and global trafficking, but identifying the culprits is only part of the battle. We must do more to support the countries from which these people came and improve the conditions there. Can we here in Strasbourg even begin to contemplate the misery and desperation that drove those Chinese people to spend months travelling in clandestine fashion halfway across the world? And their prospects? Probably to work in Chinese restaurants satisfying Westerners' desire for Chinese food. But to do this they died a tragic and desperate death because as Europeans we failed to come up with common and workable procedures for asylum and immigration and that must be on all our consciences. . I voted against the Maat report because it does not do enough to protect the welfare of animals. It is a disgrace that animals are transported alive to be slaughtered. Even if this is to happen journeys must be a maximum of eight hours and then it must be in properly maintained vehicles, with food and water. This report as voted is a bitter disappointment, as is the Commission's original ill-prepared proposal. – Mr President, I respect your tenureship of the chair and I yield to no one in that, but I wonder how you can justify the fact that you indicate a time and then in the case of several speakers absolutely ignore it. I do not cast any judgement over the previous speakers or the substance of their remarks, but, if people have been allocated a period of three minutes, to give them 50% more is insulting to those people who have spoken earlier and have kept rigidly to their time. I wonder whether you could justify why you have decided to ignore the clock? Mr President, I would like to start by echoing the point made by Minister Roche in his introduction that it is to the European Union's enormous credit that we can produce this critical self-appraisal, this report on human rights within the EU. It is very easy to criticise other parts of the world; it is more difficult, and to our credit, that we are prepared to look within the European Union, the European Parliament, the European Commission and the governments working together to make a more democratic institution – not by any stretch of the imagination a super-state that needs to be feared, as we might read in the papers. As Commissioner Vitorino quite rightly said, there are many positive points that we can take on board from this; and we can build on good practice from one country to another. I also agreed both with him and with Minister Roche when they spoke of the need to develop a modern interpretation of the Geneva Convention on refugees. The situation today is different from the post-war era of 1951, but the challenges may be similar, even if the practicalities will be different. We all need to cooperate if we are to implement its principles. Nothing could be more important for an EU of 25 countries than to have a common European policy on immigration and, alongside but separate, a common European policy for asylum. The rapporteur has referred to the need for this and I commend her on her work. As she says, it must not be based on the lowest common denominator; rather, a system that will gain the most respect and be the least subject to criticism will be based on the highest possible standards, will respect families, and will respect human rights. – I abstained on the final vote on this report on the basis of my speech on Wednesday evening. I am not in any way against the intentions or sentiments of the report but solely in respect of the action plan on Sri Lanka. I believe that it is inadequate and that there is far too little attention paid to the need to seek a political solution in Sri Lanka. It is all too apparent that we cannot rely on the Sri Lankan government to give independent access to politicians or journalists to the war zones, nor for impartial evidence on what is really happening regarding human rights abuses and allegations of torture and similar practices by, or with the tacit approval of, the Sri Lankan government. The war in Sri Lanka, President, is one that neither side can win and unless and until there are peace negotiations there will always be applications for asylum seekers in the west, almost all of whom will be Tamils. The European Parliament I believe has a role to play in arguing that the European Union must bring pressure to bear on the Sri Lankan government to seek peace. Europe can be the peace intermediary to bring such a peaceful solution to the island of Sri Lanka and peace for the Tamil and Sinhalese communities and others in Sri Lanka. My Group and I are pleased to have voted for and supported the Ludford report which is concerning the important subject of the fight against racism and xenophobia. Those who have voted to oppose family unity; to oppose encouragement for ethnic minorities to participate in elections; against a policy force that reflects Europe's diversity and against multi-ethnic parliaments are to be deplored and condemned. The British Labour members and the PSE Group voted in favour of Amendment 2 to delete paragraph 17, not because we opposed the sentiments and intentions, but as it was open to possible misinterpretation or charges of ambiguity. The fight against the racists and xenophobes in our society, those who seek to divide Europe, is one that must and will be won. – Mr President, unlike some of the previous speakers, I want to go back to the words of our Portuguese ministers and Mr Vitorino. This trio's words were like music to our ears as Mr Ceyhun has said. As with all music it needs to be a fine tune and properly orchestrated. Many of us of here are very optimistic about the next six months. The tune that will be played will be one that the people of Europe will be listening to and they will want to hear the right sort of tune. As described this afternoon it will go a long way towards drowning out some of the unpleasant tunes we heard during the European election and over the last few months. The Amsterdam Treaty and the Tampere Council built on this project for an area of freedom, security and justice in the European Union. One area though is extremely important, and this House must be involved in it: namely scrutiny. There is so much legislation – and I very much welcome the Portuguese programme that was outlined to us last week – but we need to be absolutely sure that it is scrutinised, that the people in this Parliament and the members of the national parliaments and the citizens of Europe are aware of everything involved in it. And we must make certain that the details are applicable, appropriate and relevant to the different countries. I should like to draw attention to some of the aspects of the resolutions before us this afternoon, one or two of which were referred to earlier on. I welcome the movement towards the recognition of judicial systems in the various countries and the cooperation on crime. That is an area that European citizens will respond to and will be happy about. But the Commission and Council must know that there are many people in this House who have reservations about the Eurodac system, for example. We accept the predominant role of the Council in this, but there are reservations and I am sure that the Council will listen to the words coming from the elected parliamentarians here when they go through it in more detail. Mr Schulz said earlier on that he was not certain about the definition of ‘scoreboard’. Anyone who is English or British or follows cricket knows what a scoreboard is. A scoreboard tells people the score; it has to be up-to-date and it has to be clear and visible. I am sure that Commissioner Vitorino will make certain that is so. At the end of six months I hope that the music is still playing and that the European people are still listening. – Mr President, this is a very important report and it approaches a difficult subject. Despite the best efforts of the rapporteur, there will still be those who will seek to get around it and to look at every way to carry on with their dirty dealings. Baroness Ludford spoke quite rightly about the effects of this on the City of London and the legal profession. She is a lawyer or barrister by profession and perhaps she should have declared an interest. She will know that all of these professions and their associated professions – accountants and auditors – will look at any possibility to help their clients. Those clients may be involved in all sorts of dodgy transactions. They should be covered. Only by concerted effort by all those parties concerned internationally will we be able to tackle the industry of money laundering. I would like to tackle money lending as well, but that is another issue. I have been seriously lobbied by the British banks about Amendment No 17, which they do not like because it tries to prevent people they do not know from paying in huge amounts of cash. This is just the sort of thing we have to tackle if money laundering is to be challenged properly. If it affects Internet banking, as they suggest, then there must be other ways that they can verify the credentials of people who are applying for accounts. Money laundering is linked to organised crime. We know that. It is linked to drug smuggling, terrorism and forgery of bank notes. I agree with Mrs Sörensen. Those who are developing the euro plan to bring in a EUR 500 note – approximately GBP 300, well over ten times the face value of the largest note in common usage in Britain. We have a GBP 50 note which is worth about EUR 80, but that is very rare. So if I were a forger I would start out now forging EUR 500 notes and have a field day for the next few months until people come to terms with it. There are loopholes in this system. We must do everything we can to counter them. – Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report. It is an important area and she has rightly drawn attention to it. It refers to the new powers of the Community over the last few years: rights of asylum, immigration and general cooperation in civil matters. It is therefore crucial that we use these powers to improve the position of victims of crime. At the time of the crime, especially personal, physical or violent crime, many victims, if not all, will be vulnerable, distressed, upset, probably angry, and desperately in need of support. As the rapporteur has said, they do not need to become victims again. Nor do they need to feel that they are being branded almost as criminals themselves. We need to ensure – and this report goes a long way towards it – that the procedures do not negate the situation or make it worse, but rather, that they support and assist the victims. The rapporteur has said that we also need to make certain that safeguards are in place so that there is no intrusion into the privacy of victims. We must in particular draw attention to intrusion or possible intrusion by the press. I am particularly pleased that this report includes support in the language or dialect of the victim of crime because sometimes that is an area that is overlooked. Likewise the necessity for training of police officers and others in authority. Ethnic minorities, very often women, children – those who sometimes find the system difficult – will be the ones who are most at risk in this sort of situation. Those who perhaps are in fear of authority are especially vulnerable. The PSE Group is pleased to support this report and to congratulate the rapporteur. However, there will be no surprise that we will reject those amendments that have been put down in the name of certain members of the TDI Group. Those amendments do not improve the report; rather they are a crude attempt to add the biased, distorted and racist sentiment of the signatories concerned. I congratulate the rapporteur on her work. I congratulate the Commission on bringing this forward, and I wish it every success in the future. – Thank you, Commissioner, for your answer. In my question I referred to similar examples and whilst car prices are perhaps the most widely publicised, there are other examples of companies that are making a mockery of the single market. The Swedish Ikea furniture company, with which you will probably be familiar, provides two examples in their recent catalogues: a mirror cabinet which costs less than GBP 70 if purchased in Denmark costs GBP 94 in the United Kingdom. A corner sofa which costs less than GBP 600 in Denmark costs nearly GBP 875 in the United Kingdom. These are just two examples taken from one company. There are plenty of others where people in the United Kingdom and, for all I know, other Member States, are being exploited by companies. I wonder if the Commission can consider some action to protect consumers who are looking to the European Parliament, looking to the European Commission to protect them as citizens. Can you consider some action in this area, not just limiting it to cars, which is perhaps the most publicised example? – Mr President, I am grateful to Commissioner Vitorino for his work. I speak for some Members on this side of the House in saying that there are concerns about this report. We are not one hundred percent happy. We wish we were not at this stage today, but I look at this from the point of view – which I share with several colleagues, that we do not want asylum seekers to be seen as criminals. Criminals have their fingerprints taken and we need not automatically or in any way assume that asylum seekers ought to be put into this category. Many of them are escaping from terror, from torture, from other experiences. We want to make certain that at our frontiers they are not put through similar experiences and practices again. I accept what Mr Kirkhope said a few minutes ago, that there are frictions and difficulties with the system which need to be sorted out. Other colleagues have referred to the issue of fingerprinting 14-year-olds, which has been very sensitive and very emotive. On this side of the House we are realistic. That is why we are looking for the safeguards that have been put into the report. It is why we would prefer that there be parliamentary scrutiny in the question of Commission versus Council. We believe that Parliament is there to safeguard citizens and make certain that the asylum policy is carried out in the fairest possible way. With those reservations and I know I speak on behalf of several colleagues – I will be following Mrs Terrón’s line. We wish the Commission well in this work. – I must say at the outset that I yield to no one in my condemnation of terrorism and terrorist acts, and this issue affects not just Spain but all countries in the European Union. Mr Aznar spoke recently about the need for dialogue between the Palestinians and the Israeli government in the Middle East peace process. Could the President-in-Office – in either his capacity as representative of the presidency or as representative of the Spanish government – give an example of any previous situation in world history where a policy of non-dialogue with people who are carrying out terrorist attacks in a country such as Spain has ever resolved the situation. There are many people in this Parliament and in Europe who believe that at some stage it will be essential for Spain – however regrettable, however much it dislikes the idea – to enter into a dialogue. If that is not the case, could he give me an example of some situation where non-dialogue has worked? – Mr President, on a point of order, I am very pleased that this report has gone through. We spent a very long time voting on this. Most of these amendments were put down either by members of the technical group of racists or by the EPP on positions that they lost in committee. We should not be spending so long voting on amendments put down when they lost their position earlier on. We could have done it much more quickly because the position has been quite clear. – Mr President, I am very pleased to be able to speak in this debate on European Union cooperation with Bangladesh, a country I know well, a country I was proud to visit with the European Parliament's delegation in the autumn of 1998. There are, of course, a great number of people with Bengali roots settled in London and other parts of the European Union, people originally from Dhaka, Sylhet and other parts of Bangladesh. I know from them and from my visit that Bangladesh is a country of proud, hard-working people and a country with great prospects, but one which does need assistance from the more wealthy and developed parts of the world like the European Union. This report helps provide that support and should be commended, and accordingly I pay warm tribute to the rapporteur and my other colleague. But the rapporteur said something which struck me, as did Mrs Maes. The rapporteur said that state structures in Bangladesh work badly and Mrs Maes derided some of the advances that Bangladesh has made in recent years. Yet in many ways I think that Bangladesh is amazing for the way that it does work. It does work despite its turbulent and violent history, despite the political problems, despite its other difficulties and despite the poverty. It does function and, as the Commissioner has just said, that is amazing considering all the difficulties. I believe that this is fundamentally a credit to the people and indeed to the Government of Bangladesh. Now on the positive side – and some of you from other countries may not be aware of this – Bangladesh has lately been admitted as a full test cricket playing nation. Perhaps more significantly, reserves of natural gas have now been discovered in the Bay of Bengal. The European Parliament has to help ensure that Bangladesh is not exploited by the big multinational companies, that it is able to use its reserves properly and to sell them at the most competitive price, which may not mean just to India or to Russia. The cricket aspect may seem irrelevant but it does show a determination to succeed and Bangladesh will do well in this field of test cricket and this will be an inspiration to millions of people in that country. The report makes it clear that if the European Union works in partnership with local people it can help on big issues. It can help with family planning, the key to stability for Bangladesh. A poor or developing country cannot sustain a birth rate above two children per woman. The idea that a large family is automatically the route out of poverty must be eradicated and women, all women, must be able to choose whether or not to have children. European companies must also make certain that they do not exploit the cheap labour and do not continually perpetuate the working environment in factories, where the women suffer and work very long hours for very little money. Furthermore the European Union has the expertise to help with other problems in Bangladesh – the flooding that we have heard about, that destroys great swathes of the land on a regular basis is not inevitable. Europe has the know-how to prevent the deforestation. We have the knowledge and experience, for example in the Netherlands, to help improve low-lying land and land susceptible to flooding. We, as a European Union, already help Bangladesh with grants, with least-developed country status, and with the preferential access to markets that this brings with it. But we can, I believe, and we must do more. The future of Bangladesh also depends on its youth. To my mind too many of the young people in Bangladesh leave to be educated abroad in Europe and the United States, which I commend, which is good; but then many of them do not go back to Bangladesh to take back their education, their experience and their great strength. We must encourage them to do so. I will end as I began, by saying that Bangladesh is a country with a future. Just as the last part of the twentieth century belonged to the countries of south-east Asia, the Tiger economies, I believe that the first part of this century can belong to the countries of south Asia. With help from this Parliament, Bangladesh can share in that sense of belonging, in the wealth, the prosperity and ultimately the success that will bring. .  Mr President, can I just make a small point because one or two colleagues have raised a question, albeit at the very last moment, about some of the terminology. The phrase 'illegal trafficking' is used or added to ensure – or we hope to ensure – linguistic clarity and to avoid any ambiguity. Once parts of human organs, blood and tissue are included in the report, it is necessary to ensure that any legal trade that exists in, for example, blood, sperm or human tissue, is not criminalised or penalised. There is no suggestion whatsoever that there should be any legal trade or trafficking in human organs – quite the opposite. That is the purpose of the report, and I hope it is now clear. – I very much welcome the Commissioner's remarks and the fact that he says the Commission is doing everything possible to lessen the number of unsafe abortions taking place in the world, and indeed to reduce the need for abortions by giving and encouraging access to family planning and reproductive health matters. I agree with him that there are a large number of NGOs doing sterling work. Would he agree with me that women have a right to choose how they organise their lives? Abortion should of course be the last resort, but it is my belief that sometimes the teaching and doctrine of the Catholic church and its refusal to countenance family planning have done untold damage to the lives of millions of women in some of the poorest countries of the world. I hope that on this issue and related matters we can move forward as a result of the response by the Commission, and help reduce the number of abortions, by giving women access to the services they wish, should they wish them. – Mr President, I yield to no one in my desire for peace in Sir Lanka and in my condemnation of all violence. However, I say to Mrs Foster and Mr Heaton-Harris that they want to check their stories and sources because it needs both sides in a conflict to be committed if a lasting solution is to be achieved. I know Sri Lanka, I have been there. I can give you examples of what I have seen. I have seen Tamil men being harassed on the streets by government troops. I know that Tamil people need 11 pages of documents just to travel from Batticaloa in the east to the capital, Colombo. And like everyone here in this Parliament, and all European journalists, I have been unable to go to Jaffna recently, nor have I seen any television coverage of the battle at Elephant Pass. I have seen the fighting in Sierra Leone, Chechnya, Kosovo but nothing from Sri Lanka because the Sri Lankan Government does not allow press coverage. That goes back longer than last May. This is a government whose defence budget has risen by 11% in a year and which, one day, will have to answer allegations of involvement in the assassination of leading Tamil figures and other human rights abuses. Let us have a peace for all Sri Lankans, based on citizens’ rights, humanity and in which government resources are directed at building communities, not helping to destroy them. – Mr President, this report covers a very important issue and one that has been prominent in my post bag for nearly six years. If we are serious about the European ideal, we have to be able to ensure that it is easily sold to those who are convinced about the concept and those who are not. I was a teacher for 16 years and now, as an MEP, I have spent a lot of time in schools, colleges, and at conferences arguing for just this sort of action. It links in with many positive initiatives over the last few years with which we are all familiar – Socrates, Youth for Europe, Leonardo and so on. Young people in general are very positive about the European Union. They do not have the problems often associated with other age groups. They are used to multicultural and diverse communities. But confronted, as they so often are, by factors that work against the European ideal, they rely on their own experiences. We have to ensure that the experiences of young people – students and others in the educational world – are positive. Nothing will be more damaging to their developing views, than if a report such as this fails to make progress or if it fails to deliver greater mobility or if it fails to at least start to demolish the barriers that confront educational mobility today. Back to the beginning. When it first presented its report, the Commission accepted that its recommendation was less than satisfactory. I understand that it even considered withdrawing it. Since then, a great deal of work by my own staff, by Parliament's staff and indeed by the Commission's own staff, to all of whom I pay warm tribute, has presented us with what I thought, until today, was perhaps a worthy if not perfect report, certainly one that was satisfactory and would go some way to achieving my aims. Today, and at the eleventh hour, the Commission have advised me, albeit indirectly, of its difficulties. Firstly, I understand that the Commission now believes that all references to researchers to be outside the legal base as provided for under Articles 149 and 150. I ask the question: why is this information only available on the 4 October? Why has someone waited until now to come up with this? Was this legal advice not known when on numerous occasions I discussed its inclusion with members of the Commission staff? Indeed, when Mr Mantovani and I and the whole Social Affairs Committee were encouraged to progress the case, why was I told that the researchers would be the subject of a later Commission recommendation if there is no legal base for it? And why in 1996 did the Commission publish a Green Paper – Education, Training and Research – if there was no legal base for it? Was that, I ask, not a waste of Commission and Parliament time and indeed money, then and now. No-one has more respect than I for Mrs Reding and her Commission staff so I am sure that tonight in her response she will be able to address the particular points that I raise and that she will not present a prepared statement. I will now turn to some of the particulars which I addressed in the report – details which were defined and honed in response to discussions with a huge number of parties, from students to ministers, teaching unions to government, representatives from several, if not all, the countries. The report seeks to remove legal and administrative, and indeed cultural, barriers to mobility. It promotes the wider use of a variety of financial means of assistance. It tries to promote an EU-wide area of qualifications and specifically to make the lot of third-country nationals easier regarding mobility. Specifically my report replaces the worthy international generalisations by, in effect, repatriating the decisions to the Member States. I tried to make sure that the report only covers areas over which Parliament and the Commission has jurisdiction. I have endeavoured to ensure the recommendations with any fiscal implication are limited to a bare minimum. As with any Parliament report, experience has shown that there is little chance of anything happening, or at best little possibility of uniformity across Europe, if there is no monitoring. For reasons which I understand, but which will have the effect of neutering the whole report, the Commission will, I am led to believe, be rejecting Amendments Nos 46 to 51. Indeed, they have already press-released it to the effect that they are going to do so. Commissioner, I say to you that without an action plan, without any indicators to see who is doing what, and how well they are doing, without assessment of progress, there will be so many discrepancies, so many complaints, so many letters in your post bag, so many students and teachers knocking at your door, and indeed so many MEPs lobbying you, that I suggest you will wish, even allowing for the constraints under which you work, that you had accepted the amendments I proposed and which I hope Parliament will accept. In conclusion, I was both pleased and flattered when this report was referred to by President Chirac in his speech to Parliament some weeks ago. If the French Presidency are now serious, then I suggest that Council will have to work very hard to salvage both their and the Commission's reputation as a matter of urgency for I suggest the failure to endorse this report in its entirety will send all the wrong, and very confusing, messages to important groups of our society. – Mr President, I want to congratulate my colleague Mr Ceyhun for approaching a very difficult and sensitive issue. Referring to what Mr Kirkhope said, this is an issue of great importance and I could not agree with him more. I am sure he would agree with me that it is very sad that on an issue like this, which covers the pages of many of our newspapers, there is – to the best of my knowledge – no press here to cover it. We have also to recognise that this report is just one piece of a jigsaw. It is a very difficult jigsaw that we are trying to put together. We need a proper system of immigration and asylum that will cater for the needs of Europe in the modern world. I say to Mrs Frahm and Mr Cappato that this is what we are aiming for, and I do not believe the rhetoric you used just now is helpful in such a very difficult situation. On specific points, Mr Kirkhope referred to his anxieties about paragraphs 11 and 12, and I know the points that he is making there. But the reference is to legally recognised organisations, NGOs, with which all of us are familiar. We have to ask ourselves is someone or an organisation that is helping people in desperate circumstances escape persecution a criminal? Are they the organisations that we ought to be legislating against? I would say not. We know, and others have said, that people escaping from these situations are desperate people escaping conflict, war and circumstances like that. That is why we need these measures. We must do more. We must do more to help those developing countries and help the countries that are war-torn and with regimes that we do not like. But we cannot do that overnight. I do not believe we are helping those people who are trying to get out by doing nothing and leaving the situation as it is, so they have to clamber into the back of lorries and suffocate and endure torture and misery. We have to make certain that we have a proper asylum system that is not skewed by the overemphasis on illegal immigration. Our job in the new few months, as a Parliament, will be to report on the Commission's opinions in a way that reminds all Member States that their national interest must not override our global and humanitarian obligations. – Mr President,  I share some, if not all, of Mrs McKenna's reservations on the Pirker report. However, I voted in favour of this report on a common immigration policy, but with an extremely heavy heart. I did so because although the report as amended is, as we would say in English, all over the place – some points do not correspond with others and there are contradictions left, right and centre – there are a few (and I am sure Mrs McKenna will look at them) but significant positive aspects to the report. For example, it recognises the right of third-country nationals legally resident in the European Union to free movement in Europe. Equally, it gives the right to vote in local elections. However, there are negative aspects. I doubt whether all the people who voted for paragraph 35 could have read it, because it restricts the right of residence, accommodation and education. That is inherently racist and we should oppose it. However, to have rejected the report would have placed in jeopardy the positive points; hence my support, although with the reservations I have expressed clearly here. . – Mr President, I wish to begin by apologising to Parliament, on behalf of Mr Ceyhun, who has been stranded in Germany and is unable to be here. So I have the pleasure of presenting his report on his behalf. Can I say through you, Mr President, to Mr Ceyhun that, as a non-German speaker, I am extremely grateful for the briefing notes that he has sent me in German, from which I will make my contribution this evening. I welcome this report, which is both ambitious and particularly welcome: a report that Parliament has wanted for some time. I also welcome Commissioner Vitorino, because this report clearly shows the very high principles and commitment that he gives to this issue. We in Parliament – certainly on my committee -are very grateful to him for the amount of work that he does. It is also a very topical and timely report. We have seen right-wing extremism and populism on the rise. We saw a very high vote for Mr Le Pen in France and similar issues in other countries. Where right-wingers are, racism and xenophobia are not far behind and we have to be very wary of that. Colleagues will be aware that there is also a great deal of concern in Europe at the moment about asylum and immigration. There are lots of horror stories presented by the press to misinform people. This report attempts to clarify the definition of what is racism and what is xenophobia and to make the actions that should be punished much clearer. Our group and the committee welcomed the effort made by the Commission to try to harmonise this legislation. The rapporteur also recognises the importance of protecting the right to free speech and, equally, the need to protect minorities and other groups. We must ensure that any new legislation does not stand in the way of these important European fundamental rights. As regards the penalties for transgressing these laws, individual governments must consider the recommendations that are made, and these vary from six months for some offences to two years for others. We must regard them as minimum points – as lowest common denominators – and we should be pressing countries to do more. Mr Ceyhun also refers in his report to the growing use of the Internet, which is not just European but global and knows no boundaries. There is a considerable level of responsibility here that must fall on the Internet service providers. They must be responsible for their sites, users and contents. That does not mean that they will always be responsible for everything that goes through their sites but they must be responsible for presenting racist and xenophobic material. More complex is the question of whether a prosecution is possible – the Commissioner is a lawyer so he will know this – without the announcement of victims. Perhaps Member States should be responsible for this, since some of them are not happy about it. I now turn to the manufacture, distribution and the private possession of racist and xenophobic material. The rapporteur has looked very closely at the possibilities. We have to make absolutely clear that manufacture and production of such materials should be punishable. However, in many cases the private possession of such materials may not be punishable and it may not be desirable that it should be, because this would – if we took it to its logical consequence – prevent people from keeping, for example, old books, photos and other historical materials which would have to be destroyed . The rapporteur looks to Europol and Eurojust to enforce the existing structures across Europe, in cooperation with the judicial forces in each country. I am sure the exchange of data should help to improve the implementation of this framework decision. Finally, the rapporteur has asked for periodic reports on the progress by the Commission, how it is getting on, and this is customary practice. There is good support for this legislation across Europe, across parties in the committee and from a whole range of NGOs across Europe. It is very timely legislation. I welcome the amount of work the Commissioner has put into this, and I hope very much that Parliament will give it its full support tomorrow and that we can press forward and make real progress on combating racist and xenophobic materials. . – I speak on behalf of myself and my 28 colleagues from the British Labour Party. We have been pleased to vote and to support this report even though, for a variety of reasons, the United Kingdom Government has exercised its right to opt out of this initiative. As members will be aware, the UK Government was party to the conclusions of the Tampere European Council. There are, however, various practical points and issues regarding sovereignty which the UK takes very seriously and which means it is not appropriate or possible for the United Kingdom to be included at this time. However this does not lessen the commitment of our Government to the principles of the report and the underlying values inherent therein. Indeed it is the government's stated intention that the UK should not be seriously out of line with our European partners in this important area of immigration policy. Labour MEPs have therefore voted in favour of this report and remain supporters of the principles of family reunification. – Mr President, I should like to respond to a few of the points that have been raised in the debate this evening. The first point concerns Mr von Boetticher's contribution, the first of the right-wing Christian Democrat hit-and-run contributors. He hits out at the left in the Parliament, he hits out at the governments in the United Kingdom and Germany, and then he runs out of the Chamber so that he cannot hear the debate. He runs away from the debate and he runs away from the reality. The reality is that there are millions of people in the world who are seeking sanctuary in the European Union. It is a situation that needs a sympathetic response. It needs Member States to look at the situation and to try to address the position with compassionate moves. This is why my group on this side of the Chamber makes no apologies for supporting a common European asylum policy, believing that it is the only way forward for the European Union. I say to those Members opposite who say they are going to vote against these measures tomorrow and who, like Mr Coelho and Mrs Klamt, have said nice things about a common European asylum policy: you cannot say nice things about it on one occasion and then, every time there is a vote, vote it down. Mr Pirker has spelled out the objections but it is not being consistent when one Member of your group, Mr Helmer, is writing that they should end the automatic rights or end the Geneva Convention and end the automatic right of entry for those deemed to be suffering from persecution. We need to be absolutely clear where they are coming from. On this side we are quite clear in our approach. We will support this report. We very much believe that there need to be minimum standards. There need to be proper standards for asylum seekers, to recognise that they are invariably desperate people seeking desperate measures to escape from the appalling situations in their own countries. We should be compassionate in the role that we seek to play. We should be compassionate in our reports. That is why I am very happy to commend the rapporteur on this and to congratulate the Commissioner for bringing it forward. Mr President, I am sure that you and the whole House will join me in expressing our distress and condolences with regard to the 21 Albanians who lost their lives when their boat was shipwrecked recently near Vlora, off the Albanian coast. As we rightly strive to develop common European policies for asylum and, in parallel, common policies for Europe for legal immigration, this tragedy and other similar ones have drawn yet further attention to the need for the EU to be constantly aware of the less prosperous states around it and to do ever more to support those countries, of which Albania is just one example. – Mr President, I wish to thank Mr Turco and my colleague Mr Sousa Pinto for their important reports which show the essential work the agencies are doing through their investigations into how drugs actually function, their effect, the impact on society and which describe what help and improvements can be made. This is especially important and significant when we look at the whole question of enlargement. A previous speaker spoke very eloquently about the evil of drugs, and Mr Beysen referred to the tobacco vote a couple of days ago. There is an element of hypocrisy here, because half the House voted against having stronger measures on tobacco advertising and – I choose my words carefully – there are many Members in this House who are regular users, to different degrees, of alcohol, which is a very powerful drug. I am not teetotal, nor do I wish to be sanctimonious about this, but we have to be realistic about the situation that exists in Europe today. That must be our starting-point. We also have to be realistic about what we want from the Centre. I take issue with Mrs Boumediene-Thiery and Mr Cappato on some of their remarks about the Centre as it functions at the moment. For the work of the Monitoring Centre in Lisbon to be effective, Member States have to cooperate fully. As Mrs Banotti has just said, the agencies have to be involved. The Lisbon Centre has to have reliable, accurate information and be able to monitor and involve all the different agencies in as many countries as possible. Mr Blokland said that we should not include Turkey. If you look at the whole question of drugs and the issues of enlargement of the European Union, Turkey is an intrinsic part of the supply routes for drugs coming into Europe. I know the Turkish authorities are looking at ways of improving the situation and so are the applicant countries and those which would like to be applicant countries. They want to address this problem. In many cases they do not have the civic structures and other organisations in place to properly enforce some of the regulations we would like and some of the monitoring that would take place. So we cannot exclude one country because we do not like it very much: we have to open our doors to as many countries as we can and encourage the work that is being done. Of course, there is not enough being done. There needs to be more progress. But if we just sit back and say that everything is fine or just say "no" to drugs and that people should not use them, we are not accepting the situation as it is; we are not giving the tools to those people who want to improve the position. I look forward to another debate, as Mrs Banotti has said – perhaps in a year's time – when we can actually start to pinpoint some of the progress that is being made. I congratulate Mr Sousa Pinto and Mr Turco. – Mr President, may I thank Mr Watson on behalf of our committee for bringing this report to plenary. I listened carefully to what Mr Watson and Mr Schmitt just said. Mr Schmitt spoke a lot about unjustified applications and, of course, we need to look at all applications properly. Mr Schmitt said, and I wholeheartedly agree with him, that Member States have to do more to address the root causes that are forcing people to migrate across Europe and across the world, but it is not easy to address the root causes in the countries from where many asylum seekers come. The highest number of asylum seekers in Europe come from Afghanistan, Iran and Sri Lanka and at the moment, as we know only too well, it will not be easy to address quickly the situation in Afghanistan: we watch that situation with some terror. Nearer to home, we are affected, at the moment by the lack of a common working asylum system for Europe and the separate issue of a common immigration policy, which will come later. But we see on our television screens, certainly in Britain and France nightly, and colleagues in Spain have a similar problem, the way that the lack of a proper system manifests itself in tragedy. Asylum seekers are desperate people escaping in many cases war, violence and torture. Yes, Mr Schmitt, some of them are just escaping poverty, but we should not knock them for that. We need to give them respect and make certain that they are treated fairly. This report calls for high standards for reception of asylum seekers, to recognise that they are not criminals while their cases are being heard. People escaping from the worst situations do not need to be detained in prisons, detention centres and I agree with Mr Watson on this. Those escaping from war and torture do not need to be welcomed by barbed wire and armed guards. They need to have their cases heard properly, they need a fair system and they need a system that puts the individual at the heart of the process. This report goes some way towards that, but it is part of a much wider picture working towards a common European asylum system with a separate immigration system alongside it. I hope that we can get this through as amended and continue the vast amount of work still to be done in this area. – Mr President, I should first of all like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, who has put forward a very concise and well-presented report and one that we are happy to support. I would like to draw attention to one or two points from it. I hope that most Members in this House will agree with me that we should be moving towards a visa-free Europe, a Europe without barriers, at ease with itself and the rest of the world. I know we still have some stumbling blocks and Europe and the world are not quite ready for that at the moment. But the rapporteur has spoken about no exceptions and I am delighted to support him in that we have one single list. I also want to draw attention to a few amendments. Amendment No. 2 is important. It says it is essential that we have procedures that are as smooth and as simple as possible and do not cause unreasonable expenditure for the applicants. Many of us in this House know as well as anyone that getting a visa can be a time-consuming and expensive business. We want to make certain in Europe that is not the case working in the opposite direction. Similarly, Amendment No 6 speaks about young people and encouraging them to take part in youth programmes by not giving them the extra burden of visas. That is important because young people are enthusiastic about the European ideal and we do not want to put anything in their way that makes them think that Europe is not welcoming and not moving in the right direction. My last point concerns Romania and Bulgaria, particularly Romania, a country I know well. Every time I go there I have to go through the procedure of getting a visa and the Romanians say that as long as the European Union wants visas from them they will demand them from us. So we are taking a step in the right direction and I am happy to support the amendments and the report. – Mr President, Mr Gomes for the Council and Mr Liikanen for the Commission this morning have both made very clear statements. As a UK Member of this Parliament I understand other Members’ concerns. This morning, and in recent days in particular, we have read and heard a lot of allegations. Even today we have heard talk of James Bond, of American espionage and we have had the rantings of the madman to my left a few moments ago. But today, and in the Citizens’ Rights Committee, we have had few real facts because of the secrecy. That is, after all, the nature of intelligence and military information work. If it was not secret and we all knew about it, it would not serve the purpose for which it would be intended and necessary. Members will therefore understand that it is the practice in the United Kingdom Government, like, I imagine, most or all other governments, not to comment on alleged interception whether the allegations are based on trivia or something perhaps more substantial. As Mr Liikanen has said, everything done in the United Kingdom is in line with a proper legal framework. Everything is subject to close parliamentary scrutiny in the House of Commons. We have very tight controls, both independent controls and control that emanates from the Secretary of State with the full consent of the United Kingdom Government. Finally and importantly, I want to reiterate that everything that has been conducted, or will be conducted, is in complete conformity with United Kingdom law, with United States law and, most importantly, is done with complete respect for, and in complete conformity with, the European Convention on Human Rights. Mr President, I believe it is true to say that there is little that matters to citizens as much as feeling safe and secure in the country in which they live or reside. There is no point at all in us promoting the free movement of workers across the European Union if our citizens do not feel that they will be protected from crime in whatever state they may find themselves. If EU citizens are to believe in the European Union – and let us face it, some of them do not at the moment – it is essential that they are confident of receiving the same standard of protection from crime and the same treatment as victims of crime as they would expect if they were in their own country. As others have said, this legislation seeks not just to help anyone who might be unfortunate enough to be a victim of such a crime, but to try to ensure that there is consistency. To be a victim of a crime is bad enough, but the problems of personal and emotional torture will continue if they do not get fair and appropriate compensation. This is all the more important when we know that the legal systems vary from one country to another, and the ways and workings of the different police forces and the actions they take are not the same from one country to the next. I applaud this proposal. I believe it will provide a central body in citizens' own Member States, which would apply to the country where the crime occurred to get compensation on their behalf. We should not forget that violent crime can take place anywhere, in any country. It is right and proper that we do everything to level out the system to make certain it works in favour of the citizen and the victim of the crime. – Mr President, I am speaking in a debate on human rights – although you would have found that difficult to believe if you had been listening closely to the compassionate words of Mr Hannan. It is a human rights issue that we are discussing here. It is not an easy one and nobody should suggest it is. It has not just become urgent because of the economic effect on business or on the freight industry, for which I have great sympathy. It is a very serious and distressing situation which does nobody any great credit. It has concerned, as others have said, large numbers of people and governments – both in France, the UK and other countries – and local authorities. It is one that my committee in Parliament has also discussed on more than one occasion. People could go back and search for different reasons why there are numbers of people there. I reject the very simplistic and inhumane proposals from Mr Hannan. It is a situation that has worsened over recent years and the problem is much more extensive than he implied. But just as Parliament must protect business and the freight industry, so Europe – but not exclusively the United Kingdom or France – has a duty to care for and protect those seeking refuge. These are desperate people. Some have fled in fear of their lives, and we should be able to offer them sanctuary and give them every opportunity to put their claim for asylum. This is what the Dublin Convention, which we sought to review earlier this week in the Marinho report, is all about. We need a Dublin Convention that enables asylum-seekers to feel safe and secure, to put their claim for asylum in the first EU country which they reach. Earlier in the week the other side of the House tabled amendments suggesting that they should be informed of their rights in any language, not necessarily a language that they understand. That is not the way, and it explains why sometimes people move to another country. It is not a question of who supports which amendment and who does not. I personally have no problem with Amendment No 2, which I was questioned about earlier. We have to get the system working for the sake of all of the people who are moving around Europe. We have to make it safe and working for the industries. We need to work towards a common European asylum system. Without that, Europe will not function and we will be coming back to these issues over and over again. We need to have a common European asylum system throughout the Member States that is understood and that works. I and my colleagues on this side of House and some others will be working consistently for that in the months ahead. – Mr President, I wanted to speak before you took that vote to explain why I wanted Members to vote against the amendment. Yesterday the whole position changed with the position the Commission has taken on the legal base. But it is too late now because you have just taken the vote and Members voted in favour of it. We will just have to press on. – Mr President, if any good came out of the events of 11 September – and it would be a brave person who said it did – I would single out two things. Firstly, it caused the world to look, for the first time perhaps, at the whole question of Islam as a religion – but I will leave that for the moment. Secondly, it caused Europe, the USA and the West to look again at the whole question of international relations. We cannot close our eyes and minds to the problems of small countries thousands of kilometres away or impoverished and troubled regions – whether or not we agree with the regimes there – and just think that they do not matter. If we do, we run the risk that the problems will manifest themselves on our doorsteps. One way that happens is through terrorism, which obviously we cannot ignore. We counter it by international cooperation. Mr Blokland said earlier that we need to be harder and firmer. In addition to repressive measures, it is fundamental that we look at and try to address the root causes – poverty, war, oppression and a whole range of issues – that lead to terrorism. We all abhor and condemn terrorism. These two reports are a first step towards greater international cooperation in addressing terrorism and increasing international police cooperation. We, as politicians, are elected to monitor at a European level what happens. We must press for the highest possible standards, for maximum cooperation, and constantly keep the situation under review and monitor progress. – Madam President, I would like to thank the Commissioner and the rapporteur for her report. I very much applaud the principle of having brought this up for debate. It is a major step towards a common European immigration policy. Without legal means, many people resort to dangerous and illegal ways of circumventing frontiers. Without legal migration, we will struggle to meet our target of making Europe the most competitive economy in the world by 2010. I was saddened by what Mr Nassauer has said. We have to move the debate forward. There are 350 million people in the European Union at the moment and there will soon be 500 million. He has highlighted that 50 million of those may be unemployed, 5 million of them in Germany. However, as Mr Nassauer will know, and as we have heard in the previous debate, it is not as easy as we would like for someone to move from one EU country to another to work. We must do more to facilitate that, certainly, but in the meantime we must also do more to have legal migration, so as to ensure that the vacant positions we have are filled. We have also got to make sure there are safeguards, because in encouraging third country nationals into the EU we must also make certain that we are not depriving those countries of the very important key workers that they need to help them develop. We do not want to take all the doctors and nurses and teachers from developing countries simply because we need them. But then neither, on the other hand, do we want to say to third country nationals: ‘you can come to the EU but the only jobs you can do are the low-level, manual, nasty jobs that we don't want to do’. So we have got to have a properly balanced scheme, with legal migration that respects individuals and respects their position, supporting both third countries and the EU. The UK may not have chosen to opt into this measure at the moment, but I am contributing to this debate and participating in it as other British Members are because we want to make certain that we have sound legislation laying down sensible provisions, so that the UK will be able to opt into it in the future. Mr President, I shall restrict my remarks to the area of legal migration, a subject touched on by both Mr McDowell and Commissioner Vitorino and picked up by several colleagues here. I agree with much of what Mrs Kaufmann said earlier in her reference to Kofi Annan's speech to the European Parliament a few days ago. Mr McDowell spoke earlier on about family reunification and allowing in migrants for purposes of study and training. But that is only part of the issue concerning legal migration. Commissioner Vitorino on the other hand has tried over the last few years to push forward a more imaginative agenda with a wider framework. I believe very strongly that without a system of legal migration into the European Union – something like the green card system that the United States has in place – we will continue to face the challenge of illegal immigration with all its problems. We will continue to face the difficult problems of trafficking gangs and all the crime associated with that, to say nothing of the continuing shortage of labour in key industries, both skilled and unskilled. Unless I have missed a key point, I do not believe there is an alternative to planned legal migration. But I am also absolutely convinced that this must be done in a manner that is positive both for EU countries and for the countries of origin. It is not acceptable just to take skilled workers from less-developed countries, nor is it acceptable for rich EU countries to say they will take migrants to do those unpleasant, dirty jobs that they do not want to do. This is why I urge the Commissioner and the Council to press on with this very difficult work in an important area – a structured programme for planned migration for a European Union of 25 countries and more. Mr President, I am sure that a number of Members like me will be alarmed at suggestions that France is considering a ban on Muslim girls wearing headscarves in its state schools. Indeed, a study in France has now suggested that these scarves, Jewish boys' skull caps and other religious symbols are ostentatious and provocative. President Chirac has been quoted as saying that for Muslim girls to wear headscarves is a sort of aggression. Far be it from me to interfere in French internal politics - I am not a Muslim, indeed I am not a follower of any religion - but my belief is that this would not address the challenge that France faces in integrating Muslims and other minorities into its society. In my part of London - Brent, Harrow, Hounslow, Ealing, I could go on - we found that the opposite policy of respect for peoples' differences, respect for their different religions, respect for different practices and heritage, is a much better way of incorporating minorities into societies. I hope through you, Mr President, and through our French colleagues here, we can send this message back to President Chirac and the French authorities. – Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report. Firstly, from a procedural point of view, while I realise it is due to unavoidable delays on the part of this Parliament, it is unacceptable that, as Mr Sørensen said, the Council has already reached its general agreement on this without waiting for Parliament's opinion. Secondly, colleagues will be aware that the UK has chosen at this stage, for well-documented reasons by way of a protocol, not to opt into this directive, but I sincerely hope that in the future it will be able to opt in. I therefore welcome the course that the rapporteur has taken with regard to subsidiary protection. As others have said, we should recognise the importance of this agreement because it is the first legislative instrument to be passed at European level on legal immigration. If we are aware of the difficulties the Commissioner faced in making any progress on this issue, then we should recognise the very great challenges that lie ahead. Mrs Klamt's remarks and her interpretation saddened me. On family unification, I would say to Mr Gollnisch that I can well understand, if there were members of his family who were separated from him by thousands of kilometres, that they would not want family reunification – they would be grateful to be parted from him. But if it were members of my family who were separated and somewhere else in the world – whatever the relationship or their situation – I would welcome this and would hope that we could have family reunification that would draw us together. As Mrs Terrón i Cusí said, we have to be realistic in our approach to, and modern in our interpretation of, relationships and to show understanding for the circumstances that people find themselves in nowadays. This Parliament has to be realistic, rational and forward-looking. I look forward to supporting this report. – My British Labour colleagues and I have voted in favour of the Terrón i Cusí report, as we support the aim of providing legal channels of entry for those seeking work in the European Union. The UK, however, has chosen not to opt into this report, in line with its position on maintaining control over admissions. Nevertheless, Labour Members have actively participated in deliberations on the report, both with a view to establishing a fair set of rights and obligations for third country nationals across the EU, and also with a view to a possible UK opt-in in the future. For this reason, we have opposed certain provisions that will cause specific problems in the UK. In particular, I refer to Amendments Nos 2, 55, 27 and 17, which we voted against. We are mindful that this report comes under the consultation procedure and, although Parliament's opinion is an essential part of the legislative process, these are issues that will ultimately be decided by the Council. . – Mr President, as we all know, the last few weeks have been very difficult and we will continue to live in challenging times for many months and years ahead. Therefore, this is a very important debate, and I am delighted that not just the Commissioner but the President-in-Office, Mr Duquesne, are here in person, recognising the importance of this issue. As Mr Duquesne implied in his contribution, if the recent happenings have shown us anything, it is that we cannot turn a blind eye to events around the world and hope that they will go away. The problems of people wanting asylum, the situation and the plight of the people of poor and troubled countries all over the world are our concerns and they manifest themselves on our doorsteps, on our shores and in our parliaments if we do not address them. At one level these problems manifest themselves as debates in this and other parliamentary assemblies. At the worst level we find bodies in lorries at Dover, on the beaches of Spain and other countries. This is the plight of desperate people seeking desperate measures to start a new life. But these people are not resorting to this sort of action lightly; they are escaping from terror, war, torture, rape, vile regimes posing as governments and, of course, in some cases, poverty. So there can be no more appropriate time for countries to be working together to confront these humanitarian challenges. I congratulate the EU Heads of Government for having brought asylum into the Community competence and setting a progressive agenda at Tampere. I congratulate the Commission on these proposals, which have started the debate on how a common asylum policy should be shaped. In my report before Parliament today I am asking for a common and wider interpretation of the Geneva Convention of 1951, a clearer definition of who should be recognised as a refugee and one that is consistent across all 15 countries. Let us also harmonise the treatment asylum seekers receive; let us establish Europe-wide common standards and then make sure that we enforce them. If we adopt this report we can start to establish minimum basic rights, as the Minister and the Commissioner have said, for refugees, for access to welfare, housing, education, health care – things that we in the privileged world take for granted. In recent years it sometimes seemed that EU countries were competing to become the least attractive to potential asylum seekers. Common, Europe-wide standards will inevitably create a more balanced distribution of asylum claims throughout the EU. That must help my city, London, and all the major cities of Europe. It must also stop countries being able to lower their standards, which will be good for asylum seekers, who can be more confident of a fair hearing. That is something of which we should be proud and not ashamed. In addition and crucially, Europe must collectively do far more to address the root causes that lead to people seeking asylum and becoming refugees. Governments must make concerted efforts to help create peace in the troubled parts of the world, however difficult, and to increase aid to developing countries – strong measures that in time will work towards countering the pressures that force people to migrate. It is for the same reasons that we must press ahead with the enlargement of the European Union. As Commissioner Verheugen said recently, we cannot ask ourselves the question: can we afford enlargement of the European Union? Instead we should put the question: can we afford not to enlarge the European Union? In committee, many centre-right and right-wing Members voted against my report in whole or in part. I challenge those Members who are sitting opposite today, not to just give a prepared speech or ignore what I am saying now but to tell us why they are opposing certain parts of it and why they want to diminish the rights of a fair appeal, which is Amendments Nos 6 and 8 by Mr Schmitt. How will this make the system better? To those – perhaps the British Conservatives – who will vote against this report in its entirety, if they were here I would ask them to explain to Parliament how we can address the current asylum situation in Europe without Europe-wide policies. They must recognise that this is a global issue and one that cannot be dealt with on an individual basis in each country. I sympathise with Amendments Nos 11 and 12 by the Green Group, but I cannot support them. We could support them in another report dealing with those escaping from hunger or environmental disasters. However, this is a compassionate report, one with which we can be satisfied but not complacent. In conclusion, I should like to thank my colleagues from my own and other groups for their help and support for this report and for their cooperation. I thank my own group staff for their hard work and I pay tribute to the NGOs that have contributed valuable ideas. I commend the report to Parliament. Madam President, as the rapporteur alluded, this report has had something of a troubled life: it has been rather problematic and been back and forth to the Council. It is very important. Everyone recognises the significance of the EU Member States working together to combat the trade in drugs and to counter the damage done to lives, people and whole communities by the work and the trade of the traffickers. However, it is a very complex area. It is very important that we recognise regional differences. What works in one country in the EU may not work in another. What is appropriate in one European city may be totally inappropriate for another city in another country, because there are so many different attitudes, reactions and ways of life. As the rapporteur said, the Member States will not be obliged to change their internal laws. We are looking at the harmonisation of criminal provisions. The definitions of what amounts are involved and how serious these issues are will be very difficult and will doubtless be debated in the future. However, tonight we should recognise that this report – however difficult it has been – is just one piece in a very complex jigsaw in terms of countering drug trafficking and how we deal with those responsible in the future. I welcome this report and hope that it is used to move forward. However flawed it may be, we should welcome the progress we are making and continue the work in this area. Mr President, like others I welcome these reports on combating ship-source pollution. The UK, as an island, is especially vulnerable, and the history of our coastline is littered with horrific accidents and disasters not dissimilar to the . I am sure there is merit in the idea of harmonising sanctions, but these need to be very powerful measures and certainly must not weaken Member States' existing legislation. Harmonising up, yes, but levelling down, no. Then we need to ask who we are really trying to make responsible. Mr Andrews referred earlier on to 'rust buckets': the elderly ships on our seas that are a threat to coastlines, to maritime safety and to marine life. In the event of an accident, it is not the captains of these ships who need a custodial or prison sentence; it is the owners, those who are really responsible. All too often, it seems, it is those at the top, those with ultimate responsibility, who escape justice. Mr Ortuondo Larrea and others referred to flags. This is something of a distraction. The real issue here is the farce whereby ships are allowed to sail under flags of a country with which they have no connection at all. Finally, we also need to ensure that the rights of people living near areas vulnerable to disasters are protected. We have to consider the consequences for citizens who live close to pollution disaster areas. All these aspects vary from one country to another and, listening to this debate, I remain to be convinced as to how these harmonising instruments will actually crack down on those who are really responsible and bring them to justice. – Mr President, I echo the thanks of others to the rapporteur, the Commission and the Council for bringing this forward and recognising the need for further cooperation in this field, a very difficult area. I disagree, to an extent, with Mr Krarup, in that this is an issue that no one country can address on its own. It is vital that there are common policies, agreements and understandings between the 15 Member States. Having said that, we recognise the different situations in each Member State. Mrs Terrón i Cusí spoke earlier about the situation on the southern border of Spain. My own country, the United Kingdom, consists of one large island plus the north of Ireland. Other countries each have their own circumstances that need to be addressed: Greece, for example, has some 400 islands, and Luxembourg is land-locked. We all have very different situations and, in their own ways, these are very difficult to monitor and manage. But we do not manage very well with 15 countries at the moment. Mr Coelho quite rightly drew attention to the fact that when we are 25 countries in the EU – and later on 27 or 28 – it will be even more challenging. It is very important that we at least make the effort to get into position now something that is trying to address the issue, trying to face up to the challenge. We must make certain that we respect the rights of the individual. I agree with Mr Krarup on that. We can only do this if Member States work together, if we copy good practice from one country to another, if we do not repeat the mistakes that have been made in the past. Effectively, this means border management, hand-in-hand with common policies on asylum and immigration. It means being prepared to constantly update and upgrade, and it means border management which takes account of citizens' rights of movement. If we put those together we will address the issues for the years ahead in an enlarged European Union. – Mr President, I would like to refer to Mrs Angelilli's remarks at the beginning of the debate, when she spoke of this issue as being very complicated from a legal point of view. I have no legal training whatsoever but I have no doubt, as the Commissioner mentioned in his comments on forging together the chemistry of 15 countries, that mutual cooperation across the legal systems and judicial processes of 15 countries is very difficult to achieve. From the point of view of the ordinary citizens of Europe, however, I would suggest that the notion of the victim of a crime is a very simple one. Whether while abroad on holiday, for business purposes or perhaps as a student, the victim of a burglary, a violent personal crime, or a terrorist attack takes that crime very personally and expects something to be done about it. We all suffer, indeed the whole idea of Europe suffers, if nothing is done. Victims become disenchanted and frustrated, and to them the whole idea of Europe seems to have failed. We are, then, absolutely right to do all we can to press forward in the ways outlined in these two reports. We need to look for common rules and common understandings and agreements on legal aid so that, as far as possible, people can receive the sort of support that they would expect in their own country. The Commissioner spoke about the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. This is a step forward, but people expect, since this Charter exists, that they are entitled to rights in other countries. We have established a common market for goods and capital and made it work as a kind of rich playground. So, just as the previous report called for common European standards on asylum, we are absolutely right to be calling for common European standards for the victims of crime and access to legal aid. Mr President, a few days ago, 19 Chinese people lost their lives in Morecambe Bay in the north-west of England. They were cockle picking on the sands, the tide came in and they were all drowned. Would you agree with me that this tragedy, whilst clearly on British soil – or in British waters – is equally a European or international issue, and that we must work together to counter the international people-smuggling gangs that were exploiting these poor people who were being paid as little as one pound per day for their work? Furthermore, this case once again highlights the clear need to establish an effective and efficient common European system for asylum and the same for immigration, including legal migration, as a matter of urgency. It is clear that what is a United Kingdom tragedy one day could easily occur in another country's territory on another day. – Mr President, others have spoken about rich and poor countries, about the prosperity we have in Europe and the quite contrasting conditions in lesser-developed countries. Mr Bautista Ojeda was speaking about that just a moment ago. As Europe today revels in its economic success and prosperity, we need to consider at what expense it has been to other parts of the world, and the consequences for these counties. Part of our success and prosperity today is the result of our policies of the last and the nineteenth century when imperialism went to other countries around the world, and we are now reaping the consequences. We can do far more about this than we are actually doing at the moment. The difficulties manifest themselves today in Europe in the pressure for people from less developed countries wanting to migrate to Europe, and in people fleeing from some of the countries that are so desperate not just because of their economic situation, but also their lack of democracy and violence, and seeking asylum in the west. We can do more by helping those countries. It is not just about huge amounts of development money; the aid needs to be sustainable. One thing that we can do to help those countries would be to look again at our common agricultural policy – looking to reform that. At the moment, we are dumping subsidised goods on lesser-developed countries, which does not help their community, economy or farmers at all. We protect our own agricultural community in Europe at the cost of other countries. Whilst we are subsidising our agriculture, farmers and poorer people in countries all around the world are going under because they are unable to compete. So we must look at the common agricultural policy. We must work with the WTO to make sure that the standards and the conditions that they set do not contribute to poverty. We can do more then we are doing at the moment. .–My Labour colleagues and I have voted for Amendments Nos 13 and 24 to Article 20 and Amendment No 15 to Article 21 of the Marinho report. These amendments ensure that decisions on transfers of asylum seekers will have suspensive effect. Without this right, asylum seekers could be shuffled between Member States whilst the outcome of their appeal is pending. – I am slightly disappointed with the response from the Commissioner. While I am fully in support of strong, effective and costed legislation to force improvements in environmental standards governing water quality and other matters, and of the proper policing of such legislation, I would also like to see this stick approach complemented by, as it were, a degree of carrot. In my own region – and particularly in Cornwall, which is an Objective 1 area – we have very many small and medium enterprises that will find it most difficult to comply with this legislation. I would like to see some financial incentives or rewards introduced to enable them to stop polluting water. If we merely have, if you like, the stick approach and no carrots, then I am afraid we are going to find it more difficult to reach these standards and, at the same time, increase suffering in some of the very small enterprises in the UK county hardest hit by job losses, when we are actually spending considerable sums of money trying to create jobs there. – Madam President, I am delighted and proud that this Parliament has, by an enormous majority, condemned the formation of the coalition in Austria incorporating Mr Haider’s Freedom Party. Mr Haider has demonstrated, over the past years by both words and deeds, that he deserves to be excluded from normal democratic discourse. Not only has he admired Adolf Hitler, praised the Waffen SS, and refused to condemn a terrorist bombing that killed four Roma, but also in Carinthia has been a member of the regional government. He has led efforts to end provision for Austria’s Slovene-speaking minority and assistance to immigrants. Some have said it is not right for us to interfere in Austrian politics. They are wrong. European Union Treaties make it incumbent on us to protect fundamental rights. Some have said we have to accept the results of democratic elections. However, democratic elections do not make democrats of those who have threatened democracy. There is the tragic monument of the Holocaust, the death of 6 million Jews, to those who argued the same case with respect to Germany in the 1930s. However, we should not condemn Mr Haider for ambition. Leopards do not change their spots. The real culprits are Austria’s Christian Democrat acting as Judas goats to resurrect a threat to Europe that we thought had died Berlin in 1945. – According to my calculation, unless there are new members of the Conservative Party, the proportion of Members from our side and their side are almost the same. – Firstly, I offer my congratulations to the rapporteur Michael Cashman, his co-rapporteurs, the whole of the Civil Liberties Committee and the Swedish Presidency, who have been so vital in getting us to where we are today. Let me be clear. This report does not go as far as I would like. For that matter, it does not go as far as some of the pioneers in this area, in some of the NGOs, would like, like Tony Bunyan of Statewatch. It does not go as far as I hoped, but it does go further than I expected, as Parliament and the Swedish Presidency dragged the Commission and Council far closer to our position than they ever expected to be. To accept what is offered here is to take a window of opportunity that is not guaranteed to remain open indefinitely. We recognise that some documents should and must remain confidential and classified, but what must not happen is that legitimate reasons of security, public safety and public protection are used to hide the merely embarrassing and misjudged. We welcome in particular the annual report that will detail the number of documents not listed from each institution, which will hopefully stop institutional creep from taking place, as year after year they add further and further categories of documents that will remain secret. We welcome the assumption of access and hope it proves just that. These processes will increase transparency, improve accountability and give citizens rights to access documents. It does not give us freedom of information, but merely freer information. The latter, however, is a goal well worth achieving. The annual reports and the promised follow-up report in January 2004 may well prove that this report, this agreement, is not the beginning of the end but the end of the beginning. As my friend Hans-Peter Martin said, it took decades for the Freedom of Information Act to become law. Nevertheless, it is a political pleasure to be here. Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mrs Carlotti on her speech. I am surprised that no-one from the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reform Party, that tabled three amendments to this report, has spoken in this debate. – Mr President, as you may recall, last month I raised the issue of the extreme right-wing British National Party claiming that sympathetic serving police officers in Oldham have provided confidential police videos of the riots in that town, obviously calling into question evidence given by such biased officers in the ongoing trials. It turns out that, instead of investigating the claims that the BNP had received such material, the police have obtained an injunction imposing a ban on the showing of the videos, which I understand, but also on the reporting of the fact that BNP is making such claims and even on the fact that an injunction has been obtained. Will you write to the appropriate authorities expressing Parliament's concern that this attempt to bury a problem, rather than to investigate it, is not the way to deal with these issues? Mr President, I have had two opportunities to visit Burma since I became a Member of this House. On the first occasion I carried a letter from President Klaus Hänsch informing Aung San Suu Kyi of the award of the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought to her. Khin Nyunt, the current Prime Minister, played a central role in ensuring I did not have the opportunity to deliver that letter in person. On the second occasion I was able to meet with Aung San Suu Kyi clandestinely. On that occasion my colleagues and I were able to obtain her clear support for sanctions against the military regime in Burma. I hope the Council and the Commission recognise that is the view of the National League for Democracy. 30 August marked three months of detention at the end of 13 years of open prison for Aung San Suu Kyi and other members of the National League for Democracy. The State Peace and Development Council – the former SLORC – has harassed the people of Burma, the National League for Democracy and Aung San Suu Kyi. The last time she was visited was in July. On 31 August the United States reported she was on hunger strike. The regime denies that. If that is the case, the absolute minimum the authorities can do is to enable the international community to reassure itself of her wellbeing. As for free and fair elections, the problem in Burma is not free and fair elections – those took place 13 years ago – but that the military regime is not prepared to accept the will of the Burmese people. We welcome the fact that ASEAN started to get involved in this process at its ministerial meeting in June. We welcome the pressure they put on Burma and note that the current military regime has refused to allow them to meet with Aung San Suu Kyi. We demand her immediate release and that of all political prisoners, which would be a major step towards the restoration of democracy. We call on the Council and the Commission to show their readiness, in collaboration with the United States, to help facilitate the national reconciliation process in Burma. In the meantime, we ask the Council to introduce tough further measures targeted against the regime, its members and their interests. They should be imposing smart sanctions that hurt those people in power. We call on the Council and Member States to ask the United Nations Security Council to urgently address the situation in Burma. – Mr President, I generally welcome the comments both of the previous speaker and Commissioner Nielson who made a statement on behalf of the Commission. I am not as convinced as he is that the violence is actually over in Fiji. I had the opportunity last week, along with a number of colleagues from various parties and groups here, to meet with Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry who reported to us that violence against the Indo-Fijians is still continuing in Fiji. Secondly, I disagree that there is a fundamental ethnic antagonism in Fiji. It seems to me, if one looks at the origin of the coup d'état, that one should follow the money rather than the ethnic relations. I welcome the fact that Article 366 of the Lomé Convention has been invoked. If we look back at the history of what has happened in Fiji, we see a sweeping electoral victory by the Fijian Labour Party in the May 1999 General Election when they won, with their supporting parties, 58 out of the 71 seats, ousting the incumbent right-wing government. Following that, there has been a systematic attempt to destabilise the new government led by elements of the former governing party and extreme nationalist gangs under the flimsy pretext of protecting indigenous interests. It is interesting that, although Mahendra Chaudhry is an Indo-Fijian, twelve out of the 18 members of his cabinet are, as it were, indigenous Fijians and a majority of indigenous Fijian MPs actually supported the Government. The destabilisation operation was financed by sections of private enterprise, frightened by the government's radical programme of social reform and poverty alleviation and by its close association with the trade union movement. This financing was led by corporate groups bidding for the right to exploit mahogany and native hardwood forestry. The police and the military singularly failed to protect and defend the government. Alongside George Speight and his gang, when the people's coalition government were taken hostage on 19 May, were members of the armed forces' counter-revolutionary warfare unit. What has happened in Fiji is nothing less than a coup d'état by the military industrial complex. In fact, it is another Chile written small. As a result, the 1997 Constitution has been ripped up. A government has been imposed in power by the military that it is effectively controlled by those supporting the coup and the military is trying to offload the blame by prosecuting one small section of those involved, namely the gang around George Speight I believe Parliament, the Commission and the Council of Ministers must back the proposals by the Labour led people's coalition for reinstatement of the 1997 Constitution and, in the spirit of national conciliation, for the formation of a grand coalition for the government in Fiji. Unless this is achieved, unless the slide towards a form of apartheid in Fiji, where Indo-Fijians who comprise nearly half the population are rapidly becoming second-class citizens, driven from their homes and jobs, is stopped, then we should demand support for sanctions against the current government. We should support the moves by Premier Helen Clark from New Zealand for a concerted action at bilateral, regional and global levels, which should include, as Mr Van Hecke said, ‘smart’ sanctions targeted at those involved in the coups, denying them the freedom to travel, freezing foreign assets and threatening them when they are apprehended with the consequences of the UN Hostage Convention. Second, Fiji should be banned from all international sporting and cultural events. Third, there should be a denial of all economic and military assistance to and through the present government. The issue of Fiji is important, not only in its own right, but because it will set a precedent as to whether semi-clandestine coups-in-waiting along similar lines will see the light of day and whether Europe and the rest of the developed world is prepared to tackle the issue of indigenous rights – the Third World's variant of the racism that is threatening us all. – Madam President, I have a point of order concerning the death penalty in the United States. I should like to ask you, if you have not already done so, to write to the President of the United States, Mr Bush, to ask that the death sentence against Tim McVeigh, the extreme right-wing terrorist bomber in Oklahoma, be commuted to life imprisonment. This is on the basis of our longstanding opposition to the death penalty in the United States but in this particular case it is reinforced by the increasing evidence that the bombing was not carried out by a crazed lone bomber but as part of a conspiracy by the extreme right-wing Aryan Republic Army. To execute him at this stage would be to frustrate the search for truth and justice and serve the interests and ideology of the very people implicated in the crime. . – I was not in favour of the two recent ballots on the calendar of sessions 2003. I voted in favour of both amendments 1 and 3 for the self-evident reasons that Brussels is a far better place to conduct our business economically and efficiently than Strasbourg. I will always vote to reflect that view and try to end the mindless and expensive perigrinations around Europe that John Major's government imposed on the Parliament at the Edinburgh Summit in 1992. – Mr President, there has been a little confusion. Mr Sylla was not one of the authors of the resolution. He is opposing the resolution. I do not know how that mistake was made. We in the PSE Group are supporting the resolution and will be opposing the amendment from Mr Posselt, because it waters down the criticism of Mr Mugabe. Zimbabwe is no longer a democratic country. Parliamentary, presidential and all local elections recently have been characterised by intimidation, repression, voting fraud and state-sponsored political violence. We have a situation where over 7 million Zimbabweans – over half the population – are on the brink of starvation. If you want government-controlled food, you are required to have a ZANU-PF membership card. Unemployment is running at 70%, inflation is at over 100% and 50% of the land is no longer being farmed. We also have the usual African problem of AIDS. Parliament has consistently called for a widening and rigorous enforcement of sanctions, as well as other measures, to make international action against the Mugabe regime more effective. This resolution condemns the lack of coherence in EU policy and calls on the Council and governments of the Member States not to seek exemptions from the EU's own sanction regime, which can be misread. Sanctions against the Mugabe regime should continue without interruption and without exemption. The charges against the opposition, against Morgan Tsvangirai, are spurious and unsubstantiated. We want to extend the existing sanctions to make them stronger and more effective. We want the Council and Commission to provide more information on the freezing of the bank accounts of those subject to sanctions. We want wider sanctions against the Zimbabwean regime, including an international sports and culture boycott. That would not increase the suffering of the population of Zimbabwe. We praise the courage of the Zimbabwean cricketers – Andy Flower and Henry Olonga – for wearing those black armbands to symbolise the lack of democracy and human rights in Zimbabwe. We support the belated stance of the England cricket team which has now refused to play in Zimbabwe. It is time for further action to be taken and for the sanctions to be strengthened and reinforced. Mr President, on a point of order under Rule 9a and Annex XI of the Rules of Procedure, I should like to ask the President if he would refer the events of this morning's STOA management committee to the Anti-Fraud Office for investigation. The committee voted by 11 votes to 8 to suppress a scientific report on inedibles, in respect of which the European Academy of Sciences' advisory committee stated: 'This report is, overall, a reasonable, impartial and balanced piece of work on a very difficult topic.' The peer review would lead me to conclude that it should definitely be published. It is important that the general public realise that this decision was made on the basis of grave political errors, rather than believing that the committee has become a majority-owned property of European chocolate manufacturers. – Mr President, I asked the President-in-Office to answer my question whether Article 7 of the Treaties actually asks the Fourteen to take action in respect of a country whose human rights record is called into question. He seems to imply that this is a matter for the Presidency-in-Office and not for fourteen sets of bilateral relations. – Mr President, I disagree with Mr Markov. Iran is a complex society. There is evidence of some progress towards an Islamic society that is in tune with the modern world. President Khatami and his reformist allies are a symbol of that modernisation. However, President Khatami is being constantly frustrated by the more fundamentalist elements of Iranian society. That is why the EU is currently engaged in negotiating a trade and cooperation agreement with Iran. This is not currently in doubt, though it must be clear to the Iranian authorities that at the same time we will expect and require an agreement on human rights. The death sentence on Dr Hashem Aghajari for apostasy on the basis of some obscure theological dispute is incomprehensible to the West. We welcome President Khatami's intervention, the action of lecturers and students in protesting and Dr Aghajari's own appeal for calm. We welcome the threat of resignation by President Khatami, the cabinet and dozens of MPs, should the Council of Guardians veto legislation that is being proposed to limit its current absolute power. However, we have to make it clear to the government of Iran that we will be watching the outcome of this and similar cases with close interest, in terms of our future relations with that country. – Madame President, can I congratulate the two rapporteurs, Mr Gallagher on the protection of juveniles of marine organisms, and Mrs Fraga on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and acquacultural products. Both reports are generally worthy of support, and with Mr Gallagher’s report I have no fundamental problems. On Mrs Fraga’s report, although I welcome the general thrust of the report, there are a couple of problems. We welcome the common organisation of the markets and strengthening of the producer organisations, but I have problems firstly where there is a danger that costs are being pushed up unnecessarily and while we recognise that the level of intervention age needs increasing, maybe not in the way it is actually put here. With regard to tariff suspensions, we believe the criteria are rather over-strict, and we would like a more liberal system. We want to ensure that we can benefit the processing industry without affecting producers. With respect to herring, we agree that the tariff suspension should be turned into an annual quota, and we accept the recommendations for cod, Alaska pollack and shrimp. In terms of the amendments, we will certainly be opposing Amendment No 47 and I have to express some reservations on Amendments Nos 35 and 41, which we may be unable to support. – Mr President, I rise on a similar point, because I am not clear what the House has agreed to. We have agreed to vote at 6 p.m. What we could do is reduce the amount of speaking time for urgencies so there will be an opportunity for a debate on each of them. It is certainly not clear to the House that we have agreed to vote on urgencies that have failed to be discussed. – I apologise to Mrs Cederschiöld for mistiming my arrival and arriving after much of the debate. We had an opportunity in the committee for me to have an exchange of views with Mrs Cederschiöld about her report. I would like to congratulate her on the overall thrust of the report. My concerns are twofold, however. First, I am concerned about the size of the larger notes, particularly the five hundred euro note that is going to be issued, which is far larger than the largest note in common use in the United States, in the United Kingdom and in Japan. It obviously makes it attractive for counterfeiters, if they are going to counterfeit notes, to counterfeit large denomination notes, rather than smaller denomination notes and I am slightly concerned that this very large note will, if you want, make the euro the counterfeiter's currency of choice. Secondly, at the same time, of course, it will enable those people engaged in money laundering – I know this is not a report on money laundering, but it is a connected issue – to also move their ill-gotten gains around fairly easily and fairly simply. The amount of money that can be put into a small suitcase will be roughly ten times larger than it would have been if we had restricted the currency to smaller notes. There is a threat and an opportunity with the introduction of the euro. Firstly the threat is the counterfeiting and clearly, if that happens, it will drive people away from the euro, will have dire consequences for its use around the world if people are badly stung by that, but secondly, we have an opportunity at this period of time to actually catch people engaged in money laundering, as they make the change. We do not have, or we do not apparently have in place, any mechanism across the European Union to try and take advantage of that opportunity, or to try and deter at the point of introduction of the euro the threat of counterfeiting. It is all very well having something up and running later, but if I was organised crime, the time which I would be trying to engage in counterfeiting on a large scale would be around the period of introduction of the euro when you are going to have four hundred million people in the European Union and billions of people around the world who have never been familiar with the notes themselves. So I think that there is a threat there and I hope that the Commission and the European Central Bank, although it is probably too late to consider whether to issue a five hundred euro note, will actually consider whether they should issue it at the beginning of the process when there are so many dangers attached to it. Mr President, first, may I apologise to the House for missing much of this debate, but unfortunately I had to be present at the STOA Panel to vote to try and prevent the suppression of a scientific report at the behest of Europe's chocolate multinationals on inedibles in food. Doubly unfortunately, the vote was lost by 11 votes to 8. On Afghanistan, firstly I congratulate Mr Brie on his report on a difficult subject in a difficult country. I was privileged to be part of the delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy to Afghanistan in June 2003. It was clear that security is the paramount issue. Unfortunately, the glass increasingly seems to be half-empty, rather than half-full. The occupying coalition troops and the United States sit out their days in their fixed and mobile fortresses, when on the streets they exhibit the same heavy-handed style currently displayed in Iraq. ISAF has a footprint centred on Kabul, limiting its operations to 2% of Afghanistan's land area. The rest of the country is effectively abandoned to feuding warlords who monopolise revenues and dispense arbitrary justice in their private prisons, making President Karzai at times little more than the United States-backed mayor of Kabul. After the marines killed three Afghan national army soldiers in a friendly-fire exchange, ISAF stepped in to broker peace between the two groups, ostensibly on the same side. Yet for many in the Afghan national army, the ISAF and the United States troops are merely all flowers from the same garden. Campaigns without resources to spread ISAF's presence outside Kabul are wishful and wistful thinking. No-one seems able or willing to find the money to increase the number of troops – some 40 000 would be needed for nationwide coverage. In the south the main targets for the remnants of the Taliban are foreigners, but without reconstruction work, the temptation for the local population is to see the situation as no better, if not worse, than under the Taliban. Many people argue that large sections of the Taliban could be brought back into civic society, but to do that would be to shift the social centre of gravity back towards an Islamic conservatism that bodes ill for women's emancipation. Human rights is important, particularly the situation of women. Formal rights may well be given but they are unlikely to play out in the villages. The best hope for the future may be universal education, which will not change current attitudes but rather those of the next generation. The United States and the EU are pushing bottom lines that in practice are probably undeliverable. As the United Nations Special Representative said, if you are trying to introduce western-style democracy in Afghanistan, you are wasting your time. – Mr President, we were told by Council this morning that East Timor deserves our full support. We were told that we supplied observers that were crucial to the success of the referendum when the East Timorese said a very loud and very large “yes” to independence. We were told by the Council that the Commission is preparing social and economic assistance for a newly independent East Timor, all of which of course we welcome. But we are also told by Mrs Halunen that she was surprised at the terror that took place after the referendum. I am surprised that she was surprised. I was in Jakarta in August, as a special representative of the UNDP working with the Indonesian Parliament, the DPRK, on new rules for that parliament. It was clear to me then and more importantly to everybody else in Jakarta that firstly there would be a resounding yes in a referendum and secondly that the army, or at least large sections of the army, would try to subvert that process by engaging in and encouraging terror. We have seen that happen, but why we are surprised I do not know. I welcome the peacekeeping force. I welcome the humanitarian aid that is going to go in to help the 200,00 to 400,000 refugees. I welcome the fact that we were told that EUR 8 million would be available for that humanitarian aid. But it must be delivered quickly. I accept that in the interim it may be delivered by air. We are told it is going to be dropped in by helicopters from 1,500 metres. If you remember the aid we saw being airlifted in and dropped to some of the Kurdish refugees from the air, it was not very successful. If I recall correctly, some of the refugees were actually killed. As soon as possible that aid needs to be delivered on the ground. We need to make sure that it happens within days rather than weeks. I accept the need for the ban on arms. We need to stop arms sales to Indonesia and I welcome the four-month ban. It may be that it needs to be continued but at the same time we also need to be helping the Indonesians by providing them with assistance to ensure that very fragile democracy elected in the last general election is able to establish itself. Unless we do that in November or December we will be having a similar debate about Indonesia, telling each other how we knew it was all going to end in tears. Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists welcomes the peace agreement signed a Accra on 18 August 2003 under the authority of ECOWAS, the Economic Community of West African States. We are concerned that while this is holding in the capital, there are still problems in the rural areas, with reports even today of tens of thousands of people fleeing into Monrovia from Totota in Central Liberia. That is hardly surprising, with the alleged massacres of hundreds, and possibly thousands, of civilians perpetuated in Nimba County since the signing of the agreement. Fourteen years of violence and misrule in Liberia resulted in immense human suffering amongst civilians, as well as gross human rights violations, a breakdown in social and economic structures, and now 85% of the population is living below the poverty line. The arrival of the peacekeeping force has enabled the peacekeeping process to start, but there is still a long way to go. We look forward and call upon all the parties to the agreement to implement it in good faith and to establish a transitional government as promised on 14 October 2003, that will hopefully lead to free and fair elections. We welcome the fact that the European Union has provided aid to that process, amounting to EUR 15 million to date. We recognise that more may be necessary. The problem is that at the moment the peace agreement is holding in Monrovia, but less well outside. Part of that problem is that there is still a shortage of troops on the ground. There are only 1 500 out of a promised 3 500. Those troops are required as soon as possible. We equally ask that all the states in the region refrain from any actions that might contribute to instability in Liberia and on the borders between Guinea, Sierra Leone and the Côte d'Ivoire. We ask that these neighbouring states act with discretion. – Mr President, in the joint compromise resolution there is a reference to setting a deadline at the end of November for a restoration of democracy. Would the Commissioner accept that is a suitable target and a suitable deadline? Otherwise, the danger is the current government in Fiji will go on negotiating forever, but never come to a conclusion. Mr President, I congratulate Mr De Rossa on his report on the protection and conservation of great apes and other species endangered by the illegal trade in bushmeat. This report, as we have been told, arose from a petition signed by 1.9 million people EU-wide, which led the Committee on Petitions to produce its report. This was not, may I say, without resistance from certain political groups in this House. The Christian Democrats, many of whose press releases extolling the virtues of the De Rossa Report are today littering the press centre in Strasbourg, initially voted against the report being prepared. We in the animal welfare and conservation movements welcome the late conversion of British Conservatives to the side of animal welfare in this regard. The same is true of the Green and Liberal Groups who to begin with also voted against the report being prepared. In the interests of public health, public safety and the protection of endangered species, we will be supporting the demands for the EU to use both carrot and stick to encourage conservation of these endangered species in their indigenous habitats, to enable local communities to find alternative food sources and to prevent the illegal importation of bushmeat into the EU. Mr Corrie's mention of the recent seizure in Amsterdam of 2 000 monkey noses indicates all too well the extent of the trade and the suffering and devastation occasioned to these animals. We will not be supporting any of the three amendments, which we believe are misconceived and – deliberately or not – mischievous. Mr De Rossa's report is concerned with the illegal hunting of endangered species and in no way poses a threat to hunting in the European Union, as the EDD Group amendment claims. Apart from Gibraltar, where safeguarding the apes might be a welcome way of deflecting a Spanish threat, Europe has no great apes. Equally, the ELDR Group amendment is a contradiction in terms: there is no such thing as a sustainable level of hunting for critically endangered species. – Madam President, I welcome the Commission's communication, 'Europe and Asia: A Strategic Framework for Enhanced Partnerships', and Mr Maaten's report, for which we congratulate him. We have in the past too often neglected Asia and focused more on other regions of the world, but in fact it contains a majority of the world's population. We welcome the recognition, both in the report and the Commission statement, that we must engage with Asia, not only in trade and economics, but in other areas as well: cultural exchanges, for example, particularly between Europe and Asia's moderate Islamic states; justice and home affairs, in the war against terrorism, drugs traffic and organised crime, all self-evidently with a global dimension; environmental policy, where Europe and Asia face the same threat from pollution and environmental degradation; security policy, where, in an increasingly globalised world, a crisis on the Korean Peninsula – as Commissioner Patten mentioned – would threaten the peace and stability of the whole world. That is one reason why the European Union is engaged in the KEDO process. We therefore welcome the emergence of Asian voices speaking together through ASEAN and other regional fora. We also welcome and would like to encourage and deepen the widening of the ASEM process and its parallel parliamentary dialogue through ASEP. I had the opportunity to participate in the first ASEP meeting here in Strasbourg back in 1996 and in last week's second ASEP meeting in Manila, where we achieved a unanimity of views with statements on terrorism, the environment, on human rights for women and children. Here Members of the European Parliament from Germany, Spain, Belgium and Italy joined with colleagues from China, Japan, Korea and the Philippines to agree that Kyoto needs to be ratified; the UN must be the basis of the global war against terrorism; positive action is required to address discrimination against women; we should work with trade unions and other representatives of civil society to combat child labour. The fundamental problem is poverty, with hundreds of millions of people around the world, particularly in Asia, living on less than one euro a day. We hope Parliament will agree to the proposal in the amendment that I and other Members of Parliament have tabled to host ASEP III early in 2004. We can support the broad thrust of Mr Maaten's report. My only criticism is that an attempt has been made to hijack the report on behalf of the Taiwan lobby. Of course Members of Parliament have a perfect right to do this, but we should be aware of what we are being asked to approve. I would remind Members of the provisions of Rule 9(1), Annex I, Article 1 on declarations of interest. On behalf of the Socialist Group, I have tabled amendments to attempt to correct these distortions. Yes, we must recognise Taiwan as one of the most important trading entities for the EU, but here we are being asked to go further. If we want to abrogate our support of the one-China policy we followed in the past, we should do so directly, rather than by hiding it within paragraph 35 on the WHO. Membership of the World Health Organisation is restricted to nation states. To demand membership of the WHO for Taiwan is to recognise it as a nation state; to grant it an independence that its own government has not even requested. Equally I am at a loss to see why, if the PPE-DE Group is genuinely interested to allow the fundamental rights of freedom of travel for the President and senior officials of Taiwan's Government, it wants to restrict this to strictly private visits, rather than leave it more open. Otherwise we can only conclude, if they maintain their position, that this is really a subterfuge for opening up a political process that as yet we have not agreed. With these reservations, we support the report. – Mr President, the Socialist Group supported the compromise resolution on North Korea. We believe it is an important issue and I concur with my colleague, Mrs De Keyser, who spoke earlier. We are concerned about human rights in North Korea, as we are about human rights in the European Union, but we should recognise the fact that when Goran Perrson, Mr Solana and Mr Patten visited North Korea back in May 2000, there was an agreement that we would have a human rights dialogue with that country and that dialogue is ongoing. We are obviously critical and concerned about possession of the technology for uranium enrichment by North Korea. It could only make a delicate situation worse. Yet, there is little if any, attempt to impose sanctions against General Musharaf in Pakistan, who is responsible for counter-trading such sensitive technology for missiles. After all, it is not just North Korea that is outside the remit of the Non-Proliferation Treaty; we have Pakistan, India and Israel, all of which have nuclear weapons. The situation on the Korean peninsula is potentially far more dangerous than in Iraq. Here the passage from peace to war would put millions of lives at risk. Much has been made of the DPRK's secret acquisition of uranium enrichment technology in breach of the spirit, if not the letter, of the 1994 framework agreement. It is by no means absolved, but the faults are not entirely on one side. The 1994 framework agreement promised to deliver from the United States normalisation of relations, the end of the embargo, two light water reactors as part of the KEDO project and in the meantime 500 000 tons of heavy fuel oil per annum. In fact, nine years on, normalisation has not taken place, the embargo has not been lifted, the light water reactors are seven years late and, of course, the US strong-armed first Japan, then the Republic of Korea and then the EU into cutting off the supplies of heavy fuel oil. Then it was surprised that the DPRK did exactly what it said it was going to do and threatened to open its Russian-designed Yongbyong nuclear reactor which like all such reactors is capable of producing weapons grade plutonium. We want to talk. We want to negotiate. We welcome the proposed visit by Solana, Patten and the Presidency. This time we hope it will involve Parliament. Last time round, we were told it was a small delegation – it turned out they took 75 journalists. When we pointed this out to the Commission, they said next time around they would consider involving Parliamentarians. Finally, I would like to draw attention to paragraph 8. This calls for a permanent EU delegation in Pyongyang and, more importantly in the short-term, for the EU to convene seven-power talks on economic assistance, security and disarmament in the Korean peninsula including North and South Korea, the US, Japan, China and Russia. This offers a way forward for the future. . – I find the budget laid aside for the nonsensical tracking backwards and forwards from Brussels to Strasbourg almost impossible to support. There is no reason for such absurd peregrinations on political or economic, organisational or geographical grounds. It leads to inefficiency and waste. Unfortunately too many of the public believe this nonsense is a decision of Parliament and are not aware it is the product of the unholy deal done for the worst of all reasons at Edinburgh in 1992 under the presidency of John Major. Britain got a declaration on subsidiarity, an opt-out on the social chapter, thankfully overturned by the Labour victory in 1997. Germany got the recognition of Croatia and former Yugoslavia and, in consequence, a series of interlocking civil wars the results of which colour European history still today, and hence the perpetuation of an absurdity in Strasbourg we all hoped would finally end. We are now left stranded in Strasbourg until Parliament finds the political will to exert its own best interests and remove itself to Brussels with the odd symbolic sojourn in Strasbourg for formal occasions. – Mr President, in relation to the last debate, I cannot resist noting that Commissioner Liikanen did not thank those European Union football teams who have made a thankless contribution to helping decrease the likelihood of transmitting foot-and-mouth disease from South Korea by departing from the competition early. Speaking on behalf of the Socialist group on the resolution on Nepal, we have a situation where Maoist rebels are threatening a very fragile constitutional monarchy, and the situation is in danger of fast sliding into a civil war. Several thousand people have died and hundreds have been arrested. The way forward is clear: the Government must ensure respect for human rights and internal law. The alleged massacres of 500 Maoist guerrillas in May, if it is true, will only make the situation worse. We must provide the means from the European Union to try and find a peaceful solution to the current conflict, and the finance to help rebuild the economy, in particular in the rural areas. The government of Nepal itself must restore the rule of law and order and there is a need to set up an independent investigation into the allegations against the security forces. – Madam President, can I say we have made enormous progress over the last three years in terms of relations with the DPRK. We have now had three interparliamentary delegation meetings and the resolution calls for the Koreans to come here again to continue the dialogue. We have seen the European Commission move from not talking to the North Koreans to having an ECHO representative in Pyongyang and we have now moved from five Member States with diplomatic relations to, I understand, thirteen in the process of establishing diplomatic relations with the DPRK. I would like very much to see the European Community also establish diplomatic relations with the DPRK. We give money to the KEDO project as Mr Patten has said, we give humanitarian and food aid and are hoping to give other structural assistance, a total of EUR 275 m. It is crazy to be doing that without having the ability to have a political dialogue. We need a dialogue on human rights, we need a dialogue on weapon sales, we need a dialogue on economic development. The reality is that with the collapse of the Soviet empire, the failure to make the transition from the Stakhanovite heavy industries of the past to the new light industries and a series of natural disasters, the economy is in complete crisis. Observers are estimating that the resulting food crisis has led to the premature deaths of 3 million North Koreans, one in eight of the population. Today their only exports are raw materials and military hardware. If we can find a solution, we can help the people of the DPRK to help themselves with food aid and assistance in restarting and rebuilding agriculture, mining and non-nuclear energy projects. And if we involve ourselves in removing the imperative to export military material then we may force the incoming Bush administration to reconsider its apparent blind commitment to national missile defence with the threat to world peace and stability that poses. I would like to congratulate President Kim Dae-Jung of the Republic of Korea on his commitment to the sunshine policy which will allow the normalisation of inter-Korean relations and welcome Kim Jong Il's positive response. Dialogue is the way forward. Europe should pursue this not only because it is currently the policy of the Republic of Korea but because it is the right way to go. Our advantage is that we are not Japan or the United States and we can act as honest brokers in this most dangerous area of the world. – Two accidents have focused our attention over the last ten days. The first was in Tokaimura in which some 45 people were injured and 3 are in a critical condition in hospital. The second, was the rail crash in London which involved a train taking hundreds of people from the capital to the region of England I represent, in which 70 died and 200 were injured. While I wish to think of the individuals and families of those who died or were injured in the railway accident, I am afraid that the two accidents are very different. Accidents in transport systems can endanger the lives of hundreds of people. Unfortunately, a nuclear accident can affect potentially hundreds of thousands, if not millions of people. Mrs McNally made the point that near Tokyo, in Tokaimura, 300,000 people were confined to their homes. It appears that the accident was not as severe as we first thought. As a former Japanese civil servant, and as a member of the Japanese delegation for the last 15 years, I wish to put on our record, however, our concern for the victims of this accident in Japan. I want to make three political points: firstly, it is very clear that human error or human stupidity is continually with us in all areas of endeavour. We cannot trust individuals. In Tokaimura, it would appear either that the workers – with the active collusion of management or owing to the failure of management to enforce regulations – were breaching regulations that were there in the interest of nuclear safety. There are stories that there was actually an illegal handbook produced by the management telling workers to operate in this way. The swift action of the Japanese police going into the company may enable us to establish whether that is the case. If it was the case, it demonstrates the truth of Nietzche’s dictum that madness is rare in individuals but common in parties, groups and organisations, which is why we need individual, independent monitoring of what goes on in nuclear plants. We need someone to guard those people from their own stupidity and errors. Secondly, it is clear that there is a lack of emergency planning. Thirdly, we have to say that we should be offering assistance to the Japanese if they request it. Finally, two factual corrections; firstly, our Amendment No 6 makes it clear, when we are calling for the plant not to be reopened until an investigation has taken place, that we are talking about the conversion plant and not the reprocessing plant in Tokaimura, which is a separate plant on a separate site operated by a separate company... – Mr President, first can I congratulate Malcolm Harbour, the rapporteur, on his own-initiative report on the Next Generation Internet: the need for an EU research initiative. The degree of support for the report is indicated both by the fact that it was adopted unanimously in committee, and by the fact that there are no amendments. The House certainly appears to be fully in support. In the Socialist Group, we particularly support the high priority given to making sure that we include in the Sixth Framework Programme work on the Next Generation Internet, and that we develop a broad-banded infrastructure capability and a new super fast trans-European research network. We want to make sure that EU research initiatives complement market-driven research, thereby avoiding conflict or duplication. There are, however, at least four areas that are in need of clarification: first, in paragraph 2, we talk about the need for pre-competitive research. We agree that it should be pre-competitive, not uncompetitive, which may be a different term. The model we see is the Japanese model on research cartels where people work together during the development of a new technology before they go off and compete with each other when it gets close to the marketplace. Secondly, in paragraph 7, we talk about it being technologically neutral. That is fine, provided that is not an excuse for inaction where we wait for the technology to be determined. We need to feed into that process and be flexible, but we also need to be active. Thirdly on system security, it is clear that we need to be able to protect this Internet generation, and the next one, in terms of enabling people to engage in cash transactions and to transmit confidential information. I hope that the Commission will look at both the technology and the legislation that is needed to ensure that the necessary levels of encryption can be put in place to protect the public, without aiding the criminals. Finally, the key issues of universal access. The Commission will have to ensure that we achieve this and that it is available to everybody, and not just those living in urban areas. – Mr President, as you may be aware, there were a series of disgraceful riots in Oldham in the summer of 2000, provoked by members of extreme right wing groups such as the British National Party, the National Front and Combat 18. Film footage that appears to be that compiled by the local police has got into the hands of the local British National Party who are distributing it. Apart from the understandable security concerns of those involved, the apparent collusion between members of the local police and the British National Party can only cause concern to those who hope that the perpetrators on both sides will be dealt with by a system of justice that is blind to politics. I hope you will raise the matter with the British authorities. – I would like to express my disappointment and dismay at the PPE’s vote on the resolution on the World Conference Against Racism. Yesterday the PPE spokesman approached the Socialist Group to ask us to withdraw my Amendment No 1 because, if it were accepted, they would be unable to support the report. After much soul-searching in the Socialist Group we decided that we would withdraw that amendment in the interests of getting the largest majority possible in Parliament against the forces of racism, the extreme right and anti-Semitism. I have to say I do not know what conclusion to draw because it is clear from the vote that, in fact, after making that promise the vast majority of the PPE actually voted against the resolution. It is not clear whether they were lying or whether they were confused. I am not sure which is worse. What is clear is that some of those weeping crocodile tears yesterday for anti-Semitic attacks in Italy in order to get cheap publicity, today voted in a way that could only give aid and assistance to the racists, the anti-Semites and the extreme right in the European Union. – Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group and as a member of the Petitions Committee I welcome both the report from the Earl of Stockton and the opinion from the Employment and Social Affairs Committee drafted by Mrs Attwooll. The Reverend Owen is actually in the gallery today listening to this debate. His case is very simple. He was employed as a team rector in Stoke-on-Trent for a number of years. There was a secretive and flawed review of his work in the post and a decision was made at a meeting, without proper notice, that he was to be sacked. He was given no reasons for his dismissal. Like any employee he believed he had the right to an independent appeal against this casual ending of 30 years' work with the Church and a threat to his tied accommodation. Without a post in the Church he would be evicted from his family home. To cut a long story short, he was refused access to an industrial tribunal in the United Kingdom because of a 1911 judgment that members of the clergy have no terrestrial employer, that is, he is employed by God, although God does not sign his stipend cheques at the end of the month. However, employment legislation and the world have moved on since 1911. For example, women even have the right to vote, and, in the United Kingdom, female teachers no longer have to resign on getting married. Even in the EU, we have legislation that should apply in this case. No longer when you join the Church should have you have to leave your basic civil rights at the door. The Employment and Social Affairs Committee backs that argument, the Petitions Committee backs that argument. We believe that clergy throughout Europe should have the same employment rights as millions of other workers, the same rights as they enjoy already in Denmark, and in the United Kingdom if they happen to be hospital or prison chaplains. So there is even an anomaly within the United Kingdom. We hope the UK Government and the Commission will look again at this matter. I still believe that the directives have not been properly implemented in UK law. The Reverend Owen seems to meet all the criteria for being an employee. That the Reverend Owen has been badly treated by the Church of England seems very clear, and we hope that on the basis of this particular case, which is illustrative of a much more general problem affecting hundreds of clergy in the United Kingdom every year, the Commission will press the UK Government to close the loophole for future cases. In the United Kingdom, there are 30 000 clergy treated in this feudal manner: more than the number of those employed in the mining industry. Across Europe, close to a quarter of a million clergy, encompassing all faiths and religions, are employed and at the moment have some doubts as whether they are covered by this legislation. Finally, while we do not expect miracles, we ask that the Church authorities in the UK practise some of the Christian charity they preach in this particular case. – Can I congratulate Mrs Boumediene-Thiery on her report on special measures concerning the movement and residence of citizens of the Union which are justified on grounds of public policy, public security, or public health. It is a very good report. Unfortunately, in two minutes all I can do is talk about some of its failings. Firstly the Commission has failed to deal with the issue of the 12 to 14 million third-country nationals living legally in the Union who currently suffer discrimination and, outside the Union's island States can move freely de facto but cannot do so legally, which of course creates situations in which they are exploited and used in illegal ways. With all due respect for the rapporteur, I have to say that we also have a problem with a number of areas that she has not dealt with, one of which is the issue of football hooliganism. I am generally in favour of free movement but I think it needs to be limited. I do not normally believe that persons who have not been convicted of crimes should be prevented from moving freely, but there is a European problem that is being ignored at European level. Europol should be used to prevent the free movement of people who have been convicted of football-related crimes to ensure that they do not cause the same kind of trouble as at previous World Cup and European championship tournaments. I also believe that the provisions should be invoked on the grounds of public security to prevent the free movement of German neo-Nazis who produce Holocaust denial material in Denmark with the clear intention of reimporting it into Germany, where it is illegal. I hope that the Danish Government will use the provisions in this instance. Equally, we need to make sure that the system is not abused. I naturally hope that the free movement of people who have the misfortune to be HIV-positive is not restricted in any way on grounds of public health. I agree with Mr Tannock in principle. Of course the royal families of Europe should be allowed to move about freely. However, I disagree with his priorities. When we ignore the rights of 12 to 14 million legal residents, then the rights of two families are comparatively insignificant. – Mr President, this was a highly controversial report within the Industry Committee which only approved its opinion by 29 votes to 26. The division in the Environment Committee was overcome as the major groups managed to agree a compromise. On behalf of the Socialist Group, we support this compromise. We reject the view that the legal basis of the report is wrong. We support the creation within the EU of a single market in cigarette and tobacco products. At the same time, within the limits of Community law, we would like to use the opportunity of maintaining and strengthening public health protection within the EU. We believe that nicotine and tar levels need to be further limited and new limits should be imposed on carbon monoxide levels. We believe that health warnings should be bolder, clearer and larger. Nevertheless, my concern is that in some areas, our good intentions are in advance of common sense. If we are to have a single market, surely we should have mutual recognition of the common procedures for testing. It would be absurd to make each Member State test separately. Secondly, I hope that countries outside the EU will follow our lead in cutting limits on nicotine, tar and carbon monoxide. It seems absurd that we insist on exporting jobs from the EU to applicant countries and others to produce cigarettes that will be legal to import for personal consumption within the European Union. Thirdly, I accept that the latest research indicates that smokers compensate for lower tar levels by smoking light cigarettes differently. Nevertheless, banning such terms as "mild", "light" and "low" threatens to make illegal long-established extra-European brands like "Mild Seven" with all the consequences for the WTO rules and it will merely increase sales of thesauruses to the tobacco industry. If I were to be mischievous, I would recommend "Organic Green" or "One" as appropriate substitutes. Despite these reservations, I hope the general thrust of the report will receive strong support from Parliament. – Mr President, I speak on behalf of the Socialist Group in this debate on a resolution that has jointly been tabled by five groups. This clearly expresses our joint concerns about the executions of women and, more rarely, men by the cruel and barbaric practice of stoning and about the sharp rise in the use of the death penalty in Iran over the past two years. Seventy-five people died in 2000, 139 in 2001 and so far this year 250. We note the letter of 23 October from the Iranian ambassador to the EU, assuring us that there have been no cases of stoning in recent months and that directives have been issued by the competent authorities for the cessation of this process and are being observed. Nevertheless, we are not entirely reassured while sentences of death by stoning continue to be passed and while the use of the death penalty more generally continues to grow. The European Parliament and the EU generally protest against the use of the death penalty throughout the world, whether it be in the United States, China, Japan or anywhere else, and Iran is no exception. Nevertheless, we recognise that sections of Iranian society are trying to move on. Forces of progress who want to see a less cruel form of Islamic society exist and they are growing in numbers. This resolution does not threaten talks between the EU and Iran regarding future trade and cooperation agreements, though it is clear that this will include a human rights clause. The European Parliament, which has to approve such agreements, will watch with close attention. – Madam President, I congratulate the four rapporteurs on their work, and in particular Baroness Ludford for carrying forward work that I, amongst others, helped to initiate nearly a decade and a half ago with the first Committee of Inquiry into Racism and Fascism in Europe, whose rapporteur, in fact, was an excellent member of the Christian Democrat Group and of Nea Dimokratia, Dimitrios Evregenis, of whose work Mr Le Pen has said that he will use all means possible to prevent its being put into practice. I wish to make two comments with respect to the reports in front of us; one on the Belder report, which contains a version of an amendment which I have tabled concerning the treatment of the Russian-speaking minorities in Estonia and Latvia. I believe it has a place here. What was happening 15 years ago in Austria was that Mr Haider was actually persecuting the Slovene-speaking minority there. Very few of us wanted to stand up and say anything at the time. We need to tell the Estonians and the Latvians that, if they continue that treatment, their prospects of joining the European Union will be that much less. Secondly, the Ludford report has a series of amendments tabled by the Christian Democrats challenging a series of paragraphs that were originally in the Evregenis report 15 years ago – and were approved by the Christian Democrats then – on the amendment of the Staff Regulations to allow ethnic minority members to join the European Community staff. On voting rights, on the selection of ethnic minority candidates, what I do not understand is whether they have no institutional memory or whether, a more sinister development, their political position has changed. – Mr President, I wish to make three points. Firstly, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, the draftspeople and the Commission – in particular Commissioner Diamantopoulou – on the directive and the report we have in front of us. It has been a long time coming. I was the chairman of the European Parliament’s Committee of Inquiry into the growth of racism and fascism in Europe back in 1986, when our rapporteur, Mr Evregenis, proposed such legislation. I myself was the rapporteur for the Committee of Inquiry into Racism and Xenophobia in 1990 that reiterated that demand. I suppose in a way it was worth waiting. We have here legislation that will make a real impact on the lives of the 12 to 14 million third country nationals living in the European Union and the 4 million black Europeans. Secondly, and without subtracting an iota from my support for the report and the directive as a whole, the Council will have to resolve a number of outstanding issues: on representative actions, on the definition of indirect discrimination and, as the previous speaker said, on the burden of proof. The last of these must be workable, because otherwise we will keep the previous speaker happy! The best basis is the existing burden-of-proof legislation, which is now underpinned by 25 years of case-law, and where the numbers are not available, expert opinion will suffice. Thirdly and finally, I wish to warn my colleagues in the PPE Group. Many of them – the large majority I believe – have been genuinely concerned that Parliament’s procedures have not given them adequate time to consider the detail. Yet a few clearly have darker motives. With Mr Haider and Mr Le Pen lurking in the background, the Vlaams Blok and the Movimento Sociale Fiamma Tricolore promoting racism and xenophobia, the PPE Group, as a whole, should not be surprised if people conclude that if they continue with their technical objections, then this is a thinly disguised attempt to block these proposals which the vast majority of Europe so much welcomes. Those who lie down with dogs get fleas. Mr President, on behalf of the PSE Group, I wish to say that we recognise the importance of Ukraine as a country with historical, cultural and economic ties to the EU and with long-term aspirations of membership of the European Union. We also welcome the preparation by the Commission of the action plan – due to be ready in spring this year – that will enable Ukraine to integrate progressively into EU policies and programmes. However, a genuine partnership can only develop on the basis of shared common values, in particular democracy, the rule of law and respect for human and civil rights. At the moment, those conditions are not being met in Ukraine and the situation is deteriorating. Prison conditions, arbitrary detention and excessively long periods of pre-trial detention in Ukraine remain serious problems. Freedom of expression – as some of my colleagues have mentioned in more detail – is coming under increasing threat and there have been a number of serious violations of the rights of the independent media and journalists. We therefore call on the Ukrainian authorities to improve prison conditions and end arbitrary detention and excessively long periods of pre-trial detention. We call on the government of Ukraine to respect freedom of expression and to undertake sustained and effective measures to prevent and punish interventions against free and independent media. We ask the government to clarify allegations that its secret services were instructed to spy on journalists and Ukrainian and foreign politicians in their respective home countries in order to discourage them if necessary from continuing to take up human rights issues. We ask the Ukrainian authorities to make a formal commitment to hold October's forthcoming presidential elections in conditions of the greatest possible transparency, and hope that the European Commission will consider, along with Parliament and other bodies, whether we should send an election observation mission. –Mr President, speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group on this Danish initiative for a framework directive on combating environmental crime, I must say that I support the principle of this initiative. Environmental crime, whether it be the illegal trade in endangered species of flora and fauna or their products, or whether it be the illegal export and dumping of toxic waste in other countries, either inside or outside the European Union, is a growing and increasingly a cross-border problem. Those engaged in these crimes in the search for profit hide within the interstices of European law. This cannot be allowed to continue. It is important that we have legislation in place to protect us against serious environmental crime before we see further enlargement of the European Union. At the moment, we have nothing to combat these crimes but derisory financial penalties. We must impose prison sentences as well as serious financial penalties and orders for restitution when people are found guilty of environmental crimes. We must identify as culprits not the victims who drive the lorries full of toxic waste, or hawk the products which threaten species, but those who make the decisions and who supply the goods, the big men and women rather than the little men and women. As usual, of course, the devil is in the detail. The Danes want harmonisation in criminal law, increased European cooperation, a register of expertise and know-how and the use of Europol. Some difficulties exist in resolving all of these to the satisfaction of the 15 Member States of the Union. All can be resolved, but some will have to wait. It is probably too early at this stage, for example, to widen Europol’s remit without overloading the work of this important organisation. This proposal suffers from the same problems we have too often in the European Union. Without increased resources, Europol’s capabilities are limited, but I congratulate Mr Di Lello Finuoli on his report. – Mr President, I add my congratulations to Mrs Vlasto for her report, which was adopted unanimously in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. It deals with the issue of the Lisbon European Council which had the objective of making the European Union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world and link that to the Feira Council which endorsed a European charter for small enterprises. Clearly, as Mrs Vlasto said, small enterprises are one of the keys to success in the European economies. I should like to make three points. Firstly, the report details the very low levels of investment in research and development – 1.19% of GDP inside the European Union. This is particularly acute in industrial sectors dominated by SMEs. I would like us to look at the idea, at a European level, of research institutes paid for by a levy on the relevant industries, which the Japanese have used so successfully in getting innovation in research and development in such industrial sectors. Secondly, we need to look at the issue of better regulation to simplify and streamline our regulations. I have no problem with imposing burdens on business to improve, for example, the environment, but we need value for money. One of the recent studies in the United Kingdom suggested that the end of vehicle life directive, for example, cost GBP 400 million a year and benefits the environment only to the tune of GBP 100 million a year. If that is correct, that is something that should not have been adopted into law in the European Union. So we need to be aware of the impact of our legislation on business and jobs. Therefore we support the Chichester amendment in principle and will be voting in favour of it. Thirdly, we must look more widely at whether SMEs that serve local markets only should have the same burdens imposed on them as large companies exporting around the European Union and outside. In many cases local knowledge can suffice to protect consumers. Regulations are needed when the goods and services from anonymous companies are remote from the consumer both geographically and in terms of local knowledge. – Mr President, on 17 October this year 40 000 members of the armed forces launched Operation Clean Heart in Bangladesh. It resulted in house-to-house raids and searches aimed specifically at the Awami League's voters, party workers, the Hindu community and members of opposition political parties. Thousands were arrested and held in incommunicado detention. 25 people are alleged to have died after being tortured while in detention. The claim that these deaths were the results of heart attacks is frankly incredible. We call upon the Government of Bangladesh to hold an independent inquiry into who is responsible for this, to release members of parliament and opposition political leaders and to establish a Bangladesh national human rights committee. We would ask the Commission to liaise with the Government of Bangladesh under the cooperation agreement to ensure that violations stop and that human rights are protected, and request that the European Parliament be kept informed. This resolution contains many points that I fully support on the IGC, on the Charter of Fundamental Rights and other aspects of Community policy. However, I find myself unable to support it because of the inclusion of paragraph 8 on Austria. I was proud of the EU when it imposed sanctions on Austria when the new coalition formed because of the views and actions of the Freedom Party: a party whose policies have xenophobia running through them like Blackpool through rock; a leader who has praised Hitler and the Waffen SS, refused to condemn terrorist bombings against Roma and congratulates Nazi war veterans for keeping to their principles. Since then little has changed. Freedom Party ministers continue to echo Nazi party slogans and rhetoric of the Thirties and Forties. It is too soon now to allow Austria fully back into the European fold. It will send the wrong message to the Freedom Party and their fellow travellers elsewhere in Europe. In memory of the victims of yesterday I will vote "no" to their collaboration with the criminals of tomorrow. – Mr President, the Socialist Group welcomes the statement from the Commission. There is no final proof that they have weapons-grade plutonium available and, of course, I support the compromise resolution between a number of groups in this institution. We fully and firmly agree with the trilateral statement made by President Bush, Prime Minister Koizumi and President Kim Dae-jung at the APEC Summit meeting at the weekend calling on North Korea to dismantle its admitted uranium enrichment programme in a prompt and verifiable manner and to come into full compliance with all international obligations in conformity with North Korea's recent commitment in the Japan-North Korea Pyongyang Declaration. Nevertheless, we cannot be entirely blind to the fact that the 1994 framework agreement has not been fulfilled in its entirety by the US either. The first reactor from KEDO scheduled to be online by the end of next year is currently running seven years late. Deliveries of heavy fuel oil, the US contribution to KEDO, have, in the past at least, been sporadic. Most importantly, the US commitment in 1994 to normalise relations, lift the embargo on North Korea – which has been in place for 50 years – and lift the nuclear threat have still not been fulfilled. We welcome the North Korean offer to engage in dialogue on all outstanding issues, which may mean that this becomes an opportunity rather than a threat. We need to look at the issue of missile sales and testing, and the linked inevitable missile exports. We must look at the signing of the Chemical and Biological Weapons Convention by North Korea and outstanding problems around the issue of abductees from Japan. Also, of course, we must look for a continuation of the human rights dialogue. In the meantime, I hope that the EU, as the only entity with diplomatic relations with the Republic of Korea, Japan, the US and with the DPRK, will help to initiate such a dialogue, if possible in concert with the other key actor in the region – China. We must maintain humanitarian aid and continue the training of North Korean technicians in Europe if only to take this opportunity. Two small corrections: firstly, Mr Gawronski said the North Koreans refused our invitation. This was not the case. They only had four days notice and asked for it to be postponed until a later date. Secondly, the meeting scheduled for 11 November 2002 will not now take place and I hope we can move an oral amendment to make the point more general in terms of wanting EU involvement at all levels in these discussions. – Mr President, I had the privilege of being a member of the Council of Ministers' Consultative Committee on Racism and Xenophobia, along with Professor Pelinka. He was a highly valued if not slightly boring member, who tried to prevent us going too far in our recommendations and acted as a brake on some of us who were more enthusiastic about pushing forward. Is the Council aware that the management committee of the Monitoring Centre has passed a resolution expressing regret at the resignation of Professor Pelinka and the events leading to that resignation and is the Council prepared to draw the attention of the Wise Men to this particular incident and ask them to include that in their report because it clearly seems to be a possible example of how our common European values are being undermined by the current government in Austria? Mr President, on behalf of the PSE Group, I can say we will be supporting this compromise text on the situation in Burundi. We were all shocked by the brutal murder of Monsignor Michael Courtney – the Apostolic Nuncio, and a man who had been playing a key part in the peace process in Burundi – in a road ambush on 29 December 2003. All the indications are that he was murdered by Agathon Rwasa's rebel FLN. Despite the murder, we welcome the fact that the FLN has now expressed for the first time a willingness to engage and meet with the President of the Republic with a view to opening peace negotiations. Last November saw the peace process gather momentum, with the signing, on 16 November, of a peace agreement between the transitional government of Burundi and the Forces for Defence of Democracy movement. Yet fighting is still going on in several provinces, especially in rural Bujumbura. The UN Secretary-General has rightly said that the Burundians must experience an improvement in their living conditions if this peace process is not to be jeopardised. The human rights situation continues to get worse, and so we urge the African Union and its Member States to exert every possible pressure on the FLN with a view to bringing them to the negotiating table in an attempt to seek a peaceful political settlement. We call on the UN Security Council to consider the rapid constitution and deployment of a UN peacekeeping operation to support the peace process at this crucial moment and to strengthen and complement the African Union's peacekeeping mission, which has already been deployed. We also call on all states participating at the Donor Conference for Burundi to make sure there are sufficient funds for human rights promotion and protection. – Mr President, I will be brief. I support this report and congratulate the rapporteur on her work. The Socialist Group welcomes the Commission reform of the Advisory Committee on Fisheries to create a more fruitful two-way dialogue between the Commission and the industry. We welcome the inclusion in the Advisory Committee of new sectors of the industry and the greater diversity of professional sectors involved, particularly those in aquaculture and marketing. We welcome the reduction in the number of members in the Plenary Committee in the interest of greater efficiency. We all know the danger of proliferating numbers at the expense of efficiency. The Commission seems to have taken that into account. We welcome the increased role of the research organisations and the establishment of the four working groups on: firstly, access to fisheries resources and their management; secondly, aquaculture, fish, molluscs and shellfish; thirdly, marketing and trade policy; fourthly, economic and structural sectoral analysis. We like the priority for Community-level organisations to try and avoid nationalising the debate, but we recognise that there need to be some national inputs at the appropriate levels. We will give this report our support, while promising to maintain a close watch to ensure that the structural changes that promise much actually deliver in practice; and that the new Advisory Committee on Fisheries and Aquaculture acts as an effective sounding board for all sectors and all sides of the industry. – Mr President, Europe suffered across the whole continent from the recent spate of flooding, whether it was in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Italy, Spain or France; hitting, amongst other regions in the United Kingdom, Wales and Yorkshire; in Ireland, Leinster and Munster; in Italy, Liguria and Lombardy. There was a destruction of homes, of energy, communication and transport networks. In my own region, the Southwest of England, we had all of these consequences. The main railway line between Cheltenham and Swindon remains closed. It will be closed for a month because of the damage caused by the floods. We came within an inch or so of the town of Tewkesbury being cut off. Two major roads were cut for a number of days: the A38 north of Gloucester and the A417 west of Gloucester. It is the worst flooding in the United Kingdom since 1947. In Devon, the River Taw had the highest level since records began. In Somerset, we had tidal flooding across the coastline. In Dorchester, the River Frome was so high that a major-incident plan was invoked to deal with the possible consequences. We still remain on stand-by at the moment. Tens of millions of pounds' worth of damage has been done and I agree with Mrs Lambert that we must take action to deal with our contribution towards the cause of the flooding in terms of our planning regulations, in terms of reforestation, in terms of all of the actions we have taken to make flooding that much more dangerous than in the past. We also require the EU to give help and assistance, not just in the southwest but across all of the areas that have been affected. The resolution calls on the Commission and the Member States to waste no time in expressing their support in practical ways by marshalling workers and equipment under the five-year plan establishing a Community action programme in the field of civil protection which was adopted on 9 December 1999. We also call on the Commission to make use of all existing funding: ERDF, EAGGF, Guarantee Section, which have already been assigned for use in dealing with disasters of this nature to provide financial aid to SMEs, to farmers, to households, the elderly and others affected, particularly those living in exposed areas who have limited protection as recompense and as assistance towards a speedy recovery. – Mr President, I endorse what the rapporteur, Mr Marinho, said. The truly tragic events of last week emphasise the importance of the fight against terrorism and organised crime. The coalition we are striving to build across the world to fight against terrorism is trying to find a cure to the problem, but there is also the issue of prevention in terms of security and diplomacy. Other steps too are necessary if we are going to prevent those kinds of crimes from happening again. The second directive on money laundering is already in conciliation and we are trying to get it through. We have to recognise that at European Union level we need only one legal area. It is illogical for people to apply for asylum between one Member State and another within the European Union. It is illogical for us to have a situation where a warrant for arrest is not applicable across the whole of the European Union. There was a case where someone fled to the United Kingdom from France and managed to stall his extradition back to France for the crime of terrorism. He has actually faced the courts for a period of five years. The series of reports we have before us this morning attempt to move things forward. Mr Marinho's report is part of that initiative by the French, Swedish and Belgian governments and I congratulate him and them on this report. A judicial decision in one Member State must have automatic application across the whole of the Union. We must have the mutual recognition that Mr Marinho calls for. Mr bin Laden has a London bank account. One might hope that this report will make it easier for that account and similar accounts elsewhere in Europe to be frozen if that was proven necessary. On behalf of the party of European Socialists, I support this report and the similar measures that will follow in the other reports this morning and in subsequent weeks and months. The best memorial for those innocent people who died so tragically last week is to take action to prevent its repetition. This is one small part of that process. – Mr President, we agreed that we would take the debate on Buitenweg, not that we would spend one hour on it. For example, I have been told that I will be speaking just after an hour into the debate, so I guess the Buitenweg debate will take probably an hour and a half at least. It was not agreed we would reduce the time of that debate, let us be clear on that. – Mr President, I should like to express my concern that nobody in the French presidency can read any of the European languages apart from French. Also on this point, will the presidency confirm that under the Treaty it is the Fourteen – minus the country concerned – which would make a recommendation to suspend Austria from membership, should that be necessary? I am not arguing that it is necessary, but should it be necessary, could we not expect a view from the presidency over whether this particular case actually causes it some concern? Is it not right and proper that the same person should not be judge, jury and executioner and that the person making the accusation should not also be the minister of justice at the same time? Would one not criticise this kind of situation in, let us say, Zimbabwe or some other part of the world, if it arose there? – Mr President, I may not look like Mr Schulz but I am deputising for him. The Socialist Group is deeply concerned by the continuing civil war that has claimed around two million casualties over the last 19 years. Of course we welcome the signing on 15 October of the peace agreement between the government in Sudan and the SPLA. We will be looking very closely at whether the government's pledge to respect human rights and the rule of law is met and whether there are moves towards democratisation that will result in the establishment of a democratically elected executive and legislature. We ask the Commission to provide us with a report on the possible involvement of European oil companies in abuses committed against local communities in the oil- producing areas. We certainly do not support the idea that the ACP-EU Parliamentary assembly should meet in Sudan next year. It may be possible in the future but we will have to see how things develop in Sudan. We need a dialogue between Sudan and the European Union, but before we resume normal relations we would want to see progress towards ending terrorism and support for terrorist groups, religious tolerance, human rights and of course an end to the civil war. – Mr President, there has been some interest in my commitment to Austria. I have to say to Mr Pirker that I have been interested in what has been happening in Austria for some time. I was there in 1986 protesting about Mr Haider’s discrimination against the Slovene speaking minority in Corinthia. While I accept, of course, that individual members of the Freedom Party may well be impeccable and upstanding individuals, there is a phrase that those that lie down with dogs get fleas. So it may be unfortunate that some people who have chosen particular political parties get labelled in that way but it is their own ultimate responsibility. Can I congratulate Baroness Ludford on her report. She has put a great deal of work into it. I have to say, however, and it is not her fault, that there are sins of omission as far as I am concerned. Commissioner Diamantopoulou made the point very clearly that there are two monsters facing us here in Europe, terrorism and racism. We have to recognise that those monsters exist and I am not sure that we do in this particular resolution. There is still a view that there is not really any racism in Europe. If there is any racism, it is fairly small and, if it does exist, it is the fault of the victims. I reject that. We have had in East Germany the assassination of a Mozambique man, attacks on migrant workers in Spain, an attack on a Jewish professor in Italy, and the continued rise of racism within football that was presented to us yesterday by those people who are campaigning around the “ Show racism the red card” slogan. We have had the recent condemnation of a terrorist bomber in the United Kingdom, David Copeland, who killed gay people and non-gay people in a gay bar and, of course, we have had the effective sacking of Professor Pelinka from the Observatory by the Austrian Government. If Europe wishes to play a central role in the World Conference Against Racism it has to start seeing itself as others see it rather than as we would like to be. Mr President, speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group, we realise that EU targeted sanctions against the Burmese military regime – the State Peace and Development Council – require review and renewal before 29 April 2004. When the Council initially imposed sanctions, they agreed to monitor closely the further evolution of the situation in Burma and reaffirmed its readiness to react proportionately to future developments. The situation, in our view, has not substantially improved. Aung San Suu Kyi, imprisoned until September 2003, is now again under house arrest where she remains without access to telephone communication and where visitors require government permission to see her. There are 1 350 prisoners, many members of the National League for Democracy in jail in Burma. Last week, the United Nations Special Envoy to Burma, Rosali Ishmael, had meetings with both Aung San Suu Kyi and General Kin-Yun, Burma's authoritarian leader. When he returned, he stated that the release of Aung San Suu Kyi and other detained NLD leaders was an essential pre-condition for any meaningful dialogue with the regime. The United Nations Special Rapporteur said that the most urgent requirements today are for the lifting of remaining restrictions on freedom of expression, freedom of movement, information assembly and association, the repeal of security legislation and the opening and re-opening of all political party offices throughout the country. There are numerous human rights abuses in Burma: forced labour, persecution of dissidents, conscription of child soldiers, etc. We call for Aung San Suu Kyi and all those detained or put under house arrest to be immediately and unconditionally released, along with all other political prisoners, and for the NLD offices closed in May 2003 to be reopened. We also insist that the authoritarian government release its grip on power and that the results of the last election are allowed to stand. We demand that sanctions be strengthened if this does not happen. We equally insist that Burma should not attend the ASEM meeting scheduled for April 2004 in the Republic of Ireland, and that the presidency should refuse to issue the relevant visas. – Mr President, the Socialist Group welcomes very much the official visit to North Korea and to Seoul by the Council, Commission and the High Representative of the CFSP. Commissioner Patten, when he reported back to the Foreign Affairs Committee yesterday, said that the visit had gone ahead with modest aims, but those modest aims have been achieved and we welcome that. As a parliamentarian, I am rather disappointed that the delegation managed to fit in 75 journalists but could not manage any parliamentarians on the grounds that the delegation was a small one. I hope on future occasions the Commission and the Council might consider taking some parliamentarians along, particularly in the light of the fact that relations between North Korea and the European Union were pioneered by the European Parliament, over two years ago, when we sent our first official delegation. I welcome the fact that there were good talks with Kim Chong-il. Clearly North Korea is a state of concern. We welcome the fact that they are continuing their moratorium on missile tests until 2004. I recognise that at the moment they have very little option but to export military equipment. They produce hardly any goods that anyone wants to buy apart from military equipment. So it is hardly surprising that the No-dong I and No-dong II weapons which have a range of 1 300 kilometres have been sold to Iran, Syria and Pakistan or that the North Koreans are giving military aid to the Congo, Iran, Ethiopia and Syria. The problem will be if they continue to test the Taepodong, which will have a range of something between 4 000 and 6 000 kilometres. Obviously we welcome the moratorium. We welcome the further aid that is going to given in the form of food aid. We need improved access for European Union monitors to make sure that the aid is being distributed properly. We welcome the increased assistance in the agricultural sector, particularly in the life of what we have been told that there is now some recognition that reform has to take place. It is important to train North Koreans in modern industrial and clerical skills and we need to give aid in a non-nuclear energy sector as well as raising the textile quotas. It is important that we have a human rights dialogue and I welcome the fact that on 13 June that dialogue is going to take place. No one has mentioned KADO; the European Union is participating in the KADO programme for building two nuclear power stations in North Korea. Unfortunately, we have cut the budget this time compared to the last time and if we are serious about assisting Kim Dae-jung with his sunshine policy that sends exactly the wrong signals. We are very keen that diplomatic relations be established and I urge the Commission and the Council to consider placing an office in Pyongyang rather than making the Beijing office responsible for North Korea. There will be no day-to-day contact if that is the case. There is a distinction at the moment between the EU and the US and we hope we can move forward together, but if we cannot we will have to move forward separately, because the direction we are going is the right one. – Mr President, I recently represented the Group of the Party of European Socialists at the Socialist International Asia-Pacific Committee in Manila, where we had a first-hand opportunity to learn of the increasingly repressive regime in Malaysia. The government has used the tragic events of 11 September as an excuse for a crackdown on peaceful democratic opponents of the current regime who have no connections with either al-Qa'ida or any terrorist or fundamentalist groups. The Internal Security Act, the Emergency Public Order and Prevention of Crime Ordnance and the Dangerous Drugs Special Prevention Measures Act all allow for detention without trial. It is important that pressure is put on the Malaysian Government by the Council, the Commission and Parliament to release those held under these laws, to repeal them and to fully restore the right to a fair and public trial and respect for human rights in that country. – Madam President, I speak as someone who is in support of a tax on speculative capital movements across currency borders. It seems to me blindingly self-evident that some action is necessary. In the last 30 years, the volume of currency transactions has increased by 83 times: firstly, total global reserves of all central banks barely amounts to one day of foreign exchange trading; secondly, annual global trade in real goods and services equals just three-and-a-half days of foreign exchange markets out of 350, that is, 1% of capital movements are for trade in goods and services and 99% are for speculation. The size, unpredictability and irrationality of the global foreign exchange markets have made it harder and harder to manage national and regional economies. Computer-controlled selling programmes turned a random blip into an avalanche, burying jobs, lives and industries across the globe. The only arguments against it are: firstly, it would impair the efficiency of the foreign exchange market – a little fanciful in light of the financial feeding frenzies we have seen that have destroyed jobs throughout the world, in East Asia, Europe and Latin America. Mr Chirac has described those who engage in this as the Aids virus of the world economy. What is necessary is to throw some sand into the wheels of the currency speculators, stockbrokers and option traders. Of course, this cannot be done in one country; it cannot be done within the single currency area, but it could be done at international level with global cooperation. Europe, Japan and the US – the euro, the yen and the dollar, would constitute, in my opinion, such a block. I am disappointed in the EPP. I thought at least they read the resolutions they were going to vote on. Yes, I am in favour of such a tax, but it is not what we are going to vote on tomorrow. What we are going to vote on tomorrow is to ask the Commission to study the matter, to look at what steps and what conditions would be necessary for the introduction of such a tax. Equally I understand the Commissioner failing to endorse such a tax, but I cannot understand why he failed to have the courage to welcome the opportunity to demonstrate the truth of his position by a study of the issue. There is nothing so closed as a closed mind. The tax has the support of 47% of the people in the UK, according to a recent survey by War on Want. In France it has had enormous resonance, particularly when linked to a demand to use the proceeds to help the Third World out of its debt and poverty. This issue can no longer be ignored by Parliament, the Council or the Commission. There is now a weight of public opinion demanding an answer more sophisticated than: "It has not been done before". In the new millennium, with new global problems requiring new global solutions, they need to give good arguments why it cannot be done now, rather than why it has not been done in the past. – Mr President, the meeting mentioned on 11 November 2002 is now no longer taking place, so we would like to amend paragraph 6 to read 'expects the EU to be invited as a full member to all meetings discussing the future of KEDO'. – I have three brief questions for Mr Moscovici. Firstly, will he come and speak to us as a militant on a future occasion? Secondly, is he aware that the recent Labour Party Conference passed a document which overwhelmingly said that they would work with its international partners and all stake-holders towards addressing the concerns raised by advocates of the Tobin Tax and introducing new mechanisms for international stability and better global financial regulation? And thirdly, as he says he can neither say yes nor no at the moment, is he willing to argue for the European Union to conduct a study of these matters so that in future we will be able to say yes or no, and be able to make some sensible contribution to the UN Financing for Development Conference that is coming up at the beginning of 2002? Mr President, on a point of order under Rule 181 of the Rules of Procedure, I tabled a written declaration under Rule 51 calling for a boycott of Ferrero SpA. This was initially distributed, but on 9 March I received a letter from President Cox stating that in his view it was inadmissible and he was therefore withdrawing it from circulation. Search as I may through the Rules of Procedure, I can find no rule allowing the President to act in such an arbitrary manner and no rule is quoted in his letter. I therefore request that the matter be referred to the committee responsible. There is a long tradition of political campaigning through boycotts: Barclays over South Africa, Nestlé over breast milk substitutes and Shell over both Brent Spar and Kabinda. I find it staggering that the European Parliament forces us to be gagged in this way, without the appropriate committee being consulted. I therefore ask that you refer the matter to the appropriate committee for urgent consideration. – Mr President, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and say that the proposals on the simplification of legislation in the internal market that were launched in 1996 are very welcome. An attempt was made there to improve the quality of legislation, to try to cut down on superfluous legislation and to limit the costs associated with implementing legislation. Now that we have finished the third and fourth phases, with teams of Member State officials and users identifying concrete suggestions to simplify legislation, it is right that we have a review. We need to have clearer definitions of what is going on. Improved selection at the moment seems to be fairly random and we need some clear guidelines for the operation of the management teams and, of course, the implementation of recommendations which, at the moment, are too little and too late. Many of the recommendations are not implemented at all and many have to wait considerable periods of time. So we are in favour, but there are two things we want to add. Firstly, we have to ensure that political control remains with the Commission and Parliament. Recent press reports on the new approach to legislation dating from the 1980s and '90s – not so new now – which allowed the detail of legislation to be worked out by industry-led standardisation organisations, seem to indicate that this is not always the best way forward. The European Committee for Standardisation, for example, recently did work on the packaging of waste directive, which the press has described as "fundamentally flawed, undermines democratic accountability and fails to meet the demands of the directive or, for that matter, environmental protection". So we need to ensure that there is political control there, unless of course there are strong political or consumer pressures to ensure that industry makes progress. However, we would also wish to go further in a different direction. SLIM seems to have become fundamentally about simplification, even though in the original proposals we talked about limiting costs. What we would like to see are proposals for dealing with economy of legislation as well as simplicity. We therefore welcome the proposals from Lisbon for better regulation, which will look at the costs of legislation; we welcome the informal meeting of ministers of public administration held in Strasbourg on 7 November; we welcome the establishment of the high-level group to look at recommendations on making legislation more cost-effective; but we are disappointed that the promised European Parliament representative on that high-level group has not been appointed by Parliament nor, as far as I understand, have we been approached to appoint such a representative. We welcome the fact that Commissioners Bolkestein and Liikanen are looking at various pilot projects in this area. However, the Commission and Parliament will have to begin to act on their own rules in looking at the financial implications of legislative proposals in order for them to be taken into account. It can only devalue our work in the European Parliament if claims can be made, for example, that the end-of-vehicle-life directive will cost us £400m a year in terms of the cost to the producers and the consumers but will only deliver £100m a year of benefit to the environment. While such claims can be made, obviously we in this Parliament will look rather ludicrous. – Mr President, I had the honour of representing the European Parliament on the management committee of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia and one of my colleagues there was Professor Doctor Anton Pelinka, representing the Austrian government. He played an important role in our deliberations, counselling moderation when others wanted to move too far and too fast, resisting cheap easy stereotyping of those we were investigating and imposing fact in preference to fantasy. All in all, he was a frustrating friend for those of us who wanted to move further and faster. I was therefore shocked to discover that state victimisation has been taking place against Professor Pelinka, first when Haider's lawyer, acting as prosecutor and judge in the case of libel against Mr Haider, whom Professor Pelinka described as responsible for having made National Socialist positions and statements politically acceptable. Second, when he was constructively dismissed from his position as vice-president of the management committee of the Monitoring Centre through administrative harassment by sections of the current Austrian government. This resolution charges our Committee on Civil Liberties, as Mr Watson requested on Monday, to follow these developments closely. Perhaps we should not be surprised at what has happened. Mr Haider said in 1992 of Professor Pelinka, after the latter had pointed out the Nazi past of Hans Steinecker, a precursor of the Freedom Party: "The time is up for falsifiers of history and those who insult Austria. Pelinka has a disturbed relationship with Carinthia and his manner of permanently propagating falsehoods is unacceptable." In March this year the Freedom Party said: "The newspapers were right once again. Now he (Häider) is threatening us." But he is not threatening anybody. It is quite normal. When I feed a dog and it bites me then I will not feed it any more because otherwise it may bite me again. The wise men have a hard task in front of them over the coming six months. – Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr Langen, the rapporteur, on his report on the adoption of the multiannual programme for the promotion of renewable energy sources in the Community, Altener II. A number of people have made critical comments about the nuclear programme in the Community. Fusion power is perhaps technically renewable energy, nevertheless this is not what we are talking about here. This is a report that originated with the Commission proposal in November 1997 which the last Parliament considered at first reading, in the Robles Piquer report, in February. Now with the Treaty of Amsterdam we have moved over to codecision and we are having a second reading here today. The major thrust of the report is the demand for the doubling of the amount of renewable energy to 12% by 2010. This is something we clearly support in the Socialist Group, but I am not entirely sure that commitment is accompanied either by the political resources – which is one of the reasons we are asking for the campaign to encourage and foster renewable energy – or, more importantly, by the financial resources. The amount that is being allocated is far too small in my view and does not add up in terms of achieving a doubling. We have EUR 80 million allocated: EUR 30 million for 1998-99 and EUR 50 million for 2000-2002. It seems to me, firstly, that the amount available is far too little and secondly, if we are expecting a doubling of the amount of renewable energy, there should be a sharp increase in the amount of money being made available over a period of time. In fact, even this may not be allocated given that Amendment No 5 to Article 1(3) (new), actually says that the amount of money might have to be reduced if it is inconsistent with the financial perspective for the period in question. I welcome Amendment No 6 to Article 2(e)(a) (new) about the need to encourage the export of renewable energy technologies from the European Union and to encourage the European Renewable Energies Export Council. In conclusion, a number of short points: renewable energies cannot be shoe-horned into the current thinking of energy suppliers, who are trained to see energy production as always being large scale and costing hundreds or thousands of millions of euros in terms of each project. Many will be small, community-based schemes which will be site-specific, whether using wind, waves, solar power, combined heat and power or even biomass. That means, if we are to encourage lots of small schemes, that we need even more money. Secondly, if we are serious about exports we should also pay some attention to renewable energy sources in which we in the European Union have a technological lead, which is not necessarily the case here. One of which I am aware of is ocean thermal energy conversion that uses the temperature difference between the cold bottom waters of the tropics and the warm surface waters. We have a lead in Europe but we are not encouraging that. If we want to export these technologies we need to make sure that the resources are available. – Mr President, our first report is from the Petitions Committee by the Earl of Stockton on the case of the Reverend Owen. It is unusual in that it is a report on the fate of a single individual within the European Union. Members may be interested to know that the Reverend Owen is with us today in the public gallery. – Mr President, as the first Member so far to actually refer to the Rules can I raise a point of order under Rule 137(1) which relates to explanations of vote. I requested from the services an explanation of vote on Mr Cappato's proposal for a suspension of the session. I would like to know why you have not given it to me and given me the opportunity of explaining that while I agree with Mr Duhamel that the building is as safe as is reasonable, it is as stupid and expensive as always to meet here. That is why I voted in favour of suspending the session. – Mr President, I am as disappointed as my colleagues at the response. It was always possible for the Swedish Presidency itself to put the item on the agenda. It seems to me to be another example of politicians being out of touch with ordinary people, who are well aware of the enormous support for such a tax. Although perhaps unfeasible, it enjoys enormous support, and I find the resistance of the Council and the Commission to discussion of this tax staggering. If it could be implemented it would end the evils of global speculation that destroy so many jobs, communities and families, while promoting a good in the form of large amounts of aid and assistance to the Third World. Perhaps the President-in-Office could respond to my concern and tell me why the Council is so afraid of commissioning a study itself or of encouraging the Commission to do so? At least we would have an answer if we could say that we had an independent study and it will not work. I suspect that would not come up with such a result but, nevertheless, can I ask you whether you will look into the possibility of commissioning a study or encouraging the Commission itself to study the Tobin-type taxes, so as to see whether they are feasible and under what conditions they could work? – Madam President, may I say that I fully endorse your speech earlier in which you said that one of our jobs is to provide the public with information about the work of the institutions. Can I invite you therefore under Rule 38 (Statements explaining Commission decisions) to ask the Commission at the end of today's agenda to come to this House and explain the decision that was taken yesterday to fine the French football authorities a derisory £650.00 for a clear breach of Community rules. It is very difficult for anyone to understand what that message was from the Commission, apart from to say that it is good news for ticket touts and bad news for football fans to suggest that people can actually get away with breaking the law providing they are prepared to throw a few coppers towards the European Commission later in the process. So, may I ask you to invite the Commission, at the end of today's proceedings, to come and explain that decision so that ordinary people can actually try and understand the thought processes which, I have to say, completely confound me. – Mr President, I apologise to my colleagues in this debate for not anticipating that the debate was going to be brought forward. I was expecting it to start at 4.30 p.m. I had the opportunity to visit Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan briefly with the Central Asian Delegation at the end of September and the beginning of October 2002. I have to say that all the signs are that there is a danger of Kazakhstan slipping into authoritarianism. There is increasing intimidation and persecution of the press. The case of Mr Duvanov, sentenced to three and a half years in jail is well known and has been mentioned. The case of Irina Petrushova with Respublika weekly, sentenced to one and a half years in jail is another example. And there is a series of new criminal cases. A new law on the creation of opposition parties requires 50 000 citizens' signatures before they can be registered. Many of our parties in the European Union would not be able to register that level of support! Of course, there is the increasing pressure on the opposition. We still have problems with regard to legislation, particularly the fact that the crime and the practice of torture still exist and there is no clear definition of what torture is. Clearly, we want a dialogue in Kazakhstan between the government and the opposition; we want them to respect international law. In the meantime, we ask the Council and Commission to raise these questions firmly at the next meeting between the Council, the Commission and the government of Kazakhstan. . – Mr President, the first point the committee would like to make is that current arrangements disadvantage EU providers of these services: software, data processing, and computer services, web hosting, web design and information. We would like to add educational services to that. They disadvantage people inside the EU because they currently pay VAT for the supply of these services whereas those outside the European Union do not. This is why we believe that this directive needs to come into force with some urgency, particularly those of us who believe that there will be a rapid rise in ecommerce. The Industry Committee adopted a number of proposals by thirty-nine votes to three. We asked for registration in a single Member State. We called for the European Commission to monitor to ensure that there is no distortion of the market and to report back to the Council and to Parliament. We asked them to report, in the meantime, on a number of aspects: ensuring equal treatment of companies, looking at the choice of location, harmonising of international regulations and the possibility of establishing a clearing system, as was suggested by the rapporteur. Another point we made, that was not made elsewhere, was that, as many may recall, Al Capone was gaoled not as a gangster but for tax evasion. We see an unfortunate boom in aspects of e-commerce, in the growth of pornography, paedophilia and race-hate material. The Industry Committee believes that registration for VAT will enable us to subject the companies concerned to the rigours of EU law on these matters. This in itself may make the directive worthwhile. – I am glad that the Commissioner has confirmed the principle of non-discrimination on the grounds of religion. I am concerned over the practice in some Member States. As she may be aware, in the United Kingdom there is a clergyman – the Reverend Raymond Owen – who has been refused permission to go to an industrial tribunal to resolve outstanding issues relating to his dismissal by the church authorities. This would not have been the case in various other Member States, or had he been a religious minister from a non-Christian organisation. This case seems to exemplify the discrimination that exists against Christian ministers of religion in certain Member States of the Union when they are in dispute with their ecclesiastical authorities. United Kingdom law fails to incorporate properly the Council Directive of 14 October 1991 – most notably Article 8 which notes that Member States are allowed to exclude certain limited cases of employment. However, the UK Employment Rights Act of 1996, in part 13, chapter 1, specifies particular types of employment that are excluded from the Act but makes no reference to the clergy, therefore implying that the clergy is covered by legislation, which is not in fact the case. I hope the Commissioner will agree to look in detail at this case and receive the Reverend Owen and representatives from his trade union so we can make a formal complaint. –Mr President, I thank Commissioner Solbes for his statement. I sometimes feel that Asia, ASEAN and ASEM are the Cinderellas of Europe's foreign relations, receiving far less attention than they deserve on issues of industrial economic, financial, political and security matters. I welcome the promise that we have here to change that situation. I am not sure about the proposal for exchanging politicians – who would we get in exchange for Mr Haider and Mr Le Pen? There are three main points I would like to make. Firstly, events in Seattle and Prague show that it is no longer possible for many of the key global issues to be negotiated behind closed doors by small groups isolated from daily life. I welcome the parallel ASEM People's Summit 2000 and the proposal in the compromise text that this should be institutionalised for future ASEM meetings. I also welcome the proposal for the re-establishment of the joint parliamentary meetings of MPs from the ASEM member countries. Secondly, like Mrs Maij-Weggen, I want to talk about Burma. I am very pleased that, while Burma is a member of ASEAN, it is not a member of ASEM and in the past ASEM has called for the restoration of democracy in that sad country. We continue to hope that the military regime in Burma will eventually recognise that the only way forward is by dialogue with Aung San Suu Kyi rather than by confrontation. We hope that the Member States will continue to monitor that. Thirdly, this summit is being held on the Korean peninsula in Seoul. We have seen a historic breakthrough as vital as the ones we have seen in the past in Northern Ireland and in the Middle East, with Kim Dae-jung and Kim Jong-il having the political courage to hold the first summit in this sadly divided peninsula. Yet we have seen recently in both Northern Ireland and the Middle East how fragile these peace initiatives can be. We urge the Commission, the Council and the ASEM member states, both from Asia and from Europe, to do what they can economically and politically to aid and assist this process further. Europe can play an important role as honest broker. – Mr President, I join my colleagues in congratulating Mr Alyssandrakis on his report on the Commission communication to the Council and Parliament on Europe and Space: Turning to a new chapter. This is not the first report that Mr Alyssandrakis has drawn up on the subject of space and, I suspect, not the last. The Socialist Group will be supporting the report. We believe that space has important civil and industrial applications. Europe cannot afford to be sidelined. Europe cannot afford to allow the US and the other space powers – Russia, China and Japan – to leave us behind. We need to develop further the technological basis of space activities, in particular launchers, to move eventually to European independence. On the way to European independence we may have to work with those trying to catch up with the US's enormous lead. We therefore welcome the statement in the report that space research is one of the priority themes for the Sixth Framework Programme for research and development. Europe, unless it gets an unequivocal agreement with the United States that it can have access on all occasions to the GSP system, will have to work with others inside and outside the European Union, in industry and government, to develop its own independent system. We can support the amendment from Mr Chichester to the effect that we can include military applications for peacekeeping purposes. At the same time we support the rapporteur's own amendment, Amendment No 5, which deplores the US withdrawal from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty and deplores the development of national missile defence, which we believe will trigger a new arms race in East Asia. To make our position absolutely clear, we are also willing, if Amendment No 1 is passed, to support the rapporteur's Amendment No 2, to the effect that we believe space should be used to create peace rather than conflict. We do not see these as contradictory but rather as establishing a limit beyond which we do not wish to go. I hope that in the vote tomorrow we achieve what we intend, as I have set it out this evening. – Mr President, I have no problem with what is in the Minutes – it is what is not in the Minutes that is a problem for me. In Wednesday's Minutes there is a list of Members who changed their vote. I notice that in yesterday's Minutes there is no such list, even though I am aware of at least two Members who changed their vote on the resolution on capital tax. Can you tell me when we will be told of these changes of vote, because obviously it is of interest to certain Members. I presume that addendum will be made in the next set of Minutes, and we will have an opportunity to comment at that time. – Mr President, as you will be aware, the relevant Rule states that there will be a debate and vote. I presume there will be a debate as well, as the Rule specifies. Mr President, I speak in support of my colleague, Mrs Junker, who has spoken on behalf of the Group. Haiti is the poorest country in the Americas; 80% of its population live below the poverty line. It has one of the lowest life expectancies, literacy rates and health indicators in a region which, as someone has already said, is itself rather poor. The political, social and economic crises have all worsened in the last four years. Half the population suffers from malnutrition; there is difficult access to clean water and where traditional exports have collapsed, drug trafficking and corruption are flourishing. Worse, the recently-formed Haitian National Police has been able to enforce the rule of law and has been severely criticised by human rights groups for its own abuse of protesters protesting against President Aristide's rule and for failing to protect them from machete and gun-wielding government-supporting militias. We condemn all the violence and political assassinations. We call upon the Haitian Government, the opposition and civil society to engage in a constructive dialogue, possibly in the framework of a national conference to pave the way for free and fair legislative elections. We call on the Council and Commission to use all political and diplomatic means to encourage the Haitian authorities, opposition parties and civil society to facilitate this dialogue. In the meantime, we ask for the restoration of the United Nations mission working with the Haitian police, the disbandment of the so-called special brigades – as suggested by the UN Special Envoy – and the disarming of the militias. That would be the first step on what may be a possible path to a solution. – Madam President, there are certain quaint eccentricities in the operation of the building and in its catering, for instance, coffee not being served during sessions, no white wine available by the glass, the fact that the pizzas taste like cardboard and the fact that the newspaper shop is about as far away from the entrance where Members come in as it is possible to be. Nevertheless those are things we can deal with. The design of the building is not entirely to my taste. The designer clearly must have had Breughel’s Tower of Babel in mind. But I accept that you, Mr Priestley and the people of Strasbourg have made enormous efforts to try and cope with these. I agree with Mr Andrews that inevitably there were some teething problems. The biggest remaining problem is the lifts, which seem to have a mind of their own. If you run very fast – which does not help the handicapped – you might get in before someone inside it closes the door in your face because they are fed up with stopping on every floor. Nevertheless, the building is a comparatively good one. It is cheap compared to the House of Commons in London, where nearly FRF 1 million has been spent on a desk. My main complaint is not about the treatment of Members but about the treatment of staff. It seems to me that whoever has been making these decisions has treated the staff, in some cases, rather shabbily. Certainly the committee staff who work with me now have to fit three people, three desks and chairs, three telephones and three sets of papers into a room that used to be used by one Member in IPE I or IPE II. This is not an effective way of making sure that this institution works properly and effectively. The last point I would make is that in many cases we have been blaming the building when it is the politicians we should be blaming. The building is here because of decisions made at the Edinburgh Council by Mr Major, who institutionalised our constant peregrinations between Brussels and Strasbourg – beautiful as this city is – to the detriment of our efficiency as an institution that is meant to be working on behalf of the people of the European Union. () – Mr President, following up the point that Mr Adam made, I presume you will report back at the beginning of the mini-session on the result and, of course, if there is a proposal for the establishment of a temporary committee this House will have to vote on it. – Mr President, it is only right and proper that the European Parliament puts on record its concerns with respect to the human rights situation in China. There have been far too many cases for us to ignore with respect to religious intolerance, discrimination against ethnic minority groups and continued use of the death penalty. We also have concerns about the political freedoms in Hong Kong and in the future in Macao. It is right that we put pressure on China to improve its record. In the EU it is important that we continue that pressure. However, I have two concerns. Firstly, we must be careful not to unnecessarily endanger China's accession to the WTO because WTO membership in the medium term would do more to transform China's economy and China's human rights situation than anything else. Opening up China and bringing it into the global economy must have positive consequences with respect to human rights. Many in China's ruling circles know and welcome this. We must be careful not to throw out the baby with the bath water, in acting to try to get the best and end up siding with the interests of the worst. Secondly, we must continue to criticise China. I will continue to do so where necessary, but I hope we will not see an over-emphasis on China at the expense of other regimes in the world, whose records are as bad, if not worse. This only gives China an excuse to ignore our demands. Mr President, I would like to make clear on behalf of the PSE Group that we will be opposing all of the amendments by the GUE/NGL Group and the Verts/ALE Group. Nevertheless we find less than credible the much delayed decision by the Venezuelan National Electoral Council to reject 1.2 million out of 3 million signatures on the recall referendum; two in five signatures have actually been declared invalid. We understand the wave of protest and disturbances in Venezuela in the wake of that decision. Nevertheless, we reject unconditionally the use of violence and deeply deplore the loss of human lives. We express our sympathy with the victims of that violence. We call on the National Electoral Commission to accept and adopt forthwith the recommendations of the Organisation of American States Observation Mission and the Carter Centre in relation to their preliminary report. We endorse the Irish presidency's statements of 23 February and 2 March, and ask the Commission to use its considerable political weight in that country to ensure that the agreements made on the basis of democratic coordination are actually kept. –  Mr President, may I start by saying that I would like to thank Commissioner Palacio very much for her clear, adequate and, at the same time, very firm response. Many thanks for this. This also means that, in any case, I have a great deal of respect for the briefing note which she sent on 10 January but also for the action points which she announced today. The Erika disaster shows that when sound traffic and transport regulations are lacking at international and European level, nature and the environment come off second-best. The damage suffered, also in ecological terms, cannot be expressed in money. Hence also this joint debate involving transport and environmental management Members.  During the Christmas break, when the Dutch media received attention for the Erika disaster, I had a look, just out of interest, on the Internet to see what arrangements were, in fact, already in place for the purpose of taking relevant measures, especially after Premier Jospin had said that Europe should do more. What I learned is that, actually, there is sufficient legislation in place but the problem is the lack of supervision. Could I highlight a few points which have also been touched upon by the Commissioner?  First of all, the port-state control, according to which 25% of all ships require inspection. I think that this 25% should not only be enforced but that it should also be ensured that more inspections take place. So this 25% should be increased. Furthermore, if a ship is no longer seaworthy, not only should the facts be examined, but a legal system should be introduced which states or recommends that the vessel should no longer be used. But this is not in place. Mr President, I would welcome some action in this area. Finally, as far as the technical requirements for ships are concerned, some Members have already mentioned just now that, since 1999 in the United States, ships should in any case be double-hulled. In my opinion, we should look further into this point, and I also think that the Marpol Treaty, which comes into effect in 2001, should be looked at very closely.  Mr President, I would like to take a brief, critical look at the accession negotiations with Malta and would like to express my gratitude to, and admiration for, the many NGOs that have at least rolled up their sleeves in order to save animals. – Mr President, the human rights situation in Burma continues to deteriorate under the not-so-gentle control of the military junta. The plight of Aung San Suu Kyi continues to worsen. She has not been allowed to travel since she was placed under house arrest on 21 September when she attempted to travel to Mandalay. She apparently has no access to a telephone and no visitors. There are even rumours that she has been handcuffed in her own house. The plight of the rest of the members of the National League for Democracy is hardly any better. Large numbers are under arrest or are being harassed, and attempts have been made to close down their offices in Burma. The junta has said that it is their intention to try and smash the party as a whole. But it not just Aung San Suu Kyi, it is not just the military, it is not just the NLD – there are almost 3 000 political prisoners who are suffering from hard labour and torture. There are forced relocations of populations of ethnic minorities and there is forced labour. The ILO has been in and tried to look at the situation and see if constructive engagement led to any improvement. As we know, the ILO is meeting today. It is likely to recommend sanctions because there has been no improvement. I am beginning to get thoroughly fed up with making this speech – I have made it on three or four occasions now to the Council and the Commission – but the situation is worsening, so what are you going to do? Council and Commission, it is now finally time to act. You must recognise that we are making no progress whatsoever with the current approach. Please look at imposing sanctions. Make it absolutely clear that we are not going to attend the meeting in Laos in the presence of the Burmese military junta because that will be intolerable and the message will be that they can get away with it. – Mr President, firstly, can I congratulate the rapporteur and the Chairman of the Committee on Fisheries on his report on the revision of the regulations on the conservation of fishery resources and technical measures for the protection of juvenile marine organisms. This report, whose name probably causes more confusion than clarity amongst those people who have not been following, the subject is in fact a number of separate amendments updating the original regulation. Firstly, with regard to separator trawls or nets with sorting grids used in shrimp fisheries; secondly, the revision of minimum sizes for a number of bivalve molluscs and crustaceans; and thirdly, with respect to the establishment of a closed area for fishing for sand eels off the north-east coast of England and the east coast of Scotland. It is on the last proposal that I primarily wish to speak. This is a very good example of the eco-system approach to fisheries: taking action for environmental reasons beyond those applying strictly for fish stock levels. In 1998, a report by the Working Group on Eco-System Effects of Fishing Activities of the International Council for Exploration of the Seas identified for the first time that sea birds, specifically the kittiwake, which has been experiencing low breeding success over recent years, were in fact in competition with the industrial fleet, primarily Danish operators fishing for sand eels off the East coast of Scotland and England. The United Kingdom requested the Commission to submit an appropriate proposal in the light of that report and the United Kingdom made initial approaches to the Danish government to encourage their support for the initiative. It was suggested that a closed season for sand eel fishing should be introduced between April and August when the breeding birds were most dependent on sand eels for food. The ICES subsequently looked at the science again and suggested a closed area stretching from mid-Northumberland northwards to include the Grampian coast. This closed area is the one proposed by the Commission in December as part of the annual TAC Regulation and adopted by the Council. These measures have, I understand, already been accepted in principle by the key parties involved. I therefore hope the Council will be able, after this debate, to reach a speedy agreement. It is important for the conservation of sea birds. It is important for us to demonstrate our concern in this area. – Madam President, I thank the Commission and Commissioner Kinnock for being available to make this statement following my request earlier in the week. While I welcome the fact they are here to make the statement, I am disappointed in its content. I am told I do not like football: I am a Manchester City season-ticket holder. I am told that the Commissioner has similar problems with a rumoured enthusiasm for Cardiff City which may explain some of the difficulties we both face. Nevertheless, I agree that the French Football Federation put on a wonderful feast of football. The French ‘rainbow team’ did much to confound the xenophobics and racists who, like Mr Le Pen and our unlamented former colleague Mr Mègret, believe that to be French is to be white. Yet importantly, there clearly was a breach of competition rules on a massive scale. Commissioner Kinnock talked about 180, 000 tickets being made available to football fans across Europe. That was after 600, 000 tickets were sold on a discriminatory basis. The organising committee deliberately and provocatively ignored early on the requirement that all citizens of the European Union be treated equally, and clearly breached Article 82 of the Treaty. In doing so, they massively increased their profits, selling tickets in corporate blocks as small as one. You could not buy a ticket by telephoning and paying FF500, but for FF5, 000 you could get the same ticket and the equivalent of a school dinner – I have had corporate hospitality before. If Commissioner Kinnock is asking me if I believe that the European Commission could actually help grassroots football better than the multinational corporations who actually rely on the profits, I would actually vote for the European Commission. It may not be a very popular move but I have seen very little evidence of the people who are making multi-millions of pounds out of football putting it back into football. They are putting it into franchising and other things. This also endangered the security of thousands of football fans. It turned tens of thousands of French men and women into amateur ticket touts. If they bought their allocation of four tickets each for a major match and sold them on the black market, they had enough money for two of them to take a two-week holiday in Australia. It was very difficult to imagine that French men and women would not pick up tickets and sell them in that way and clearly that was happening. In these circumstances, therefore, does the Commissioner not agree that football fans will think it is absolutely ludicrous, the EUR 1000 fine – which was about the black-market price for a ticket for England-Argentina – that ticket touts will think that this is good news and that genuine football fans will be disappointed? Can he not confirm that we could have fined the French football authorities something between FF 100m and FF 200m, which was something like 10 % of the extra profits they made? Does he not believe that the excuse that the organising federation no longer exists is actually a facile one when clearly it is the responsibility of the French Football Federation? Does he not agree that the message to the organisers of Europe 2000, to the organisers of Europe 2004 and the possible organisers of the Mondiale 2006, whether in Germany or the United Kingdom, is that they can ignore the rules, maximise profits and in the end, all it costs them is the small change? Should the Commission be treating football differently from any other multi-billion pound industrial operation? It seems to me that if this had been in the telecommunications sector or elsewhere, the notion that we would have come back with a symbolic fine in circumstances where people had increased their profits by £200m or £300m would have been as ludicrous as the symbolic fine appears to football fans. – Mr President, we have a long catalogue of action by the Council and the Commission to deal with the problem of counterfeiting of the euro. According to a report in the Financial Times on 22 May, Europol apparently thinks that these measures are still inadequate. One of the particular concerns is the very high value of the 500-euro note, which is in danger of making the euro the currency of choice for counterfeiters and money launderers, because it is substantially higher in value than any other note in regular circulation in the United States, Japan or the United Kingdom. Has the Council not considered the possibility of delaying the issuing of the 500-euro note because, with the introduction of the euro, there will be a particularly dangerous window of opportunity for counterfeiters potentially to have a field day, as millions of people around the world will never have seen these notes before. Substantial counterfeiting will engender the severe risk of global damage to the whole credibility of, and confidence in, the euro. Mr President, on a point of order, it was suggested by both Mrs Lambert and more indirectly by Mr Parish that I misled the House when I claimed that the PPE-DE, ELDR and Verts/ALE Groups had tried to block the De Rossa report from appearing on the agenda. While I accept Mrs Lambert's personal enthusiasm for this report and the fact that she proposed that it be drawn up, my criticism was of her Group's attitude and that of the other Groups. The matter was raised by the Chairman of the Committee on Petitions at a meeting of the Conference of Committee Chairs some time last autumn. They were opposed to the Petitions Committee using the Rules of Procedure to produce this report. The matter was referred to the meeting of the Chairs of the Political Groups, where initially the only vote in favour of the report was that of Mr Barón Crespo from the PSE Group. It took considerable heavy lobbying of the other Groups to persuade their chairmen to change their minds and allow this report to be produced on the important subject we have in front of us today. – Mr President, I have Mr Nicholson's problem in an even more acute form. I turned up for my debate on ASEM III at the time indicated to find that the whole debate had taken place. I do not know what the problem is. I think it is that one or two Members are absent which then brings the debate forward which means that more and more people arrive after the debate. I do not know how we can solve this problem but my apologies to the House for not being present when I should have been. I do not know how we can tackle this problem in the future. – Mr President, may I congratulate Mr Purvis on his report on the future of the biotechnology industry. As Mr Purvis makes clear, it is a vital industry for the future of the European Union. It will provide jobs and opportunities for innovation with new products and new processes in such fields as agriculture, medicine and pharmaceuticals. In the Fifth Framework Programme we are already putting EUR 2 billion into the biotechnology industry and I hope that in the Sixth Framework Programme that will increase. But despite all that we are behind the United States, which dominates the biotechnology market in terms of revenue, R and D expenditure and even number of employees. It is between three and four times bigger than the industry in the European Union. If we are going to benefit from the biotechnology industry, we need to nurture the industry. We need to invest through the Sixth Framework Programme and other R and D funds. Balanced regulation is important. It is clear there has been a public loss of confidence in science and technology, scientists and engineers. The BSE and foot-and-mouth crises indicate a lack of confidence. It is also clear that there is an ethical dimension. We need public accountability and clear guidelines that command public support. In terms of research and genetic manipulation, many of us would support somatic cell repair but might have doubts about somatic cell enhancement or germ cell repair and certainly there will be grave concerns about germ-cell enhancement. It is not acceptable for insurance companies to refuse cover on the basis of genetic profiling or for manufacturing companies to recruit those with a low propensity to cancer for dirty jobs. We need to strike a balance between introducing regulations that will allow the biotechnology industry to thrive in the future and maintaining public confidence. Otherwise public concerns may well drive economic activity across the Atlantic. Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group. We support the joint resolution, but, at the same time, I would endorse Mr Casaca's comments that we should not be widening this resolution outside of its original terms. Therefore, we will not support the two amendments by the Liberals and the Greens. Of course the PSE Group condemns the cowardly 'twin towers' bombings of the Gateway of India and of the Zaveri Bazaar in Mumbai on 25 August 2003 that killed and injured so many people. Under no circumstances can any terrorist attack that targets civilians, resulting in the loss of innocent lives, be accepted by the international community. These terrorist bombs were clearly designed to cause maximum civilian causalities, to destabilise Indian society and weaken the Indian economy. Yet members of both the Hindu and Muslim communities in India died in the attack and worked together in the rescue efforts. We have seen a degree of restraint that we have to welcome. At the same time, we welcome the statement by the Pakistani Foreign Minister expressing sympathy with the victims and their families. We urge the Commission, the Council and this Parliament to do all they can to ensure that the current  between India and Pakistan is not damaged by these incidents. Mr President, on behalf of the PSE Group, I should like to point out that we will be supporting the joint resolution on Zimbabwe. The Zanu-PF regime is an appalling example of the repression of an impoverished and starving people. Morgan Tsvangirai – the leader of the opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change – has been put on trial under spurious charges of treason. The economic situation in that country has sharply worsened, with the GDP falling 40% over the last 4 years, and with inflation already at 600% and forecast to reach 1000% before the end of 2004. There is 70% unemployment and over 6 million people are in need of food aid. There have already been some reports of children dying from malnutrition, particularly in the Bulawayo area. There has been a disastrous land reform programme – which no reference to the evils of colonialism can possibly justify – that has dismantled commercial agriculture without replacing it with any other way of producing food efficiently and effectively. The  – Zimbabwe's only independent daily newspaper – is still closed, despite the courts ordering its reopening, and now the news editor and chief reporter of the  have been arrested under the Access to Information and Protection of Privacy Act. What we want is a renewal of the sanctions against Zimbabwe, which are up for renewal by the EU on 20 February 2004. Equally, we want a further widening and strengthening of sanctions against the regime, with the introduction of additional measures to make international action against the regime more effective, in particular the stringent enforcement of the visa ban. There will be a meeting of the EU-African Union Foreign Ministerial Troika on 1 April, and we hope that the EU will put it high on the agenda. We welcome the intervention by Archbishop Desmond Tutu following the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in Nigeria, but would call on other African leaders to equally intervene and put pressure on Mugabe to take action. We need the donor community to make available food aid that can be distributed through non-governmental channels; and we want the EU Member States on the UN Security Council to galvanise the international community into taking coordinated and effective action against this intolerable regime. Mr President, I had the honour to be a part of the delegation to Pakistan's visit to the Pakistani side of the line of control in Kashmir in December. We had the opportunity during that delegation meeting to meet with President Musharraf, and I was much impressed by his commitment to pursuing a programme of peace and reconciliation with India. It looks, for the first time, as though both sides are prepared to think the previously unthinkable and find a resolution, driven by the economic impact on their two economies of a continuing conflict; a conflict that has dogged the world for the last 50 years. Nevertheless, there are still enormous problems in Pakistan regarding human rights, democracy and nuclear proliferation. Colleagues have told us about the treatment of Christian and Ahmadi religious minorities, the situation of women, the deeply flawed election result that Mr Cushnahan oversaw, and the jailing of members of the opposition like Javed Hashmi. I would therefore concur with my colleagues on those concerns. Last year Mr Tannock and I added to our resolution on North Korea the fact that Pakistan had supplied blueprints for a highly enriched uranium technology programme to North Korea for the production of nuclear weapons. At the time, we were roundly attacked by the Pakistani Government and when I raised the issue with Foreign Minister Kasuri during the December meeting I was told that the North Koreans needed no help – they were well advanced with nuclear weapon technology, including miniaturisation. Whether or not they needed help, it is now clear that it was provided. Now new questions are arising about the nuclear test of 30 May 1998 in Baluchistan, which looks as if it could have been a joint test of a plutonium weapon between Pakistan and North Korea. When I raised the issue with the Pakistani Ambassador, who came to see me this week, he said that they were cooperating with the United States. That is not good enough: we in the European Union want cooperation and to be kept in the loop as well. However, despite that, I will support this third-generation cooperation agreement. We will be paying close attention to further progress on human rights in Pakistan. – Mr President, I have some sympathy with Mr Sacrédeus. I am opposed to the death penalty. It needs to be abolished throughout the world, save possibly in time of war. I myself in this House appealed to President Fontaine last year to write to the US federal authorities to protest against the death penalty for the right-wing terrorist Timothy McVeigh. Yet I confess I voted against placing this issue on the agenda. I am not convinced of its urgency in the light of the fact that in South Korea the government of Kim Dae-jung has not allowed any death sentences to be carried out since he took office in February 1998. In Taiwan, as the resolution itself states, there has been a recent reform in the penal code abolishing the mandatory death penalty for various violent crimes, while the Minister of Justice has stated that this is the first step towards abolishing capital punishment within the next three years. In Japan there has been a Diet Members' League for the Abolition of the Death Penalty since 1993. In one sense I am almost amused that the resolution welcomes its creation nine years on. It almost warrants an entry in the Guinness Book of Records as one of the most belated welcomes in history, and I confidently expect in the future to hear in one of our resolutions that Mafeking has been relieved. The League for the Abolition of the Death Penalty has 113 members from all parties in both Houses in Japan, representing almost one sixth of MPs. Last year, only two death sentences were carried out and the government has announced that it will promote a new law that will create the possibility for judges to substitute life without parole for the death penalty for capital crimes. Nevertheless, now that the matter is on the agenda, we will vote in favour of the resolution, of course, but maybe in future we can focus on those countries around the world where the carrying out of death sentences is virtually or actually a daily event. – Madam President, I should like to express the Socialist Group's deep concern about the growing phenomenon of fundamentalist terrorism, not only in India but all around the world. I express our concern about the threat this poses to democratic societies and reaffirm that acts of terrorism anywhere in the world threaten peace and stability, but no more so than in India and Pakistan at the moment. Both of these possess nuclear weapons and one of them at least has not disavowed first use of those weapons. We support India's demands for Pakistan to contribute to a full investigation into the attacks on the Kashmiri State Assembly and the Indian Parliament. But we urge both sides to do all they can to avoid slipping into the prospect of war. That will require willingness and leadership on behalf of both India and Pakistan, and President Musharraf in particular. The only way forward is through negotiations. We hope that India and Pakistan, with the support of the European Parliament, can take that road rather than the much more dangerous road for themselves and the rest of the world. – Mr President, I want to make one fundamental point on the Cunha report. I have some sympathy with the political position that our nationalist colleagues put forward this morning with respect to paragraph 6, but in terms of dealing with it they took the wrong approach. It is not appropriate and we voted not to send the report back to committee. Nor do we support the notion that paragraph 6 is inadmissible. The best approach is to vote on the report and to follow the political logic. I have tabled an amendment which substitutes "temporary removal of quotas" for the suggestion in paragraph 6 that it should be "permanent" if Member States do not comply with the regime. If that amendment or anything similar is carried we will be supporting the report. If it is not, then we will be opposing it. Such an amendment will put pressure on governments to obey the law without condemning the principle of relative stability which, as we are all so well aware, has been the basis of the common fisheries policy since 1983. This is the best approach, the one we are going to follow, and we hope that the other political groups will allow the report to go through with the necessary amendments. – I thank the Commissioner for his reply to my question. But is Commissioner Vitorino aware, not only of Mr Haider's and the Freedom Party's words, but also of their deeds? Mr Haider has actually been in government in the southern province of Carinthia where he has led a racist and xenophobic campaign against the Slovene-speaking minority in that region who are Austrian citizens, where he has attempted to abolish dual language education and where there has been clear discrimination against the Roma and immigrant communities. Could the Commissioner answer two questions. Firstly he talked about verification. Can he tell us how that verification will take place and who will do it? Secondly, does he not agree that were the current government, at a national level, to pursue the kind of policies that Mr Haider and the Freedom Party have pursued at regional level, then there clearly would be a breach of Article 6(1) of the Treaty with regard to fundamental freedom and human rights and it would be incumbent upon the Commission to take the necessary action? We are not talking about words here. We are talking about deeds by the Freedom Party and Mr Haider. – Madam President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and I very much welcome the outcome of conciliation on the subject, but I think we have several causes for complaint as well. Four subjects were covered by the original physical agents directive, noise was one, but the original 1986 directive on noise was due for revision in 1991. Here we are almost at the end of 2002 before we finally have a revised text. Vibration was another subject but it took Council eight years to reach a common position on vibration, and, as we have heard from the Commissioner, we still have the aspects concerning fields and waves and optical radiation to be dealt with. Progress is painfully slow. Yet, all around us in this high-tech era we are increasingly being bombarded by fields and waves from wireless local access networks, from blue tooth devices, from class I lasers and the like. I hope we will see a renewed sense of urgency on the part of Council. The directive is to be welcomed. It will bring about direct improvements. Workers will be exposed less to noise at work. Then their representatives will play a part in risk assessment in the choice of hearing protectors. Our preventative audio-metric testing will be made available under certain circumstances. All of these things and many others are to be welcomed. For the music and entertainment sector, I think we have established a very good approach. Member States will, as we have heard, draw up a code of conduct in consultation with the social partners and will give practical guidelines on how employers and employees can meet their obligations in that sector. The approach has been very much welcomed by the Musicians Union of Great Britain who acted to coordinate the work of musicians' unions across the European Union. In the interests of time, I will make just one other point. Many voices were raised in conciliation about the importance of business impact assessment on proposals of this sort – rigorous impact assessment. I will pose the question here that I posed in Committee: what value should we place upon whether a person in their 40s or 50s can actually hear and communicate with their infant grandchildren? Because that is the part of the hearing spectrum industrial hearing loss often destroys. So, let us have a cost-benefit assessment by all means, but let us take all of the costs and all of the benefits into account, not just narrow financial ones. – Mr President, our ongoing work on working time goes back to the 1993 Directive, which excluded approximately six million workers in total, some 5 million of whom were working in the various transport sectors. Last year's overhaul of the directive brought all rail workers, non-mobile workers in the other transport sectors, offshore workers and doctors in training under the directive's scope. Furthermore, separate agreements have been reached in the maritime and aviation sectors. This proposal on road transport thus seeks to close one of the last remaining gaps, but even so it will not cover all drivers. As it stands, it will only apply to workers covered by Regulation No 3820/85 and will therefore leave out a number of categories of workers, including workers driving vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes, regular urban transport drivers, taxi drivers and drivers of vehicles carrying no more than nine passengers. Amendment No 5, from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, seeks an early revision of the regulation in order to include these workers. Even more serious, however, is the possibility left open in the common position, namely that the self-employed might be permanently excluded from this directive. The original 1993 directive applies to employees, but this proposal has two legal bases: Article 137 covers occupational health and safety, while Article 71 covers operational safety. It therefore applies to the self-employed, and rightly so. We cannot exclude the self-employed. If it is dangerous to a driver's health and safety, and to road safety more generally, for an employed driver to work long hours, is it not just as dangerous for a self-employed worker? The answer to that, of course, is that it must be. When a lorry fills your rear-view mirror, are you going to wonder whether that driver is employed and rested, or self-employed and potentially tired and dangerous? So inclusion of all drivers is important, both on occupational health and safety grounds and on operational safety grounds. But there is also a third important element: that of ensuring fair competition between the various modes of transport. The rail sector is currently covered by the 1993 directive, but road is not covered by anything approaching a similar regime. If we are serious about promoting a transfer of freight traffic from road to rail, with all of the environmental benefits that this can bring, then this too is a very important consideration. My proposed compromise on this point is the same as the Commission's revised opinion following our first reading. In Amendment No 4, I propose an extra three-year transition for the self-employed, and then their automatic inclusion. However, even this poses difficulties. Even a temporary exclusion might open up the possibility of imaginative new forms of false self-employment and of collective arrangements being dismantled by unscrupulous employers. That is why the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has also proposed a tighter definition of what a self-employed driver actually is in Amendment No 10. Those not meeting the criteria listed therein would be subject to the same rights and obligations under the directive as employees. These are some of the important points in the proposal, but others include the definitions of working time and stand-by duty. The common position is so vague on these issues that there is little point in trying to limit working time on that basis. We have, therefore, proposed a return to the definition in the Commission's revised opinion in Amendment No 6. In Amendment No 15 we propose that the reference period for calculating the average 48-hour week be limited to arrangements set in place as a result of collective agreements. I proposed to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs that a driver should receive prior notice of commencement of a period of availability 24 hours in advance. That did not get the support I would have liked in committee, and I would therefore recommend to the House that the compromise proposed by Mrs Lynne in Amendment No 24 of 12 hours' prior notice should be supported. In Amendment No 14 I propose that night work be limited to 8 hours with a possible temporary extension to 10 hours, so long as the 8-hour average is achieved over a reference period to be agreed after consultation with the social partners. The human being is not a nocturnal animal and research demonstrates that the risks of accidents to health and safety are highest as a result of night work. Therefore, that is also an important point. In conclusion, the key element is that of the inclusion of the self-employed. I hope transport ministers will be persuaded to agree to it, otherwise this whole package might be rejected. They would be to blame if that were to occur, and I hope we can work together to make sure that we put this piece of the jigsaw puzzle in place as soon as possible. – Mr President, right at the outset I would like to say to Mr Helmer and others that people on this side of the House are not in the business of shackling or hampering the decision-making capabilities of businesses. What we would like to do is to encourage them to look after their investors. But when I talk about investors I am not just talking about shareholders. I also mean the thousand of workers in companies like Michelin who invested their time, energy, knowledge, skills, their hopes and aspirations, and those of their families, in the company they have worked for for many years. I mean the investment of the communities that underpin and sustain them. I mean, as well, all of us here and out there in the rest of the European Union as taxpayers. Public money, directly or indirectly, is involved in these enterprises; regional, national and European money and, as Mr Nobilia said a short while ago, it should not come without strings attached. A good company will look after its workforce. It will work in partnership with its workforce and it will encourage involvement, partnership and innovation. A good company will not treat its workforce or the community housing it as factors of production to be disposed of lightly in a global game of profit and loss. We in this House have become accustomed to the idea of externalities in environmental policy, with the bill for the costs of dirty practices being picked up not by the enterprise in question, but by society more broadly. Perhaps we need to think in similar terms when it comes to the social responsibilities of enterprises like Michelin. Otherwise the danger is that the main burden will only be upon the shareholders. We clearly have an imbalance within the European Union. On the one hand, considerable freedom for companies to restructure and move but very few rights for the workers involved. Even where we have rights in European legislation, rights for example to be consulted well in advance about decisions on collective redundancies or other major changes affecting livelihoods, the law is not being properly observed or applied. We need to revisit that. We have a number of outstanding issues to tackle at European level. We need to review and improve the law on individual and collective dismissals and on works councils. We need a general framework on information and consultation and we also need a review of the law on transfers, mergers and take-overs – not involved here but in the banking and insurance sector for example. The 12% rise in the share value of Michelin in the days following the announcement shows what a cynical and deliberate manipulation of the stock market was involved here. I find that totally reprehensible and I hope all right-thinking people in this House will feel the same. Finally, on a point of order, genuinely a point of order. Mr President, I would draw this to your attention. I signed a resolution, a compromise text, along with others, two days ago. That resolution contained in the final paragraph a reference to Michelin. The resolution which has now been circulated to be voted upon tomorrow no longer contains that reference. Someone in the sessional services has removed it without any reference back to those of us who signed it. That is a very serious matter indeed and I hope you will investigate it fully and report back to this House. – Mr President, many congratulations to the rapporteur. She has produced a very well-balanced report. It proposes sensible amendments which will not impose unreasonable burdens on firms, but which will improve the directive and reduce the risk of hearing loss resulting from exposure to noise at work. That is what this proposal is all about. Too many workers within the European Union continue to be at risk of hearing loss due to exposure to noise at work. Mrs Thorning-Schmidt has shown herself to be reasonable and willing to listen to reasonable and reasoned argument and evidence. She did, after all, withdraw many of her initial amendments, tabling new ones which move closer to, or back to, the common position on a number of elements including key action and exposure limit values. But others in this House are straining to carve a new and retrograde path in the social field. For the first time in conciliation in the social field we are seeing moves, particularly on the right and centre groupings of the House, to weaken significantly common positions established in the Social Affairs Council, and even, at times, to exclude significant sectors of activity from the legislation altogether. We have seen this in relation to this proposal on noise and the parallel proposal on vibration. Compromise Amendment No 23 on the music and entertainment sectors is a response to such a danger. Do not get me wrong: it might conceivably be necessary to weaken the common position when new information or evidence previously overlooked comes to light, but in my view that has not been the case in the examples I mention. We have instead seen something tantamount to a panic response to concentrated, manipulative lobbying and adverse media coverage fed by deliberate disinformation and misinformation. These developments are to be deplored. At least two factors seem to be at work. Firstly, lobby groups have woken up to the pressure points in the codecision procedure. They know how to apply political pressure, much of it far from evidence-based, on Parliament. They think we are the weakest link, and the signal we are sending them is that they are absolutely correct. Secondly, too many Members of this House delight in issuing press releases seeking to trivialise legislation that is entirely necessary, justified and proportionate. They will not let facts get in the way of seeing their own name in print and it is not hard to see why so many ill-informed articles have appeared concerning this proposal. They have been fed by grossly misleading or totally factually incorrect press releases and briefings from Members of this House. I hope that we can all grow up quickly and bring a little more dignity and integrity to our role as co-legislator. My own father finds it difficult to converse with my infant son because of industrially-induced hearing loss. That seems to me a very good reason to promote sensible legislation like this. – I would like to congratulate Mrs Van Lancker on producing an excellent report. I have heard from some quarters that having read the report, they agree with the diagnosis but not with the prescription. I take the view that unless we follow this prescription then the prognosis is not good for the stated aim of the social agenda, which is to make sure that social policy has a full and equal place alongside employment and economic policy. This is the prescription we need to follow. For the Socialist Group there are many very important points in this report. For us the open coordination method is very important. We want to see it strengthened in relation to employment. We want to see it also applied to social exclusion and social protection. I am glad to hear what Nicole Perry had to say to us today in that respect. Open coordination seems to be regarded by many as a soft option and I have no doubt that is why it is being supported in certain quarters. It cannot be a soft option. We will insist at every possible opportunity that it has to entail indicators and benchmarks and proper peer-group review and that there should be a part for Parliament in that procedure. We also support social dialogue but we insist that the Commission should manage that procedure properly and that where negotiations fail we should have an expeditious introduction of legislation where necessary. Paragraph 14 lists a number of points we think are important. I cannot go into them all in the time available but let me stress for us the importance of those paragraphs relating to the need to update the framework of legislation relating to restructuring. Again I was pleased to hear what Nicole Perry has said today. I have not heard similarly encouraging things so far from the Commission in relation to, for example, the need to update the European Works Council Directive, or relating to collective redundancies and transfers. We also, of course, place considerable emphasis upon the general framework relating to information and consultation to make sure that industrial change is managed with social responsibility. – Mr President, I would like to draw attention to a number of budget lines that are dealt with in the Committee on Employment. First of all the three lines dealing with social dialogue – B3-4002, B3-4003 and B3-4310. The last one deals with the Trade Union Technical Bureau for Health and Safety. We are looking to increase the amounts on each of these lines, largely because of enlargement. It is very important that we get the basic building blocks of social dialogue in place in the applicant countries and we need to begin to channel resources in that direction. Secondly, I should like to mention B3-4314. This concerns health and safety improvements in small- and medium-sized enterprises. We are looking to renew this line once again. I very much hope that following the work we have done on the new European Health and Safety strategy here in Parliament – a report will shortly be appearing in my own name – on a proposal from the Commission for a multi-annual programme for high levels of health and safety in SMEs. I hope that will come forward in the coming year and give us a permanent legal base. My final point concerns B3-4106. This is a proposal for a new budget line in the names of Mr Howitt and Mr Andersson, although it was endorsed by the Committee on Employment as well. It seeks to give a solid base for support to social NGOs. It is very important that we do this to underpin civil dialogue. – I would like to support the rapporteur’s recommendation that we defer the vote. It is a difficult week with lower attendance in the plenary. Some critical amendments in this report will require, of course, 314 votes. We have already had one question asked in the House concerning a point of controversy that arose only last night and which might well, because of confusion, jeopardise an important amendment. In the light of that it would be sensible to take time until Strasbourg. The clock is still ticking with Council, we have time to take it there. We can be sure we will have the necessary number of Members present and we can make sure that any further confusion is eliminated by the time of the final vote. – Mr President, I welcome the Lisbon conclusions. In fact, seen from the perspective of employment and social policy and against the long procession of summits which preceded it, Lisbon stands out along with Luxembourg in terms of the potential it offers us. I stress the word "potential" because, as others have said, we now need to look at the follow-up. Partly that follow-up is institutional. We will be looking very carefully, for example, at how the broad economic guidelines will be prepared, at just how successful the input of the Social Affairs and Employment Council will be in emphasising the need for employment and social cohesion when it formulates the broad economic guidelines. Also, we are told that each spring the European Council will consider an overall report to be produced by the Commission that will deal with structural indicators to be agreed. We wonder who will agree those structural indicators and just how strong the synthesis report to be produced by the Commission will be. What will the role of the Commission and this institution be? Will it, in fact, be largely intergovernmental? If so, I think we will be disappointed. But we are not just concerned about the institutional follow-up. We are also concerned about the substance. What proposals, for example, will the Commission come forward with by June this year on social inclusion, as it was challenged to do in the Lisbon conclusions? Further than that, how quickly will the high-level group on the future of social protection begin to move into the realm of a convergence strategy for social protection that this House has called for? So we are concerned with the substantive follow-up as well. One point disappoints me – that is the stance of the EPP in all this. It is trying to pretend that it welcomes the outcome because it is largely liberal and concentrates upon the liberal market aspects. It should be honest and say that, like us, it has always supported a social market economy. We welcome the emphasis upon the smooth and efficient functioning of markets. But as always we want that to be balanced by solidarity and social inclusion. I hope the group has the political honesty to accept that it continues to support that point of view. Mr President, I wish to thank Mrs Hermange for her report – I shall focus on employment – and also the Commissioner for his statement this morning. Mrs Hermange has the correct approach: we are not seeking to amend the detail of the structure of the guidelines. When we agreed to the streamlining of the economic and employment guidelines last year, we implicitly agreed not to unpack the guidelines themselves until 2006 – the mid-point. That is the right approach: we need that stability in the guideline structure. However, we must acknowledge that we need to focus ever more upon the implementation of both the economic guidelines and in particular, perhaps, the employment guidelines. The problem lies there: Member States are not implementing the guidelines properly. Therefore, we have introduced a number of recitals that seek to focus upon key areas of implementation. For example, Amendment 1 concentrates on research and development. With the streamlining of the broad economic and employment guidelines we have every right to expect a comprehensive European framework for investment in lifelong learning, research and development and infrastructure to create a European Union engine for growth and to transform that growth into full and better employment and more social cohesion. That is what the Lisbon process is about and we are falling far short of that at the moment. In our Amendment 2 we focus on a couple of issues highlighted by the Employment Task Force – the Kok report – namely adaptability and lifelong learning. They are there in the employment guidelines. However, we must acknowledge that in all the national plans, to a greater or lesser extent, there are failures in achieving the targets laid down in those respects. Amendment 3 concerns taking possession of the delivery of guidelines by national parliaments, social partners, NGOs, and local and regional authorities. We need to encourage those tiers of government to take possession of the guidelines and ensure their proper implementation. I particularly welcome Mrs Hermange's Amendment 6 on better harnessing of the structural funds for delivery of the guidelines. I also welcome Amendment 7 to encourage companies to better anticipate economic, technical and industrial change. Throughout this mandate, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has insisted on a proactive approach to the management of industrial change. She is right to make that call. Finally, I know that Mr Bushill-Matthews intends to table an oral amendment to Amendment 5 to place emphasis upon the need to retain older people in the workforce. We would be happy to accept such an amendment. Mr President, I join with everyone else in congratulating Mr Andersson on the production of an excellent piece of work. I would also like to thank the Commission and the Council for their joint report. It really does provide an excellent overview of this very important subject. I hope that you, Mr President, can pass on a request to DG I that maybe one of these days they could organise a daytime debate for an important social dossier such as this one. We are supposed to be building bridges back to the citizens. This is a subject that matters to many millions of citizens. It is a shame that it is tucked away in a night sitting once again. The Andersson report really underlines the need for both the employment strategy and the Lisbon strategy to begin to deliver in several important respects: continuing gross gender inequality in terms of access to and participation in the labour market is reflected in gross gender inequality in pension entitlement. Even if we achieve the Lisbon target of 60% for labour market participation by women, the target itself acknowledges the fact that women's participation will continue to be less than men's. We therefore need to consider flanking measures along the lines suggested in the report by, for example, promoting the individualisation of pension rights and urging Member States to guarantee continuity of membership of pension schemes during parental leave or leave to take care of children or other dependants. A second problem highlighted by Mr Andersson, and one that we really have to redouble our efforts to tackle, is the need to raise the effective retirement age, not the statutory retirement age. There is some confusion in certain quarters on that. There is now a widespread early retirement culture within the Union. Sustained long-term efforts will be needed to change attitudes and tackle that culture. But there are few signs that we are even beginning to make a start in doing that. The joint employment report from the Commission for 2002 reported that only four Member States have put in place fully-fledged national active ageing strategies. The same report showed that the efforts of most Member States to provide education and training to older age groups are still woefully inadequate. The Commission must, in its next round of recommendations examining the achievements of Member States against the set guidelines, make the strongest possible recommendations against Member States who continue to fail to deliver in these and other important respects. The final point of the report I should like to emphasise concerns atypical workers. Their insecurity in the labour market - and many of them are women - will be reflected again in continuing insecurity in their later years, in the decades ahead, unless something is done to lessen that insecurity. It is a terrible shame that several Member State governments - my own included - have set their hearts and minds against the proposed directive on temporary employment agency workers. The longer it is delayed the more the earlier directives on part-time and fixed-term working will be undermined, as temporary agency working becomes the favoured choice for employers for whom the word 'flexibility' means squeezing the maximum out of labour for the least possible reward. Temporary agency working would become an ever-growing bottom tier in a two-tier labour force. In the end the whole of European society would face the consequences. I hope even at this late stage that the governments concerned - including my own - might see sense and help us put in place a sensible piece of legislation to reinforce the point that flexibility can actually be a positive concept for both employers and workers. – Despite the pre-summit hype in the run-up to Barcelona, which suggested that the agenda would be considerably skewed in favour of neo-liberalism and structural reform, the outcome maintains the essentials of the policy mix established at Lisbon, namely mutually supported economic reform, full employment, social cohesion and, from Gothenburg, the issue of sustainable development. The one element that we would have liked to have seen further developed in the overall mix at Barcelona is that of sustainable development. We think that it needs to be stitched into the other policy strands and cannot simply be dealt with as an add-on. Barcelona did, of course, touch upon the issue of liberalisation concerning the opening of the electricity and gas markets. I have two points to make in that respect. The first is that, alongside the liberalisation debates, we very much welcome the key decisions reached in Barcelona to guarantee high-quality public services in the European Union as a fundamental guarantee for citizens, and in the interests of territorial and social cohesion. The second is that, for us, liberalisation in sectors such as energy is not an end itself. It must be harnessed to the achievement of improved qualitative and sustainable growth, improved social cohesion and a better, cheaper, more effective service for citizens. Prime Minister Aznar spoke about targets for 'inter-connectiveness'. From what I hear, however, liberalisation in Spain has led to a number of broken connections, with blackouts occurring in Madrid and in other areas. That is the sort of thing we need to avoid. The EPP and ourselves have tabled a compromise text which I hope will win support in this House. There are two further points from that text which I would like to emphasise. First, there is a need to strengthen Europe-wide economic investment policy in order to encourage public and private investment as a crucial element in the stimulation of economic activity. Second, there is a need to recognise that labour market reforms have to be geared towards the creation of better-quality jobs, with a clear emphasis on the requirement for substantial investment in people and their potentials. This the point Parliament made in the Bullman report. This investment particularly needs to go towards education, training and life-long learning. The proposal adopted by the Commission today concerning temporary agency workers is an important contribution in this respect. It will help promote a proper balance between flexibility for enterprises and a proper degree of security for workers working within and moving between those enterprises. It will also bring about improved employability. It is therefore a very welcome step. The essentials of the policy mix remain in place, and the compromise resolution which is tabled before us clearly sets out the steps we need to take in the weeks and months ahead. I hope the House will support it. – Mr President, on this side of the House we are not trying to stop restructuring but we want it to be done in a socially responsible way. We want a pro-active approach to industrial restructuring and change. We want to see a corporate code of social responsibility but we can see that this will be achieved only when we have an updated and completed legal framework in this area. We want to see true partnership at work and the real benefits that this can bring to the European Union. But the latest spate of restructuring in the United Kingdom and throughout the European Union shows that we are far from achieving those things. To the Corus workers in the north-east of England or Wales, to the Vauxhall workers in Luton – or, for that matter, the Danone workers in France and Holland – the idea of a corporate code of responsibility – as I said in an earlier debate – is a sick joke, quite frankly. The promise of a Green Paper in the middle of this year is not an adequate response to the anguish that those workers, their families and entire communities have felt. We want to see a review of the law on collective redundancies, a review on transfers, a review of the European Works Council Directive, to make sure it is a directive that is observed rather than being systematically avoided by business. We also want to see the general framework on information and consultation adopted as a matter of urgency. This is absolutely essential if we are going to introduce an ongoing day-by-day flow of consultation and information and, in that way, build a true partnership at work: a partnership that can deliver improved innovation, competitiveness and productivity. We want to see that true partnership. We are tired of the linkage of various directives in this package, with the excuse that we cannot look for a review of the European Works Council Directive until it has been further bedded-in and the European company statute is in place. Yes, we need to establish linkage, but in taking this package now and taking a holistic approach to the need to improve information and consultation for workers. We believe that if this framework of legislation can be updated in this way, coupled with the new observatory on industrial change, it can give us the tools for a more pro-active approach to industrial change within the European Union. I would also like to make an appeal to the Liberal Group. We were given a mandate by this House in January to look at this issue of restructuring in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. We have done that. We have come up with an oral question and a resolution in a spirit of cooperation. I would ask the Liberals, in the spirit of cooperation, to withdraw their highly destructive resolution. It would be helpful. – Mr President, I would like to focus on employment and social issues. I very much welcome the document produced by the presidency this week as part of the preparations for the special summit in March. It presents a commendable, coherent approach, an holistic approach which is very welcome, all the more so because it takes into account a number of the important proposals we have made in this House in recent years. These include the need to improve coordination between the employment strategy and the broad economic guidelines. I look forward to the implementation of the proposals you will agree in March and hope you get the support you need. Just one thing prevented my joy from being complete and that was in relation to the convergence of social protection. Many of us in this House hoped to see a Luxembourg-type procedure on convergence in social protection but I am afraid the language of the document falls far short of that, talking instead about joint analysis, cooperation and the exchange of best practice. That is not enough to bring about the modernisation in social protection systems that we need within the European Union. Turning to specific social dossiers, there are two I would like to look at very briefly. One very important one for us is the general framework on information and consultation. I hope progress will be made on that dossier during the Portuguese Presidency. But there is also the modernisation of the works council directive, its review and amendment. In recent months I have been visited by workers from Michelin in France, Ford in Portugal and yesterday by ABB-Alsthom workers affected by that merger, workers who have been denied their rights under the works council directive. It needs to be updated and it needs to be implemented by the Commission. The Commission is failing in its duty. If we are serious about partnership at work and the improvements that can bring; if we are serious about innovation and productivity, we need to review the legislation in this area and make sure both sides of industry show proper respect for each other in that process of partnership. Mr President, I produced the opinion for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs at first reading and I would like to raise two specific points that still arise from that opinion. The first concerns paragraph 2 of Article 27 in the classical directive and the equivalent text in the utilities directive. It is important that we leave out the phrase 'collective agreements declared or deemed to be generally binding'. That phrase would create difficulties and legal uncertainty, most particularly in Germany and the Scandinavian Member States. I have worked very closely with the European Trade Union Confederation and with the public service unions both at first reading and second reading and I have received – and a number of Members here will have received – a large number of representations from concerned individuals in those countries. I hope, via split votes, that we can leave that text out of the finished text at second reading. My second concern applies to Article 53 in the classical directive. Several amendments will probably be on offer to align this text with that of Article 55(1), in the utilities directive, as it now stands following the adoption of an amendment by Mr Karlsson in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. I disagree with what Commissioner Bolkestein said earlier on this point. If we align the classical directive with the text of Article 55(1) of the utilities directive, we would be bringing them into line with the emerging jurisprudence of the European Court of Justice. Not to do so would be a retrograde step. The Commissioner and his services have consistently given far too negative an interpretation of ECJ jurisprudence on this point and that is why we have such clear difficulties emerging in our debate here over applying environmental and social considerations. I hope that these considerations can be taken into account tomorrow. – Mr President, we are going to have to wait and see what the Council makes of the points we are raising tonight in relation to the legal basis. I hope the Commission will think again about the acceptability of Amendments Nos 14, 15, 17 and 19 on the statute, concerning the inclusion of the consideration of employment effects in the case of a merger, transfer or conversion involving an ECS, because I think they are entirely justifiable. In the meantime I would like to take the opportunity to look beyond the institutional and legal basis arguments and look at the implications these proposals might have for the development of the social economy in a European Union which is trying to deal with a range of profound changes. The globalisation of markets and the decreased competitiveness of traditional sectors call for the diversification of economic activities and an exploration of new means of creating job opportunities. Technological progress calls for a highly-qualified, flexible workforce, which in turn expects a more participative working situation. Increased female participation rates and an ageing population with longer life expectancy increase the demand for household and caring services. These increasing and more diversified social needs, compounded by budgetary restrictions, have led public authorities to decentralise the provision of services or to reduce the range or level of services they are providing. The social economy can play a part in meeting the challenges and seizing the opportunities arising from these and other processes of change, and in a way can help shape a new model of society and an economy based on solidarity, inclusion and participation on the one hand, and innovation and knowledge on the other. I can say these things with certainty because I have been looking back at the evaluation of the third-sector initiative which ran from 1997 to 1998, thanks to a budgetary initiative by Mrs Ghilardotti, who is here tonight. That evaluation underlined the fact that the development of the social economy to satisfy unmet needs could create as many as 120 000 jobs in the United Kingdom, 380 000 in Germany and 100 000 in France. But perhaps one statistic from the evaluation best illustrates the potential scale of future job creation relating to communal services: the gap between employment rates in the USA and the EU is largest in communal services, which include social services, recreation, education, health and social care. Equalising the rates would be equivalent to up to 7 million jobs. The promotion of the third system could contribute to an increased demand for and supply of these services and one, moreover, which could help close the employment gap most among the very social groups where it is greatest. We have a very well-established cooperative sector in my own region of England. It has interests in retail, manufacturing, services, farming, housing, banking and a wide range of other areas. The sector in my own region provides 13 000 jobs in the north-east of England. I know that many there will welcome these new instruments as opening the way for a fresh boost to the social economy and employment through transnational developments. That would be particularly useful in the context of enlargement. I also think that the Commission really ought to look back at the evaluation of that third-sector initiative. It supported us at the time and there was much talk of mainstreaming the results into the ESF, ERDF and relevant programmes. Yet just four and a half years later I was deeply disappointed to see that the modest reference to the social economy under the enterprise pillar of the old employment guidelines had completely disappeared under the heading 'fostering enterprise and promoting job creation' in the new, streamlined employment guidelines. In this case, new and streamlined does not mean better, and that needs to be rectified as a matter of urgency. – Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for the statement. I look forward to reading the communication. It is one of the most important debates we need to have. I have a couple of questions. There is indeed a major demographic shift under way within the Union, and we must try to ensure that we retain older people in the labour market. However, there is a big problem: those older people will be the people with outdated skills. Does the Commissioner agree that this will lead to the revolution we have been pressing for, with a shift away from a concentration on initial education and training towards continuing training and lifelong learning? This will become essential. There are some contradictions and difficulties: for example, there is a tendency everywhere in the Union to raise retirement ages, and yet at the same time there are widespread public subsidies for early retirement. Is there not a danger that the finger of blame will be pointed at the Union, because these difficult issues are being forced upon Member States for decision at this stage? – Mr President, I also wish to thank the rapporteur for the tremendous work he has done under very difficult circumstances to bring this report to us today. I would also like to thank the Commissioner for what he said and for the effort which the Commission has made to accept amendments from Parliament. I know the Council is doing the same and is standing by waiting for us to adopt our opinion today, so that it can go ahead and adopt the employment guideline package. That presupposes, however, that we will adopt this report today. In that respect, I would like to make an appeal to the PPE-DE Group, because that group has a tendency to seek revenge for the rejection of the Thomas Mann report on the spring summit some two months ago. That group has made it known that certain amendments are regarded as key amendments and if they are rejected in the House today then that group will vote to reject the whole employment guideline package. That would be a tremendously damaging blow. We have already dislocated the streamlined coordinated process, involving the employment and economic policy guidelines. I hope we can get the whole exercise back on track and I hope that group will pull back from this brinkmanship. The amendments its members regard as key amendments are causing us some difficulties. For example, Amendment No 64 concerns the stability pact. They are placing considerable emphasis on that point. That is strange because not even Mr García-Margallo y Marfil from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs places such emphasis on this point in his report on the broad economic policy guidelines. Amendment No 66 calls for a reduction in the overall tax burden on individuals and companies. A number of Members have made reference to this amendment already. This is a fundamental ideological point and is causing some difficulty for a number of my members. The emphasis that the PPE-DE Group members are placing upon this suggests that they have a determination not to seek consensus and to look rather to create problems for the adoption of this package. This amendment on the overall reduction in the tax burden is incompatible with the one they have tabled on the stability pact and it also concerns an area of responsibility that is reserved for the Member States themselves. I cannot believe that if that amendment were rejected the PPE-DE Group would reject the whole package but I am assured by Mr Mann that would be the case. I hope the group will pull back. Reluctantly I am urging my members to abstain on Amendment No 66 in the hope that it will get through – although I disagree with it. If I fail and they lose that amendment, I again would appeal to the PPE-DE Group to pull back and not reject this package. It is simply not worth it. My final point, which is very important, is on Amendment No 23 on the social economy. Last month I mentioned in the debate on the Cooperative Statute that the social economy had disappeared from the employment guideline package. I hope we can bring it back in as a result of this amendment. – Mr President, you have given me the floor as rapporteur but in fact the name on the report is that of Mrs Damião. I would like to begin by sincerely thanking her for the hard work that she has done on this dossier. Sadly, she is ill and is only slowly recovering. I know I speak for everyone when I say I wish her the fullest and speediest possible recovery. I would like to thank the Council too for the adoption of a common position which strengthens the Commission's original proposal and also incorporates a number of the European Parliament's first reading amendments. Parliament particularly welcomes the inclusion of a new point in the proposed directive to prohibit all activities exposing workers to asbestos fibres, except demolition work and disposal of waste products resulting from demolition and removal work. The whole thrust of the proposal is to protect workers engaged in those activities and repair work, which will bring workers into contact with asbestos locked up in the built environment for many years to come. It is with this in mind that in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs we have adopted three amendments at second reading, designed to strengthen still further the common position. A quick word about each of those amendments: Article 3(3) of the proposal derogates from important elements of the directive in respect of workers whose exposure is of a sporadic and low intensity. This was too open-ended for the Employment Committee and, therefore, we wanted to pin down that definition of sporadic and low intensity still further. Amendment No 1 does this by specifying that Member States, in accordance with their normal tradition and practice, will consult with both sides of industry and lay down practical guidelines for determining work of this kind. We think that is an important step in the right direction. Amendment No 2 makes provision for breaks for workers obliged to wear individual breathing equipment because of their potential exposure. Again, we think this is an important step. It is extremely uncomfortable to work for long periods in individual breathing equipment. The Council had some resistance to Amendment No 3 initially, but we felt it was important that we included a specific mention of sanctions and, in the end, we have included a text which has been used quite often in other social and employment dossiers in the past. We are quite pleased with that as well. Overall, we have had very good cooperation with the Danish Presidency on this dossier – to such an extent that we feel we can reach agreement at second reading with the assurances we now have from COREPER that the Council will be willing to accept these three amendments adopted in the Employment Committee. It is my hope that, with these three amendments adopted and voted upon tomorrow, the Danes can take this forward as an 'A' point on 20 December and they will be adopted very quickly. I say I hope that will be the case because the deadline for amendments on this dossier closed only a few minutes ago. I hope that no groups have taken advantage of that deadline to table amendments. If they have, I can say with absolute certainty that those amendments will not be carried in the House – we know that from the margins in the Employment Committee. But it would delay the adoption of this dossier beyond the Danish Presidency into the spring – the earliest would be March under the Greek Presidency. That would simply lead to a further delay of weeks, if not months, before this directive could be agreed. That would put back its final adoption and implementation within the European Union and during that delay additional workers would inevitably be exposed to asbestos fibres and, over time, might die as a consequence of that exposure. So I hope no groups will take advantage of that deadline – if any have, I hope they will, even at this late stage, withdraw those amendments. Therefore, I would hope we could include this on the voting list tomorrow. Everyone has had the amendments agreed in committee for a couple of weeks now in translation. That would allow the Commission to deal with this dossier at its meeting tomorrow afternoon and that, in turn, would allow the Danes to deal with it on 20 December. If we do not find that additional amendments have been tabled or if they are withdrawn, I would ask you, Mr President, to use your good offices to have this added to the voting list tomorrow lunchtime. – Mr President, a number of members will be wondering whether, as rapporteur, I will be seeking to refer this matter back to committee. The committee was concerned that the Commission's strategy document was rather vague in terms of the action to be taken in the health and safety field. I can now tell the House that, in a meeting with Commissioner Diamantopoulou yesterday and during the debate last night, I received assurances that the Commissioner will come to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to detail the action to be taken and that a report will be presented on an annual basis to facilitate the monitoring of progress by the committee. On that basis, I recommended to the committee coordinators, at a meeting this morning, that we should proceed with the vote and not refer back. The coordinators agreed, and I therefore recommend that we proceed with the vote. . – Mr President, while my report welcomes the Commission's communication, it is also constructively critical in a number of important respects. The report emphasises three horizontal issues of great importance to the success of the strategy. First, the lack of an action plan. The strategy suffers from an unacceptable imbalance and a lack of strategic vision for follow-through. The initial analysis is basically good but the proposals for action are often little more than a description of an issue. Where they propose action, they are often vague, and there is virtually no indication of resources or the timing of the strategy's implementation. For example, the communication presents a good analysis of the changes being brought about by the increasing feminisation of society and the impact of an ageing population, but then proposes virtually nothing by way of action. The report therefore calls for an action plan with timing commitments against each major proposal, for such a plan to be endorsed by Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in time for the spring 2003 European Council and for it then to be subject to annual monitoring through the Social Agenda scoreboard, as advocated by the Council. Parliament and the advisory committees would also need to be involved in this monitoring process. This is a serious point and I know the Commissioner will be listening to it. I call upon her to give a clear indication tonight that there will be a positive response to this call. If not, I have a clear mandate to ask for this report to be referred back to committee, where it will be reformulated to reject the Commission's strategy. The second major horizontal issue is a lack of resources. In 1992, some 130 officials were working on occupational health and safety within the European Commission. Today, that number is down to around 24. We might disagree over the precise numbers but the Commissioner would agree there has been a dramatic reduction in the number of staff working in this area. This is not a basis for the kind of dynamic and proactive administration that would be required to implement the strategy, capable of responding to a changing policy environment while continuing to monitor and scrutinise the implementation of existing legislation and policy measures. It is essential that this trend is reversed and that adequate resources are allocated to this policy area within the Commission. The third major horizontal issue in the report highlights a lack of balance between legislative and non-legislative instruments. I am concerned that the development of non-legislative instruments should in no way be seen as an alternative to maintaining and improving Community legislation on occupational health and safety. Specific instances are given where the gaps and deficiencies in the existing legal framework need to be addressed and where comprehensive approaches to legislation, rather than ad hoc tinkering, will be important for both established and new risks. Turning to the specifics of the report, there is clearly not enough time to deal with them all, so I shall highlight only a few. First, the report makes the point that, given how much more problematic health and safety are in small and medium-sized enterprises, it is regrettable that the Commission has still not launched a multiannual SME programme based on the two years' preparatory action undertaken by the Bilbao Agency on the initiative of the European Parliament. Such a programme was supported by the Commission in the European Social Agenda endorsed at Nice. It would facilitate the testing, analysis and dissemination of successful measures in this critical sector. I very much hope the Commission will respond positively now. Second, in terms of emerging risks, I hope the Commission will look at the need for new laws in areas such as harassment at work, recently called for by Parliament. Equally, in relation to repetitive strain injuries, I hope it will revisit the display screen directive – the directive does not even mention the computer mouse – and the directive on manual handling. I hope it will go further and accept our call for a comprehensive directive on workplace ergonomics. The report also highlights a number of existing directives that are in need of revision. The Commission needs both commitment and resources to tackle that work. Reflecting the helpful opinion we received from the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, the report advocates the integration of a gender dimension throughout the strategy and highlights a number of specific strands of work to be tackled. The report also welcomes benchmarking, but it takes the view that a successful benchmarking approach will need not just more comparable and reliable data but also a harmonised system of definitions, recording and reporting of occupational injuries and diseases. My final point is that the report also welcomes the proposal to codify and simplify existing Community legislation in this field, so long as that is not coded language for deregulation for deregulation's sake. I am not accusing the Employment and Social Affairs Directorate-General of that, but there are forces elsewhere in the Commission that have that tendency. In committee I even went as far as to propose a joint amendment with Mr Bushill-Matthews saying that the review of the legislation should be used as an opportunity to promote the simplification of legislation and its repeal when it is redundant. None of us here should have an interest in maintaining redundant legislation, nor in making legislation complicated rather than as easy as possible to understand and implement. I hope the Commissioner can give us the assurance we need on this action plan. – I would like to begin by echoing previous speakers and adding my words of thanks to the rapporteur and to our chairman and to you for the magnificent work you did in that conciliation. The progress we achieved is in large part thanks to the formidable effort and attention to detail the rapporteur put in to this. There are three main issues which I would like to concentrate on in the brief time available to me. In the original working time directive we had agreed way back in 1993 that it would be possible to introduce annualisation of working time for categories of workers, but only where collective agreements allowed that to happen. The first two points I would like to make relate to categories of workers where we have managed to achieve that progress in the conciliation. As far as offshore workers and mobile workers in the transport sector are concerned – there was an attempt in the common position to allow annualisation of working time for those workers without collective agreement. Thanks to conciliation, collective agreement will now need to be the route for an extension to annualisation. That was an important point of progress. The second point concerns sea-fishing. There we have now built in to the directive the principle that a 48-hour average working week over a period of one year will be the rule. That can be subject to derogation but again only after attempts to broker collective agreements to involve the social partners. That should be the rule wherever there is an attempt to introduce annualisation and that principle has been safeguarded as a result of the conciliation. The third area I want to concentrate on – and it is what other speakers have mentioned – relates to junior doctors. Looking at this part of the agreement without detailed knowledge of the negotiations that went into it, it must seem like a very strange animal. A four-year transposition period – five years transition and then the possibility of extra time beyond that. But of course that was to take account of the special difficulties facing one or two Member States. I would repeat what other speakers have said: for us the period in question is nine years. That will be the normal period within which Member States will be expected to comply with the requirements of this directive in relation to junior doctors. That is why the procedure to go beyond that into what we might term extra time is so open – in a way humiliating for any government that attempts to take that step. I think that in fact we will see all Member States complying with that section of the directive relating to junior doctors within that nine-year time frame. I am confident, speaking today, that will be the case. A further important point might have been missed. The provisions relating to nine years for junior doctors only relate to the average working week. The other provisions of the directive relating to daily and weekly rest breaks, annual leave and nightwork will, of course, apply to junior doctors after a three-year transposition period just as they do for all other workers. Those parts of the directive can, of course, be subject to derogation but only by collective agreement so those elements will apply to junior doctors. The sections dealing with annual leave cannot be negotiated away and it is important to bear that in mind: i.e. the nine years for junior doctors applies only to working time – average weekly working time – and the other provisions of the directive apply after three years. The final point I would like to make relates to the transport dossier. It is very important that we get movement in that area in the Transport Council. Maybe the Commissioner has some news for us today. There was an agreement in the rail sector that the provisions of the working time directive would apply in that sector so long as there was parallel progress in other transport sectors, particularly the road sector. Unless we get progress in that sector, I am quite certain we are going to see a problem for the rail sector. The agreement will not be implemented in the near future at national level. – Mr President, I would like to request that the vote on the Damião report on asbestos be added to the voting list today. It is a matter of urgency. We have only the three amendments before us that were voted in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. No new amendments have been tabled here in plenary. Those amendments have been available for over two weeks in translation. If we can vote today, the college of Commissioners, as I understand it, could consider the matter this afternoon. It can then be taken at Council on Friday of this week under the Danish Presidency. The Danish Presidency has worked very hard to agree these amendments with us, and this would allow us to close the dossier at second reading without going into conciliation. I hope it can be added to the voting list today. – Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the Earl of Stockton on the production of an excellent report and also Elspeth Attwooll for the very clear opinion she produced for the Employment Committee. I would also like to congratulate the Reverend Owen for the courage and determination he has shown in pressing his case this far. Those attributes, together with his communication, advocacy and other skills, really make me wonder why the Church of England wanted to terminate his services in the first place. I think he would be a considerable asset to any organisation and I hope they will think again. There is no doubt in my mind that he has been given a raw deal. Either he had an employment relationship with the Church of England – in which case he would have had the protection of well-established procedures in UK employment law – or he was an office-holder who should have had the protection of the Church of England's own code of recommended practice, including the right of appeal. He seems to have fallen completely between these two stools and therefore a real injustice has been done. It is in that context that we need to read paragraph 2 of the Earl of Stockton's report, where it mentions an unacceptable situation in terms of the spirit of Article 136 of the Treaty of Rome, Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms on the right to a fair and public hearing by an independent, impartial tribunal, and Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. It is quite right to underline those references. There are broader implications arising from this case, as Jean Lambert has said. There are increasing numbers of workers right across the European Union who find themselves totally dependent upon one source of income but who are not regarded in their national law as having an employment relationship. These quasi-forms of independence and self-employment are spreading. We have been working with the Commission on this for some time and most recently in relation to the latest review of the insolvency directive. The Commission has commissioned a study as a result of our work on that review and it has also committed itself to holding a joint hearing with the Employment Committee to seek to establish common definitions. Without such definitions, it is increasingly clear that larger numbers of workers will find themselves outside the protection of the law. We need to establish definitions which will apply across the European Union. Finally, I would like to echo the sentiments of other Members in expressing the sincere hope that even at this late hour all of the parties involved in this dispute can get back around the table and, in a Christian manner, right the wrong which has been done to the Reverend Owen. – Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur warmly on the excellent way in which he has handled this piece of work. It was adopted unanimously in committee and, thanks to his adept handling of the matter, it seems set to be finalised through an informal conciliation under the Spanish presidency. That, as he has said, depends upon a clear commitment from the Commission that a declaration will be included in that informal conciliation to cover the situation of economically dependent or subordinate workers – not a very elegant description, but we all know which workers are meant. We all know the problem: full-time permanent workers, the core staff in many enterprises around the European Union, are becoming less and less numerous, with concentric circles of less formal employment relationships surrounding that core. The current directive will extend insolvency protection to part-time and fixed-term contract workers, but what about temporary agency workers? What about self-employed workers who are in a position similar to employees but who do not have an employment contract? What about workers working zero-hour contracts which are becoming more popular in certain parts of the European Union? This is all part of a broad approach which, for us, is about balancing flexibility for work places, enterprises, and a degree of security for the workers working within and moving between those enterprises. We, in the PSE Group, firmly believe that only in that way will all working people embrace the process of change. Otherwise a barrier will be put in the way of that process of change. The recent agreement on a directive on working time for long-distance drivers, which will include self-employed workers, shows us a possible way forward. The Commission, as the rapporteur has said, must commit itself to completing the study it has under way, a joint hearing with Parliament and then legislative or other action to follow that hearing. For us as well this is about an overall proactive and socially responsible approach to the management of industrial change. We in the PSE Group have called since the beginning of this mandate for a modernisation of the law governing transfers and insolvency and, indeed, consultation in the form of the European Works Council Directive. We hope that the remaining elements of those changes will be introduced as soon as possible by the Commission. I had a recent example in my own constituency where a company called Viasystems registered offshore before declaring insolvency, thereby avoiding the application of certain aspects of insolvency law. The subsequent Phoenix company which arose from the wreckage through a management buy-out shed over 500 jobs. Those people were made redundant, some of them with more than 30 years' pension and other entitlements which they lost completely. Clearly we still have a lot of work to do. This is a step in the right direction. – I would like to talk just briefly about some of the amendments tabled in the report by Mrs Smet. First of all Amendment No 5 relating to the working time of junior doctors in training. I agree absolutely with the amendment that has been tabled here reinstating the first reading position. I know certain Member States feel that a far longer transition period will be necessary. It might well be that the maintenance of this amendment will take us into conciliation. That will give us an opportunity to look at the circumstances facing certain Member States but for now I think it is absolutely right that we stick to this amendment. Mr Pronk is absolutely right. We should ask ourselves would we want to be receiving an injection from a doctor at the end of an 18-hour working day, which is not unusual. In the offshore sector, Amendment No 6 – we have looked long and hard to try to come up with a formulation that will make sure that we get a collective agreement leading to the maximum flexibility available under the directive, that is annualisation of working time. The formulation of the common position would have simply allowed the employers to walk away from attempts to reach negotiation on annualisation of working time and Member States could then have allowed annualisation. We have built in an addition here that will ask for a review after five years involving the two sides of industry at European level to see how the regime is functioning in this sector with particular reference to the health and safety of the workers involved. Amendment No 7 relates to sea fishing. The effect of this amendment will be to try to limit to one year the reference period available for the annualisation of the calculation of working time, in other words making sure that annualisation of working time is possible but no more. If we go to two, three or more years as the reference period for the calculation of working time it becomes absolutely meaningless and we feel that the maximum flexibility of one year annualisation should be sufficient. In Amendment No 8 we look at the issue of the transposition period to be allowed to the Member States. The common position proposes four years which I think is without precedent in the social area. We have looked in this amendment to return to the first reading position of two years. Perhaps again this is something that will be subject to conciliation but we will have to see if and when that is triggered following our vote tomorrow. My final point relates to urban transport, Amendment No 9. We have also built in here a review in order to try to remove an anomaly. The way things stand we would have a different regime applying to a person driving a tram to a person driving an urban bus. That needs to be reviewed. We think a five-year time period should be sufficient. Mr President, I very much support the joint resolution which my group has signed up to in relation to the Summit and the Social Forum. The important thing is that once again it seeks to strike the essential balance that was established at Lisbon: the balanced policy mix combining economic, social and employment policies in an overall framework of sustainable development. I hope governments will not succumb to the temptation to try in any way to skew that policy mix at the forthcoming summit. There is one element in the resolution that causes me some concern: the second part of paragraph 10. My Group will request a separate vote on that point and many will be voting against it. Why would that be? Are we in favour of needless, additional regulation? No. The first part of paragraph 10  which we support  makes that absolutely clear. It is equally true, however, that certain sections of this House, and local employers' organisations outside it, are increasingly calling for ever more stringent, narrowly-drawn business impact assessments as a way of blocking the Commission’s right of initiative on much-needed proposals. We cannot allow those calls for cost-benefit impact assessments to be used in that way. We on this side of the House support the idea of true and honest cost-benefit assessments that take account of all the costs and benefits. For example, in a debate on the revision of the working time directive last week in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, the point was made very forcibly by Liberal Members that we need a full business impact assessment. I make the point in reply that what we need is a true cost-benefit assessment that takes account of all the costs and benefits. What, for example, is the cost of a long-hours culture in terms of damage to family life, damage to children and marital dysfunction? A cost must be imputed to those things as well in such a calculation. We therefore urgently need to bring forward revisions of that sort. In relation to paragraph 9 of the resolution, which refers to opening up the market in postal and passenger services, it is important that a true cost-benefit assessment is applied there too. Finally, I would like to point out that in fact the Treaties are very clear. In the area of employment and social legislation, there is already a very clear requirement built into the Treaty: 'such directives shall avoid imposing administrative, financial and legal constraints in a way which would hold back the creation, and development of small and medium sized undertakings'. The Commission already applies those tests to every piece of legislation it brings forward in the employment and social field. That is right and proper. It is good that it takes place already, but we should not try to narrow it in order to needlessly block much-needed social and employment proposals that will help maintain that overall policy balance established at Lisbon. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Thorning-Schmidt, for the tremendous grasp she has demonstrated of this highly technical subject both in committee and in plenary. My father and his brothers and, in fact, all the male members of my family worked in the coalmines in the northeast of England and most of them have received compensation for both industrial white finger, which is caused by hand-arm vibration, and industrial deafness. This proposal concerning physical agents is a very real proposal to me. Vibration has been a major problem in the past. But it still is, and that is demonstrated by the very strenuous lobbying on all Members of this House from various sectors of industry in relation to this proposal. I would like to echo what the rapporteur has said about the other elements of the original physical agents' directive. Noise, the original directive of 1986, was due to be reviewed in 1991. Here we are, ten years later, and no revision to the existing legislation on noise has been made. On optical radiation, industrial lasers were in their infancy when the original proposal was brought forward. They are now in widespread use and we need to update or introduce law at European level on that subject in regard to fields and waves. We are increasingly bombarded by fields and waves of all types and all intensities in our homes and workplaces. That is set to increase radically as a result of developments such as the new bluetooth standard. All of those outstanding elements are becoming increasingly urgent, and I hope the Commission will continue its good work to break the impasse that has so far existed inside the Council. The rapporteur has introduced a number of important amendments in her report, but probably among the most important is Amendment No 2 concerning whole-body vibration. Amendment No 2 represents a compromise, it lies between the Commission's original proposal and the common position, and I hope it will receive the support of the House. We have received strenuous lobbying, particularly on whole-body vibration. There is general consensus on the need to act on hand-arm vibration, but industrial lobbyists have worked hard to convince Members that there is no link between whole-body vibration and injury. I know for a fact that the Commission has at least 17 box-files of evidence showing causality between exposure to whole-body vibration and injury. The difficulty is in untangling what proportion of the injury is due directly to whole-body vibration and what proportion is due to other factors such as poor ergonomics or bad posture. There is a causal link and there is a need to act. I hope we will see support for the rapporteur on that issue. The rapporteur has also mentioned a compromise to exclude agriculture. It proved necessary to introduce such a compromise; the exclusion would be for five years if it does come to pass. I would have preferred that it did not occur, but it had to happen to secure political consensus here for today's vote. If it is agreed, the Commission must not do its usual trick of waiting the full five years before assessing the scientific evidence and bringing forward a proposal. The preparatory work needs to be done to move quickly once that five years has expired. What, then, we are aiming for and will continue to seek to achieve in conciliation, beyond the debate and vote today, is a balance between action levels and limit values which it will be possible for industry to accept and implement but will at the same time drive forward improved engineering to eliminate vibration from new equipment and improve the way in which ergonomic considerations are taken into account. I hope the report will be supported today. Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur for his excellent work on the organisation of working time. As the Commissioner said, this is an issue which touches every worker and family within the European Union. However, although I clearly understand that individual Commissioners do not always get what they want when they want it, I am very disappointed with the way the issue of working time has been handled by the Commission as a whole. It had ten years to prepare and produce proposals on the operation of derogations on the opt-out and annualisation; the review and communication were clearly required by November 2003 and yet, incredibly, the Commission still managed to miss the deadline. When the communication came, it was, quite frankly, hardly worth the paper it was printed on. It is a weak document and gives no clear signal on the best direction for action. It should not, in my opinion, be allowed to stand as a proper instrument for the opening of the first phase of consultation between the social partners under the procedure included in Article 138. I hope the social partners will make that clear. Also, by the time the Commission got around to producing the communication, it was being bombarded with notifications from Member States that they would begin to use the opt-out in their health-care sectors in response to the SIMAP and Jaeger rulings. No doubt some Member States were being opportunistic in this respect, but the Commission had had three years to react to SIMAP; its inaction could therefore lead to the neutering of a central piece of EU health and safety law. In our view, a blanket spread in the use of the opt-out is not the answer to SIMAP and Jaeger. We want speedy and specific action from the Commission in response to those judgments and then time to sensibly revise other provisions in the original directive. As to how we solve those difficulties, we could look to social partner agreements or re-rostering arrangements that have been put in place in certain parts of the EU to deal with the implications of those cases. Or we could look at the type of definition we adopted to cover the case of relief drivers and overnight ferry tripsin dealing with working time for drivers. As well as working time and rest time the notion of periods of availability was included there. More generally, people like Mr Bushill-Matthews are constantly telling me that the opt-out is essential to give companies the flexibility they need to operate. It is strange then, in my view, that until recently only one Member State used this opt-out: the others were managing just fine and would still be managing in their health-care sectors if not for the SIMAP and Jaeger judgments. The truth is that the directive is flexible. More relaxed arrangements apply to a whole range of occupations and activities and the reference periods are generous. I for one would also be quite happy to look at whether annualisation of working time could be made a more realistic option in all Member States. Overall, the Socialist Group takes the view that an opt-out from a health and safety directive is a dangerous nonsense. The possibility was created for purely political reasons ten years ago and it was a bad idea from the start. A general opt-out is bad for the welfare of workers, bad for a proper work-life balance, damaging to efforts to encourage women to return to the labour market and, as the statistics show, not at all helpful in the drive to boost productivity. It is not the direction a Union committed to transforming itself into the most dynamic, knowledge-based economy in the world should even think of taking. So I, for one, will not repent and I will certainly not join Mr Bushill-Matthews on Wednesday. . – As a Member of the European Parliamentary Labour Party (EPLP) I will vote against this report. Though the report contains some useful suggestions for the avoidance of future outbreaks of FMD, it is seriously flawed in a number of important respects. It is factually incorrect in relation to its references to the legality of the culls, suggested breaches of animal welfare legislation, suggested breaches of environmental legislation and lapses in bio-security. It also, for example, states that 10 million animals were killed when farmers claimed for only 6.5 million. The report is so flawed that it cannot be supported. – Mr President, I very much welcome the programme and priorities of the Belgian presidency in the employment and social field. It is a programme essentially about the modernisation, but also about the renewal and reinforcement of the European social model, and as such it obviously strikes a positive cord with the Socialist Group in this house. One key element of that programme will be the work you will do to set out clearly the social goals we need to achieve in the reform of our pension systems. That, rather than a concentration on the concerns of the financial institutions, should be our proper starting point. Your work should also fit well with the communication announced in Parliament by Commissioner Diamantopoulou yesterday. In that broader field, you will be putting in place the most important building blocks for an open coordination for social protection, and we wish you well, although I was disappointed not to hear specific reference to social exclusion in that context. Three specific points in the employment and labour market area: first, in relation to quality of work, it would be very useful if you could work with us in Parliament to incorporate amendments on quality indicators into the employment guidelines for 2002 to jump-start the Commission’s communication on that subject. Second, also in relation to quality, I hope you will apply some pressure to the Commission to speed up its preparation and launching of a new strategy on health and safety. The delay is unacceptable. Finally, I know that you will work with us to adopt, as quickly as possible, the general framework on information and consultation and the company statute. But I also hope again that you will apply pressure to the Commission to speed up its work on the revision of the European Works’ Council Directive. That too is a very important ingredient and there is no good reason for its delay until the end of this year or the beginning of next. – Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Pérez Álvarez for an incisive and thoughtful report. The application of health and safety legislation to self-employed workers is an important subject, not least because of the ever-growing number of self-employed, subordinated, sub-contracted or atypical workers. The creation of false forms of independence and self-employment can put workers who are in an employment situation beyond the framework of protection. That is something we need to address. This is something that the Commission recognises and, working together, as Mr Pérez Álvarez has said, we have tried to do something about it over the years. The extension of working time protection to road transport personnel in the directive, agreed at the end of last year, will cover owner-drivers, but only because parallel legal bases covering occupational health and safety on the one hand, and operational safety on the other have been used. As Mr Pérez Álvarez has pointed out this evening, the issue was also tackled in the framework of the directive on temporary and mobile work sites, but in a fairly limited way. We therefore needed a more comprehensive approach and this recommendation may prove to be a useful contribution. But other actions are possible, such as the more general extension of health and safety legislation to the self-employed suggested in Mr Pérez Álvarez's Amendment No 4. I know the Commission has difficulty with that. The Commissioner will say that the legal base in Article 137 will not permit this. But, if the recommendation does not have a positive impact, then we will all collectively need to come back together to reconsider the legal bases that are available to us and maybe take the route suggested in Mr Pérez Álvarez 's Amendments Nos 7 and 22. If not, imagine the sort of problems we face in relation to, for example, the proposed directive we are currently considering on protection of workers from risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. We have massive amounts of asbestos hidden in our workplaces, homes, schools and hospitals. Many people with employment contracts will handle it and, if they work for a demolition, removal or transportation company, they will be covered. But a whole army of self-employed workers are also exposed to asbestos, in particular the electricians, plumbers and carpenters who come across it while doing maintenance work. They will be predominantly self-employed. It is also true that, even if we had a tenfold increase in the number of inspectors, they could not inspect this whole army of self-employed people at work. They need to be able to take responsibility for themselves. They need the information, the support and training to understand the risks they run if they take short cuts. The recommendation is a very useful contribution in that respect. – Madam President, during the conclusion of my contribution in the debate on company restructuring yesterday I pointed out to the Vice-President presiding at the time that there was an anomaly in the joint resolution which we will vote on later today. The resolution which I signed on behalf of my group on Tuesday included in the final paragraph a reference to Michelin. The text has now been distributed and while the English and Spanish versions include that reference to Michelin it appears to have been removed from the other language versions. One explanation I have had from the Sessional Services is that someone from the EPP Group had been in touch to say that point had been withdrawn. Madam President, the authors of the resolution, the signatories of the joint resolution, were not consulted. As far as I and the other signatories are concerned, that reference should remain in at the vote today. – Madam President, I do not wish to drag this out and frustrate Members waiting to get on with the vote on the budget. The test should be very simple. All you need do is ask for the version with the signatures of the various signatories from the different groups that combined in this joint resolution. If the reference to Michelin is there, that is the text we should vote on today. I would oppose a deferral until Brussels. – I too would like to welcome Nicole Péry back here in the Chamber and perhaps I could say, Nicole, that we miss you particularly when we have extremely difficult votes to transact. Perhaps you could pop back periodically. I would like to say that the compromise resolution tabled by my group and others has been cut down to the bare essentials to make it absolutely clear what we are calling for, but even so there seems to be a tremendous amount of confusion over exactly what we are calling for and I would therefore like to spell out two things that we are not calling for. First, we are not calling for the creation of a new expensive agency or institute. The tasks we want a monitoring centre to undertake can be handled at the Dublin Foundation and/or the Seville Joint Research Centre at little extra cost. Second, we are not seeking to stop mergers, transfers, restructuring or globalisation itself. That would be a ludicrous notion, but we want to see a socially responsible and anticipatory approach to these developments. We want the establishment of a coordinating centre for the monitoring of industrial change as a contribution to a more pro-active approach to the management of medium and longer-term industrial change in terms of its impact within the European Union and I would draw Mr Chichester's attention to the fact that service industries too are industries and we are looking at industrial change overall. This would be a centre to gather information and intelligence from all possible partners and actors, business itself, institutions of higher and further education, the employment services both public and private, the social partners from all relevant actors and again I would say to Mr Chichester, we are not saying here that governments should try to predict change. We want to work with all partners including business itself to try to assess the direction of change. The task of such a centre then should be to channel relevant information on anticipated changes to decision-makers at all levels to help increase our overall capacity to prepare the policy changes necessary to harness the opportunities to be gained from the perceived direction of change. This is not an idea we have plucked out of the air. As both the minister and the Commissioner have said, this follows on from the Gyllenhammar High Level Group following the Vilvoorde closure by Renault. The recommendation to create an observatory is one in fact that has been picked up in several EPP resolutions in recent months and I am therefore very surprised to see such a hostile resolution from that quarter here this week. The Liberal and EPP resolution says that such a centre would try to interfere in the markets and in commercial decisions. That is not the case at all. This is not about interference in commercial decisions but about making sure that we maximise the chances of us all being winners rather than simply the passive victims of change. But who knows, Mr Chichester, maybe even the world of commerce would benefit from the improved intelligence such a centre could provide. My final point is this: the resolution by the EPP and the Liberals is factually incorrect. It states that both Council and Commission have pulled back from the decision to create such an observatory, such a centre. We have heard from both the presidency of the Council here today and from the Commission that they are actively pursuing the idea. Your resolution is factually incorrect. It is missing the point and I hope even that at the eleventh hour you will recognise a good idea when you see it, withdraw your resolution and support ours. But perhaps I am a hopeless optimist. – Mr President, following Lisbon and Nice, I had hoped to see a better balance in the Commission's work programme between employment, economic and social policies, but I do not see much evidence of that. We need balanced progress in the internal market, in competition policy and in social policy, but again I do not see much evidence of that in the Commission's work programme. I would like to see, for example, a recognition of the interdependence between these areas of policy. In competition policy and internal market rules we need an amendment to the merger regulation to include considerations related to employment and social rights and the inclusion, for example, of social clauses in the public procurement framework. I would have liked a recognition of these inter-relationships, but I do not see it. I see far faster movement in the economic and internal market sphere than in the social sphere and there are real dangers of a growing imbalance in that respect. Furthermore I do not see much evidence in the Commission's work programme of the social agenda agreed at Nice last December. We will see further progress in areas of open coordination, in employment – well established now – and the first steps in relation to social protection. I should mention the fundamental problem that key Commission documents are not made available to Parliament and its rapporteurs in good time. We need to have respect for parliamentary procedures in relation to these new forms of open coordination. Finally, on a specific issue, the Commission's work programme misses the point by a great distance when it promises a Green Paper on a corporate sense of social responsibility in the middle of this year. A Green Paper on such a code is a sick joke to the many thousands of workers who have been affected by restructuring in recent weeks. We need a complete overhaul of the legislation framework in this area and I hope the Commission will move quickly in that respect. – Mr President, it is interesting that Mr Prodi has presented today a work programme; however, our agenda says that we are having a debate on a legislative programme. Looking at it from the point of view of social and employment policy we certainly do not have a legislative programme before us. In fact we have not had a legislative programme for several years now. What we have had instead is a process of consolidation and the development of certain convergence processes such as that developed and launched at Luxembourg. We welcome the Luxembourg procedure. We hope it will be deepened, strengthened and extended to other areas such as convergence in social protection. But does that mean that we have done the job in terms of legislation in the social area? I think not. There are a number of areas where we need to update and modernise the social legislation we have adopted in the past. With the deepening and strengthening of the internal market and globalisation we are seeing an increasing number of mergers, take-overs and transfers within the European Union. That, to me, says that we need to look back at the whole framework of legislation we developed largely in the 1970s in this area – on transfers, collective redundancies, insolvency, and latterly on works councils. We need to modernise and strengthen that legislation, not in order to stop globalisation or the deepening of the internal market – of course not – but in order to make sure that we manage the changes these things bring, through a spirit of partnership in all of our workplaces, large and small, within the European Union. That means that we need to pursue with vigour the general framework on information and consultation at work. In the health and safety field as well, there is a need to update and modernise the legislation we adopted in the past: the pregnant women at work directive, five years overdue for review; the noise directive of 1986, ten years overdue for review; a number of directives that need to be radically updated and modernised. But is it just about updating? No. We do not need any new great raft of social legislation, but there are areas that have not been addressed. We have outstanding promises for legislation on homeworking, on teleworking; we have the yawning gap of social security in atypical work that has been outstanding for almost a decade now; we have the promise of a specific directive on muscular-skeletal injuries outstanding from the last medium-term Social Action Programme. There are other areas. I had a woman come to see me recently, called Mrs Angela Elliot Mathis, working for Lucent Technologies. She was head-hunted into the company at a very high level to work as a senior manager and a board member. She had worked in a range of European countries for high technology companies. Thirteen months into the job she was dismissed without notice and without reason. She still has no reason for the dismissal. The remarkable thing is that she has no protection in either Belgian law – she was working in Belgium – or European law. Without that sort of protection people will not take the opportunity to live, move and work wherever they can within the European Union. These are the gaps we need to plug. Let us do it in the new medium-term Social Action Programme. Mr President, the Commission's mid-term review is actually an exercise in marking time. It is full of hot air with very little substance. There are a range of issues outstanding. We now have a three-year delay in the revision of the European Works Council Directive, despite the recent occurrences at Genk and a whole series of earlier problems. There is a blockage in Council on the temporary agency workers directive, a vital part of our effort to balance security and flexibility. We have a very uncertain timetable around the revision of the working time directive and an end to the scandalous abuse of the opt-out in my own country. There is an outstanding call from Parliament for a directive on individual dismissals and the social security aspects of atypical working: no action on those fronts has been taken at all. I also share Mrs Smet's concerns over enlargement, the , the application of the  – particularly in the area of occupational safety and health, the development of social dialogue, open coordination in the European Union as it will be this time next year. All of these things are causing us deep concern and we have seen little, if any, action on all of these important issues. Let me make it clear that we fully understand the pressures and the obstacles being put in the way of Commissioner Diamantopoulou and her efforts to deliver on these important issues. Some of these come from inside the college of Commissioners, some from Council, some involve governments of a socialist complexion. All I can say is that we will redouble our efforts to try to ensure that we support her in overcoming those obstacles and moving the social agenda forward. That is vitally important. Unless we can deliver and move the social agenda forward, there is a very real danger that the overall, carefully-balanced policy mix established at Lisbon will be destroyed. If that happens it will be a major disaster for the future of the whole of the Union. Mr President, I am pleased to hear such sensible words emanating from the PPE-DE Group. I must take issue with the Commissioner. She says that my assertion that this policy area is sidelined is not true and then gives a number of examples of recent progress. I would remind the Commissioner that the dossiers on optical radiation fields and waves, vibration and noise all date back ten years. They were part of the original physical agents proposal. I am glad that there has been movement in Council, but these are very old proposals. I would say to Mr Bushill-Matthews that there are new and emerging risks in the health and safety field. In my report on the strategy I said that guidance, training, information and a whole range of options could be adopted as a response, but I believe that legislation also has to be considered as part of the mix. Finally, it looks as though I am probably in line for a mention in his next book as well, so I would just give these words of comfort to Mr Bushill-Matthews: I am sure that if you simply agreed with me more often, the feeling of stress in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs would evaporate. – Mr President, I could tell my good friend, Mr Pronk, that if he will have a word with Mr Aznar, I will have a word with Mr Blair. It is a majority proposal. We have problems with a number of governments. I should like to thank the Commissioner for what she has said. I see now the sense in the strategy that she is adopting. I hope the delay in a revised proposal might lead to progress. I would say this, however: please bear in mind that if part of this strategy is that a new proposal is brought forward after the turn of the year that is substantially different to the first then we, Parliament, would need to be consulted from the beginning once again. Please bear that in mind. One argument in addition to the list of crunch points that you mentioned in your introduction that has been deployed by my own government and others is that of subsidiarity. It is not a very good argument in this particular area. In the ten years up to 1996, following the introduction of the Single Act, there was a tripling in the number of mergers and take-overs in both the service and manufacturing sectors. An interesting thing is that two-thirds of those mergers and take-overs were at national rather than transnational level. They were, however, directly related to the completion of the internal market. Therefore developments at Member State level are inextricably linked to the changes we have put in place at European level. That is one of the strongest arguments against subsidiarity – denying progress in this area. In the 1970s our governments, despite the unanimity rule, introduced a directive on transfers, one on collective redundancies and one on insolvency to try to bring about responsible restructuring following the oil shocks. It is absolutely dreadful that the Council now seems to be paralysed when it comes to this directive, to the worker involvement in the company statute and indeed the Commission in relation to a revision of the Works Council Directive. We need to get this moving once again. – Mr President, we Socialist members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs believe that Mrs Diamantopoulou has shown herself to have the skills and attributes that she will need to become a good Commissioner for Employment and Social Affairs. We will give her every encouragement and the support she will need to pursue progress for social Europe through the college of the Commission. We hope she will be heard fairly there. She knows some of the tests we will apply to her. I should like to mention three. Firstly, a commitment to sit down at the earliest opportunity with members of the committee to devise a new social action programme to cover the term of office of the new Commission, which will recognise the realities of the new world brought by the euro and the new possibilities arising from Amsterdam to promote employment and opportunity and to combat insecurity and exclusion. Secondly, to seek with Parliament a new understanding on the operation of the social dialogue provisions of the social chapter. Neither the procedure itself nor the legitimate expectations of this democratically-elected institution have been met in the way the procedure has been used so far. That is an urgent priority. Thirdly, to join with Parliament in calling upon the Council to remedy the exclusion of Parliament from the macroeconomic dialogue agreed at Cologne. The last thing we need now is to add to the democratic deficit. Should all go well tomorrow, we look forward to working with her on these and other matters. – Mr President, because I only have a minute and a half I will make only one point and that too has to do with social dialogue and the social partners. Next week in Stockholm, on the eve of the summit, there will also be a summit of the social partners. It will be taking place in the midst of something of a crisis for social dialogue, because the employers seem set to walk away from attempts to negotiate improved employment rights for workers placed by temporary employment agencies. That is a very serious issue. In the framework of Stockholm we need to look very seriously at the importance of the social partners in improving flexibility for our enterprises, whilst at the same time safeguarding workers in or moving between those enterprises. That is what we are promised in the adaptability pillar of the employment strategy and what should be delivered by the Lisbon process. But unfortunately the reality in my region and elsewhere in the Union is that workers placed by temporary employment agencies are placed at a severe disadvantage. They are paying the price of improved flexibility for enterprises. Employers have to be made to recognise their responsibilities. If they are determined to walk away from these negotiations, the Commission must make it absolutely clear that it will take immediate legislative action and the Stockholm Summit should make it clear that the Council will do everything it can to expedite the legislative instrument to cover workers placed by temporary employment agencies. – I have to express amazement at the two speeches we have just heard, one from Mr Bushill-Matthews and the other from Mrs Villiers. They seem to be engaging in a self-fulfilling prophecy. They deplore the fact that the European Parliament is regarded as involving itself in trivia and generating red tape and yet they spend their time issuing press releases describing very important pieces of health and safety legislation as nothing but trivia and red tape. It is hardly surprising that the British media project the sort of image that they describe. This is a very important piece of health and safety legislation, building upon the corpus of such legislation that we have adopted at European level over the last twenty years. It is not trivial for the families of the 500 000 people who fall from heights at work every year. 300 000 of those accidents are serious enough to cause the employees to be absent from work more than three days. 40 000 of those falls are very serious and 1 000 result in deaths. Try to explain to the families concerned that this is a trivial issue. It is not. It is a very important issue and survey after survey, including those in Eurobarometer, and surveys of SMEs including by the last British Government have shown that SMEs themselves recognise the importance of good health and safety legislation. I deplore the fact that the consensus we have had in this important area of policy has been broken in this way by a small minority in the EPP. It really is absolutely deplorable and we should all – right across the political spectrum – make it clear that we will not tolerate that sort of behaviour from that minority. It is described as bureaucratic. But read the directive itself, read the proposal. Is it onerous? Is it burdensome? Does it require detailed voluminous risk assessments before work is carried out a height? No, it does not, it is a very easily understood, readable, implementable directive and it should be described in that way. It should be described as making a valuable contribution to preventing injury and deaths within the European Union. Please do not engage in this trivialisation and then come along here and hypocritically express surprise that this institution is being held in ridicule. You are the people who are causing that. Stop it now, please. – Mr President, I speak for the Socialists from the point of view of Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. The Barcelona Summit will be a major milestone during the Spanish Presidency and it is essential that we reply to the downward global economic trend by further deepening and strengthening the process laid down at Lisbon and further developed at Stockholm and Göteborg. The Lisbon policy mix of mutually supportive economic reform, full employment, social cohesion and sustainable development needs to be reinforced through concrete measures that increase the potential for growth and job creation. It would be a grave mistake to concentrate – as some have done in the debate today – on only one aspect of the Lisbon process, that of structural reform. At this time, we need to further develop the coherence of the Lisbon process and reinforce it. In concrete terms, we want a number of priorities developed at Barcelona, some of which are reflected in the Commission's synthesis report adopted this week. The following are purely illustrative in the limited time available. We want a strengthening of resolve to achieve the goal of a 70% employment rate by 2010, recognising the good progress we have seen and increasing the participation of unemployed people in active labour measures to at least 20% in nearly all Member States; we want to go further and set a new target of 44%, the level in the three best-performing Member States, to be achieved within a five-year timeframe. Within this timeframe we need, among other things, further action for women and older workers able and willing to stay in the labour market; action to improve the availability of affordable and good-quality child care; goals for reductions in youth unemployment and renewed emphasis upon life-long learning, training and improved mobility. We also need further action to address demographic change through an integrated approach to safeguard sustainable and universal pensions. . – Mr President, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has long argued for greater consideration of social and employment standards in public procurement in two ways. The first is by ensuring that current legal provisions are complied with by all tenderers so as to avoid any unfair competition. I would ask Members to bear that in mind in the light of what the rapporteur said in his introductory remarks. We need to note in this respect that it is not a matter of social criteria – putting a question mark over the objective nature of the procurement process – but the very opposite: what matters is to create a level playing field for all those taking part in a procurement procedure. The second way in which we want social criteria to be taken into account is by enabling contracting authorities to pursue certain social and employment objectives, such as equal opportunities and social inclusion in connection with procurement. But this is always – again I would stress this in the light of what the rapporteur has said – subject to the strict requirement that it does not distort competition. This is made plain repeatedly in the amendments by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, that were in turn inspired by the opinion of the Committee on Employment. The opinion of the Committee on Employment looked at the different stages of the tendering process and made a number of recommendations for each of those stages. At the first stage, the need for the inclusion of a reference to the law applicable should become a component of the contract documentation. Candidates, tenderers in a procedure, should have access to all the information on all social and employment criteria that they should be taking into account. Article 27 is particularly important in the general directive in that respect. I would draw Members' attention to Amendment No 129 by Mrs Berger. It is an excellent amendment, which I hope will be supported by the House. At the second stage we need to ensure that we have proper compliance with the standards laid down in the first stage and there should be a possibility to exclude people who have not toed the line in the past in relation to those social and employment standards. Article 46 is particularly important in that respect and I would draw Members' attention to Amendments Nos 82, 86, 87 and 89. During the selection of candidates and the award of the contract, we need to ensure compliance with legal provisions relating to employment protection and working conditions. That is Article 53, which has attracted most attention in the discussions inside the Committee on Legal Affairs. I would draw Members' attention in that respect to Amendments Nos 134 and 140. I sincerely hope we can reach agreement on one of those amendments in our vote tomorrow. Finally, there needs to be an adequate review procedure to ensure that these criteria are applied in the execution of the contract. Amendment No 108, among others, is important in that respect. I would draw attention to one final amendment, which is important. It was highlighted in the opinion of the Committee on Employment and relates to sheltered employment. Amendment No 36 gives Member States the possibility to reserve certain contracts for sheltered employment schemes or sheltered workshops where the majority of workers in those schemes or workshops are people with disabilities. This is a longstanding issue in some Member States, in particular my own. I hope this amendment can be adopted tomorrow and we get a clear reference to this in the directive for the future. That is the main gist of the opinion of the Committee on Employment. These concerns are all reflected in the amendments to be considered tomorrow. I hope they will command the support of the House. Mr President, the question has been circulated and I would put it to you and to the Commissioner that action in this area is long overdue. We talk of psycho-social occupational health and safety risks, which would include violence at work, harassment, bullying, stress and anxiety, as new emerging risks. I am beginning to wonder how long we can carry on describing them as 'new emerging risks'. I was looking back through some of my old papers recently and I saw that the group of trade union health and safety officers I was working with at that time, in the late 1980s, was already using that description then. Here we are, 15 years later, still using the same phrase and little, if anything, has been done at EU level to tackle these risks directly. I also realise on rereading our question that at least one element of it looks a little silly, namely the part that asks: 'Does the Commission intend to act rapidly in this field?' The answer is clearly 'no'. The excellent report produced by Mr Andersson and adopted in 2001 made two calls for action. It called on the Commission to publish a Green Paper and action plan no later than the end of 2002. We are still awaiting a response. Secondly, the report called on the Commission either to extend the scope of the Framework Directive on Health and Safety, or to draft a new directive to combat harassment at the workplace. Again, we are still waiting for a response. We would like to know what action, if any, the Commission intends to take in this field. The truth is that many Members of this House are becoming increasingly angry and frustrated at the disgraceful way in which work by the Commission on health and safety matters has ground to a complete halt in recent years. The Commission's Health and Safety Strategy for the 2002-2006 period is proving to be the sham I suspected it would be. When I produced Parliament's report on that strategy, I was seriously considering recommending its rejection unless it was accompanied by a detailed action plan. We received certain assurances from Commissioner Diamantopoulou and, as a result, we adopted a report which was critical but fell short of rejection. I now recognise that it was a bad mistake. Exactly the sort of drift, devoid of action, which I feared has ensued. I do not blame Commissioner Diamantopoulou herself, but it is clear there are high-level officials in DG-Employment that take a different view. This policy area is completely sidelined. The strategy itself touched on risks in this area. Under the heading 'Taking account of new risks', it says, 'The increase in psycho-social problems and illnesses is posing a new challenge to health and safety at work and is compromising moves to improve well-being at work. The various forms of psychological harassment and violence at work likewise pose a special problem nowadays, requiring legislative action'. On the next page under the heading 'The Commission will', it says, 'examine the appropriateness and the scope of a Community instrument on psychological harassment and violence at work'. Well, we are still waiting. The work programme for this year mentions an instrument on violence but not on psychological harassment. My final point is this: I have heard it said that it is difficult to legislate in this field for the problem is too complex, diffuse or subjective. Two Member States already have legislation in this field: Sweden and Belgium. What that means is that it is clearly possible to legislate and that some EU workers have legal protection, while the vast majority do not. That is the clearest justification for EU-level legislative action. These risks are causing tremendous suffering and anguish among workers within the European Union. It is high time that the Commission acted. – At the beginning of this year a macroeconomic dialogue became absolutely essential and no doubt the first meeting of the partners to that macroeconomic dialogue next week will be an historic step. Sadly we here in Parliament will be witnessing it from the sidelines. Despite an absolutely resounding rejection just last June in the European Parliament elections of the remoteness and secrecy of our institutions collectively, that first step next week will be adding to the democratic deficit in that Parliament will be excluded and there seems to be no good reason for this. The partners to the dialogue are of two types. First there are those like the social partners or the central bank who have a direct influence on facets of the equation such as wage formation or the level of interest rates and then secondly, in a class of their own, are the European Commission and the Commission advisers on the direction, for example, of the policy mix. They do not directly affect any of the facets of the equation, they have not got that decision-making power. They are there to advise and influence. In this respect this institution is one of the Commission’s main interlocutors. We might disagree with the advice and the direction they will suggest but we will not have the right to be there at the macroeconomic dialogue to say so. I am told that these sorts of things are technical issues and that we in Parliament should remain above them, but to me the issues that will be discussed in the macroeconomic dialogue that have been touched upon here are not technical, they are highly political and we, as the democratically elected institution, should have a part to play in that macroeconomic dialogue. That leaves the excuse of what some call the need for confidentiality, trust or even secrecy. Some have used the word secrecy. That is a retrograde step. We have found all sorts of ways in the budgetary procedure to find a working arrangement for this institution together with the Commission to maintain confidentiality and that could be done in relation to this dialogue. On the content, I hope the macroeconomic dialogue will call for and take note of evidence on the success of the active labour market measures we have been increasingly pursuing since Luxembourg. Has that resulted in an increase in the effective supply of labour or do we need to hang on to the increasing unsustainable view that structural unemployment represents the bulk of unemployment? Can we begin to abandon concepts like that, can we perhaps begin to take a more realistic view in the setting of interest rates, a view which would accept that conditions have changed and that we can now begin to hold back on interest rate increases as unemployment falls so as not to choke off a fragile growth? These are the sorts of points I would love to be at the macroeconomic dialogue next week to make, but sadly neither I nor any other Member of this institution will be allowed to be present at that meeting next week. That is a real retrograde step and an absolute shame. – Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues on the Budget Committee and the Budget rapporteur in particular for the good cooperation we have had with them in this first reading. That is code for saying that the employment committee got pretty much what it was looking for in this first reading and I am grateful for that. Others have referred to the Structural Funds. We are broadly happy with the fact that the Budget Committee agreed with our recommendations, so I would like to look instead at a number of subcategories of lines. One that is important to the Employment Committee is that of Social Dialogue. There we have ended up with EUR 4.5 million more than the European Commission were looking for initially. That I think is more in line with the tasks that we are facing in that important area and it includes appropriations to involve representatives from accession countries in Central and Eastern Europe which we think is very important. We have less than we wanted on B3-4003. That is a cause of disappointment because it is an important area with the expected implementation of the European company statute and, we hope, progress on the general framework for information and consultation of expenditure. We are happy that what we were looking for in relation to NGOs has been agreed in the first reading. This, we think, is a very important area – the idea of developing civil dialogue. I am particularly pleased that funding will continue for the NGO platform which I think is an important part of developing civil dialogue. Employment, of course, is one of the most important issues from the point of view of the Employment Committee. And here, with budget lines B5-502 and B5-503, we have combined some EUR 24 million more than the Commission’s original proposals. We think that is an excellent outcome. We are looking to implementing the employment chapter from Amsterdam and making progress in relation to the macroeconomic dialogue agreed at Cologne. We are therefore grateful that we have the funding to move those important issues forward. Two slight problems in conclusion, President. One is that we still have no enduring legal base for NGOs. I hope the Commission and the Council will make progress on that, otherwise the civil dialogue will end at the end of next year. That would be catastrophic. The other difficulty relates to technical assistance and the funds that have been transferred into the reserve. I hope that the Commissioner for Social Affairs will act quickly to provide the information necessary to release 50% at second reading. – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission for today's communication. I do, however, remain concerned about two points. The Lisbon Summit foresaw a key coordinating role for the European Council itself. Although it remained unspoken, one of the main reasons for that was to avoid the whole procedure being dominated by Ecofin. In the procedure in this communication there is a fundamental breakdown, following the June Council. We then have the separate competitiveness, employment and Ecofin Councils making the final decisions in their respective areas. It is at that point that Ecofin will become dominant and will hamstring the other two Councils. That is a fundamental flaw in the whole procedure. My second concern is that the first and last mention of Parliament is in May, in relation to the employment guidelines. If the Commission as an institution is serious about the involvement of Parliament, it should be joining with us in calling for an interinstitutional agreement to give Parliament a formal say in the preparations for the spring Council. . – Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Friedrich who was the Vice-President in charge of the conciliation on road transport, and also Mr Rocard who took part as chairman of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs; in fact, all members of Parliament's delegation, because it was very much a team effort. Thanks are due to Commissioner Palacio and her staff for the crucial part they played at several points when it seemed we were at deadlock. Finally, I should like to thank the Belgian presidency for the energetic and determined way they pursued agreement on this dossier. The outcome of the conciliation on road transport is very much to be welcomed. It plugs one of the last remaining gaps in the working-time mosaic. It is profoundly important from the point of view of health and safety, and road safety more generally, and it is also important from the point of view of ensuring fair competition between the road, rail and other transport sectors. On specifics, first we have secured the inclusion of self-employed drivers as a matter of principle. Some will be disappointed that will not take full effect until four years beyond transposition. But we should not forget that the Council's common position would almost certainly have led to the permanent exclusion of the self-employed. The Council wanted to exclude them in principle and only consider including them on the basis of a Commission study looking at possible distortions at some point in the future. Even then the Council would have been determined to block such a move from the Commission. We now have a total reversal of that situation. The self-employed are included as a matter of principle and can only be excluded if two things happen: first, if the Commission proposes such an exclusion; and secondly, if we, as co-legislator here in Parliament, agree with such an exclusion. Neither of those things is very likely to happen. Another important point in the outcome is a strong definition of self-employment. Even with only a temporary exclusion of the self-employed, we felt it was very important that we won a clear and limiting definition of what a self-employed driver actually is, to avoid unscrupulous employers pushing drivers into false forms of independence. We now have a very clear definition in Article 3(e), and the final sentence of that article is a catch-all: drivers who are not caught by the checklist of criteria included in the definition will be dealt with as though they are employees under the directive. That is an extremely useful definition. We have also considerably improved and clarified the definition of working time. It also now applies to the self-employed except in respect of general administrative work, not linked directly to the specific transport operation under way. On night work, I again know that some will be disappointed that we did not succeed in limiting night work to eight hours. I will make three quick points regarding that. It would have been impossible to get that through Council. Most delegations were against. There are valid environmental and road safety reasons to transport goods – if they must be transported by road – at night. Concession on night work became a key in securing the inclusion of the self-employed. This is a joint debate involving consideration of the importance of work, information and consultation. Members will see from Article 8 concerning derogations on weekly working time and night work that we have insisted upon the promotion of social dialogue as the first option. My final point is that certain aspects of the text before us are highly relevant to the state of affairs being brought to light by the Kralowetz case. Those aspects seeking to block the creation of false independent status, dealing with record-keeping, and placing a focus on the duties of consigners and others responsible for determining routes and timetables, are particularly relevant. But Kralowetz makes two things glaringly obvious. First, in the enlargement process we desperately need additional social safeguard measures and a socially controlled opening of the labour market for workers from central and Eastern Europe, particularly in this sector. Secondly, it is glaringly clear that if the level of control exposed by this case continues, important texts like this one will be worth less than the paper they are printed on. We must insist on full and proper application of controls across the European Union. My final point is that it is absolutely essential that we have European-wide rules that are binding throughout the territories of the European Union, otherwise the Kralowetz case will be just one of many which we will see in the weeks and months to come. – As you said, the proposal for which I am responsible is that relating to the enforcement of seafarers’ hours of work on board ships using Community ports. This is just one element of an overall package of proposals that were brought forward by the Commission last November to try to plug the loopholes of the sectors that were excluded from the original working-time directive back in 1993. I hope we are nearing the final chapters in this long saga and that soon we will have all sectors covered by arrangements on working time to protect worker health and safety. Just as a quick reminder, the batch that was brought forward last year by the Commission included first of all an overall amendment of the 1993 directive, that is the subject of Mrs Smet’s report; a directive on road transport, sadly that one is totally blocked in the Transport Council at the moment I understand it; the third, a directive implementing the agreement between the social partners on seafarers, was adopted in the form of a directive in June this year so that element is taken care of, and then finally the proposal that I am speaking on today, a directive on the enforcement of working hours on board ships using Community ports. The three proposals effectively need to be seen together in relation to the one proposal I am speaking on. There is the agreement reached between the two sides of industry in the maritime sector, there is the specific proposal relating to seafarers having recourse to Community ports, but also there is ILO Convention 180 and in fact the agreement between the two sides of industry in the maritime sector was very closely based on ILO Convention 180. These three proposals: the agreement, the directive on seafarers’ hours and the ILO Convention are designed to come into effect together in mid-2002. At the first reading on this particular proposal Parliament made no amendments but the rapporter, Hugh McMahon at that time, made the point that it was absolutely essential that these three instruments should come into effect at the same time to avoid any competitive disadvantage. I am therefore very pleased indeed that seems to have been agreed and we seem to be making progress in that direction. The fact that the ILO Convention now has a time limit set down effectively in the form of the other two directives means that we will, I am sure, have sufficient Member States with sufficiently large fleets ratifying the Convention to make sure that it too comes into effect in mid-2002. The only significant difference in the common position compared with the first reading position is that the implementation date has been put back by one year. That really is to allow Member States to overcome one or two technical difficulties they might have in ratifying ILO Convention 180 and thereby allowing the whole package to be brought into effect at the same time. Perhaps I could also say that I have just met with the two sides of industry from the maritime sector and congratulated them heartily on the agreement they reached. It took five years of negotiation to reach the agreement in the maritime sector. These things do not happen easily, they do not happen overnight but they did work extremely hard and we are now seeing the fruits of the social dialogue in that particular sector. I think it is very sad indeed that we have not seen similar progress in the road sector. The difficulties we are now facing in the Transport Council over the legislative proposal the Commission brought forward stem directly from the fact that there was a failure to make progress on a framework agreement on working time in the road sector. It reveals a real sharp contrast to the progress that was made in the maritime sector. That really poses a danger; it poses a danger to the revision to the general directive that Mrs Smet is also dealing with and the danger is this: the rail sector is included in the general directive. The two sides of industry there agreed to be included in the general directive so long as parallel progress was made in the road sector because they quite naturally fear a competitive disadvantage if they put in place wide-ranging arrangements to cover working time but the road sector does not. I hope the Transport Council will hear that message and that we will see some progress to make sure that road transport is covered, otherwise we see a real danger to the rail sector element of the revision to the general directive. For now, however, I can thoroughly commend the common position in relation to the enforcement of seafarers’ hours at work on board ships using Community ports. This will make sure that the workers on board vessels from third countries having recourse to our ports are covered by the same broad arrangements as the agreement between the two sides of industry. It is a perfectly sensible and good proposal and I commend it to the House. – Mr President, I would like to add my congratulations to the rapporteur, Mrs van den Burg, and members of other groups who have helped steer us towards what hopefully will be a successful vote tomorrow. We have heard that provision varies from Member State to Member State in terms of the protection afforded to temporary agency workers. That is indeed the case and that justifies the laying down of a basic framework of protection for temporary workers throughout the European Union, but I would also underline that it will include the accession countries. The numbers of such workers are increasing in those countries, but as far as I am aware they have no existing protection for temporary agency workers. My second point is that tonight we are pursuing a strategy which has been under way since 1997, when we adopted the employment strategy at European Union level. In the adaptability pillar of that strategy, to which all Member States have signed up, we agreed to strike a balance between flexibility for companies, of all shapes and sizes, and a degree of security for the workers working within, and moving between, those enterprises. We have already dealt with that in relation to the earlier proposals on part-time work and on fixed-term contract working. We were warned at the time of the part-working directive that it would cost hundreds of thousands of part-time jobs, particularly for women workers within the European Union. We now have the evidence and the opposite is the case, because part-time work has come to be seen as a positive option. What we are working on now will mean that temporary agency work will also become a positive option in the future. We are often told that it is already a positive option, and that many people want to be temporary agency workers. Only 10% of the 61,000 temporary agency workers in my own region say that they are temporary agency workers by choice. We can increase that percentage quite significantly if we get it right and bring this proposal to a successful conclusion. We should pursue that balance between flexibility and security. Mr Harbour says we have not done it yet but I would say to him that this is the first stage. This is the opening gambit and not the end game. This is a codecision dossier. We have a long way to go, through common position, through second reading and no doubt into conciliation. We can continue to pursue that balance between flexibility and security. In my own group, two issues have been of great importance at this first reading stage. One is 'day one comparability'. I therefore hope that Amendment No 42 will be carried tomorrow. The second is the comparator. To whom is the temporary agency worker compared in terms of pay and basic employment conditions? None of the potential solutions we currently have on paper are that elegant, but they get us through first reading and I am sure we will be getting back to that at the common position and second reading stages. – Mr President, I naturally support what my colleague, Mr Corrie, has said. This would be the first application of the Access to Information Act recently adopted by the Parliament in Zimbabwe. We should not underestimate the seriousness of the threats to these journalists on . We should accordingly be very careful not to inflame the situation in any way. Therefore I would ask that we should perhaps consider writing to the Minister of Justice rather than to President Mugabe, and also that we should say that we are merely confirming the facts of what happened in Cape Town. In the current situation we do not want to say anything that does not sound neutral. I would just urge that we bear that in mind when the letter is sent. – Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for what he has said, and also Mrs Sandbæk for so eloquently defining why this is such an important and urgent regulation for us to deal with tomorrow. The WHO estimates that 88-98% of all maternal deaths are avoidable if women have access to proper reproductive and obstetric health services. Recently on a visit to Rwanda I learned that 2 000 women die per 100 000 live births. In my own country, the United Kingdom, that figure is seven. Maternal mortality continues to rise in developing countries. Women die from haemorrhaging, from infections, from high blood pressure, from obstructed labour. They also die from unsafe abortions. The last speaker talked about the rights of governments to choose. I would emphasise that women in these situations also have the right to choose. If women in a country like mine have that right, then I would also argue that a woman who wishes, because of a variety of different circumstances, to make that choice, then that should be her right. Providing for reproductive health is not a euphemism for abortion services. Women have the right to reliable information and to compassionate counselling. We must at all costs avoid being drawn into debates which are only about us reflecting United States domestic policy. The reality is that if we do not receive a positive vote tomorrow, there will be no budget line. We will be guilty of turning our backs on a maternal carnage such as we see in developing countries. Is that the signal we want to send from this Parliament to the suffering women of the developing world? Now the European Union – and I emphasise also the governments of the south – needs to do more on maternal mortality, on HIV, on reproductive health and on contraception. North and south need to work together on everything from the country strategy papers which we produce with developing countries to prioritising gender issues and reproductive health and rights. Finally, I should like to say that it is very important that we have an understanding of gender and reproductive rights as a cross-cutting issue. We must invest more resources and interest to ensure that women can bear children in safety and with the freedom to choose if, when and how often to do so. – Madam President, ten years ago this week, our Sakharov prize winner, Aung San Suu Kyi, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. This Saturday, all living Laureates will go to Oslo to commemorate 100 years of the Nobel Peace Prize – she will not be there. She has been kept under house arrest since September 2000 and has not been allowed to move about freely for 13 years. Will you please, Madam President, send her a message of support from this Parliament and also urge the Norwegian Nobel Institute to express their deep concern about the fact that she is not able to join them on Saturday in Oslo. Would you also ask the Nobel Institute to urge the military junta in Rangoon, Burma, to give Aung San Suu Kyi her freedom forthwith. Thank you, Commissioner. I understand the point you are making in terms of preparatory action, but I wondered whether you could comment on whether actual budgetary provision will be covered under the action taken in the 2005 budgets. Pilot schemes, as you say, are being carried out and I was interested not so much in assessments but in whether proper provision within the budgets for preparatory action will be included. I should like to thank the President-in-Office for his answer. I am reasonably familiar with, and approve of, the Irish Government's strong position on Zimbabwe. My question is about the rollover of the common position. I wonder whether the presidency anticipates any difficulties in securing the rollover of the existing sanctions against Zimbabwe. Am I right to understand that there are Member States – and one in particular – which have a problem with the rollover that the presidency and others in the Council would like to see? Therefore, I am asking if you can tell me whether Member States are likely to be of one mind on the rollover. Second, would the President-in-Office consider it appropriate for the Council to now press for the extension of the list of banned individuals – a list of people who have sanctions against them and are not given visas – to include family members, people who have died or changed office and so on? In my view and in Parliament's view – it is in our resolution on the subject – the list should be extended and reviewed. I should very much like your opinion on this. It is something of great importance to the European Parliament and I look forward to your response. – I take it from the Commissioner’s answer that he is in favour of regulating the arms trade. What is his response to the brokering of arms which is still going on? Recently arms travelled from Russia via Antwerp to the war in Eritrea. Would he like to see a tightening up of the regulations to ensure that kind of gun-running cannot occur? Thank you, Commissioner, for a comprehensive and wide-ranging answer. It is always good to hear that the Joint Parliamentary Assembly is receiving much-needed extra funding considering the new work – with the committees in particular – that we are engaged in. Would you agree with me, Commissioner, that support for parliaments is an area of our governance and democracy activities which has been somewhat neglected in the past? For instance, for the country strategy papers, I can find no evidence that parliaments were consulted in any meaningful way, although civil society and NGOs were quite rightly involved. Joint Parliamentary Assembly parliamentarians are really thirsty for information, particularly on the EDF and on following the EPA negotiations. I am interested in the fact that some countries are already putting into their national indicative programmes a priority for parliamentary training and capacity-building, but out of 78 countries, if we are honest only a handful have made that kind of priority clear. I would like to know exactly how we can encourage national authorising officers and others to make this priority clear so we can ensure that accountability of parliamentarians is part of the process that we are engaged in. It seems to me that they do very little challenging of the executive in terms of questioning, financing and so on. I would also like to ask what exactly you suggest that we, as parliamentarians, can do in cooperation with the Commission to ensure that governments make parliamentary activity more of a priority. – Mr President, in an answer to me on Burma in the October session Commissioner Patten said that if things deteriorate in Burma, then holding the EU-ASEAN meeting planned for 11 and 12 December would be reconsidered. How bad do things have to get? Aung San Suu Kyi is held incommunicado. There are 3,000 political prisoners, 23% of the population live below the poverty line and 40% of the children in Burma are malnourished. Burma is now the world's second largest producer of heroin and opium after Afghanistan. They are conducting a major offensive against the Shan people and the Karen people and, as the UN rapporteur has said, there is no sign of any dialogue between the SDPC and the NLD. Today in Geneva the ILO are meeting as we speak and it looks very likely that they are going to support sanctions against Burma in protest about the use of forced labour. It is my understanding that the French representative in Geneva has supported that view. Now is the time to actually impose strict conditions on that meeting in December. Aung San Suu Kyi must be released and allowed to travel freely and a troika must be allowed to go to Burma and to go anywhere and meet anyone they like. Also today, Thailand, an ASEAN member, has said that Burma must allow a permanent ILO presence in that country, that there must be a mechanism to monitor forced labour and that ILO sanctions should not be lifted on their fellow ASEAN member until real results have been achieved. How will the EU respond to these strong voices from across Europe and indeed from the region for the first time? It is surely indefensible for the Commission and the Council to continue with any idea of holding this meeting. It will clearly be interpreted as a softening of Europe's approach at this time. Aung San Suu Kyi has reiterated recently that constructive engagement with Rangoon is not working and she and the NLD have asked for the meeting to be postponed. If the EU goes ahead, the junta would be encouraged and heartened by the decision to sit our foreign ministers from democratic European governments around a table which includes the military junta of Burma. We should be ashamed of such treachery. ASEAN would also continue to feel that it is not necessary to do anything about the pariah in their midst. Do we intend to collude with this or will we make a decision now to pull out? By standing by our own principles and the values that we cherish, we will also be cherishing the values of the people of Burma who are being so systematically persecuted by the military regime in their country. () – Mr President, my major concern is that the focus of EU action on crisis management is too often – I could say invariably – of a military nature, rather than on the longer-term conflict prevention which my colleagues have spoken about. I am pleased that the President-in-Office and Commissioner Patten understand the need to put in place measures to anticipate violent conflict and to promote what I would call a culture of prevention. Troop deployment, as we know, is expensive and very prone to failure. Of course, we need to be able to react rapidly, but the EU must improve its ability to use all the economic and political levers at its disposal and use them more effectively to tackle the root causes of tension, which the Commissioner mentioned earlier. Twenty-four of the world's forty poorest countries are either engaged in some kind of armed conflict or have recently emerged from it. In Africa, 20% of the population live in countries affected by armed conflict. Therefore I have to ask the Commissioner, how it is that the Commission's policy planning and early-warning units, provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty, have 20 members of staff, 11 of whom are engaged in working in Balkans whereas only one is assigned to the world's most conflict-prone region, Africa. I would be very happy if the Commissioner could look into that. Are there plans to have a more balanced approach in the early-warning unit? Secondly, would the Council and Commission not agree that we need urgently to develop common strategies for west Africa, the Horn of Africa, the Great Lakes region and for southern Africa? Finally, does the Commission agree that country strategy papers which have been drawn up under the Cotonou Agreement must urgently include an impact study of policies on conflict so that we can be assured that we know what might happen in the 77 countries which are part of the Cotonou Agreement. – President-in-Office, thank you for the answer. I am, of course, very happy that the new common position has been established by the Council and that it has strengthened the position as compared with the past. I prefer to use the name Burma rather than Myanmar since the people of Burma and now Aung San Suu Kyi, the legitimate leader in Burma, do not refer to it as Myanmar. I should prefer it if Parliament avoided the term Myanmar also. I have to say to the President-in-Office that the net impact of the various measures the European Union has imposed since 1996 has been very limited: the Burmese have not entered into dialogue with Aung San Suu Kyi and the democratic forces in Burma remain as outside the whole process as ever. Whilst I express my support, one thing still puzzles me. Whilst we take these measures, there is no progress on the pressure that some of us in Parliament have been trying to exert on the Council in relation to the need for sanctions – sanctions, of course, which Aung San Suu Kyi has consistently called for. Related to that, we continue to oppose the Massachusetts Federal laws which impose very effective sanctions on Burma. We are waiting for the US to decide against these Federal laws. Will that remain the case? If the US decides in favour of Massachusetts, will the European Union then reintroduce our opposition in the World Trade Organisation to these measures taken in Massachusetts? – Thank you very much, Commissioner, for that comprehensive answer. Can I assume from your answer that the Commission still believes that constructive engagement has any value? After the catalogue of terrible events that you have just given us, it seems to me that constructive engagement has seen its day. Do you not think that we should now be exploring other ways of tackling the problem of our relations in Burma? Should we not be looking at investment issues as the French Government are doing? Should we not be challenging the whole tourism issue as the British Government has been doing? If the European Union is not prepared to call for economic sanctions then why not, for instance, suggest that the SPDC should be challenged in the UN and its legitimacy as the Government of Burma challenged in the UN General Assembly? I wonder if you consider that a viable option for the Commission and the Council at this time? – Mr President, I would like to welcome the Commissioner – I am sure that, as a Dane, he finds it particularly difficult to have his work held up by a very small amount of snow. I want to focus this morning particularly on the Economic Partnership Agreement negotiations which are now taking place between the EU and the ACP. 40 out of the 78 ACP countries are least-developed countries, 38 have very serious levels of poverty and several others are particularly vulnerable as small island and land-locked states. As you are well aware Commissioner, the ACP perceive these negotiations as involving not just the pursuit of neo-liberal ideologies in respect of trade but the importance, in addition, of having a clear understanding that the economic partnership agreement negotiations are as much about development as about the promotion of trade liberalisation. The structural transformation of ACP states into competitive economies capable of exploiting the opportunities which the relationship with Europe offers will require, as I know you acknowledged to us in the committee last week, a huge investment in capacity building, particularly in trade capacity building. I know there is an investment being made in that area now, but I would urge you, Commissioner, to monitor that very closely because I suspect that, as the negotiations go on, it will be necessary to devote extra resources to the ability of the ACP to deal with the regional trade arrangements and other aspects of the negotiations. As you know, there are severe supply-side restraints that they face as well. Eastern European countries are receiving billions of euros to upgrade food-processing standards before they join the EU. You know very well that the ACP will have great difficulty in meeting the phytosanitary and sanitary conditions that will be a necessary part of the future relationship. I trust that they will get at least as much support for their efforts to upgrade the processes that they have. Also, Commissioner, you are aware of the potential cost of reciprocity and the fact that, under their economic partnership agreement, the same level of commitment will be expected from the ACP as from the European side. I hope that you will take into account the difficulties that this will cause and that you will ensure that there are rigorous impact studies of the costs and the implications of reciprocity for ACP countries. – I have to say at the outset that I am extremely encouraged by the fact that the Commission has worked out such a very clear strategy for dealing with these very critical weeks before the election takes place. I particularly welcome the fact that we are training domestic observers – I think that is very important and will offset the likelihood of Mugabe criticising us for coming in in a neo-colonialist way to interfere in his election. I also welcome the fact that we will be supporting civil society’s objectives in these next few weeks. I very much hope, Commissioner, that we will disseminate this kind of information in Zimbabwe because those people trying to mount an opposition campaign will be heartened by the kind of information that we have had from you today and I think that would be important. One of the things I want to talk about briefly is the role of the state-controlled media in the run-up before the election. The Commissioner did not mention this, but it would be sensible to do so because TV, radio and state-owned newspapers in Zimbabwe are acting now as if they were the agents of Zanu-PF. All reporting of opposition parties is negative, with the MDC a particular target. I would really like to know what we can do from the European Union to try to ensure that the opposition groups – and there are 26 parties standing in the election – have some access to the media. State-controlled media, Commissioner, is refusing to take paid advertising even from the main NGOs who are just working to support the electoral process and democracy in Zimbabwe, or from any opposition parties. Only three independent newspapers are carrying any kind of adverts from parties other than Zanu-PF so that only the claims of the government are being read or seen by the people and that has to be a contradiction if we are talking about providing democracy. The fact is that the independent press does not have the print capacity to deal with demand. People in Zimbabwe are afraid. The deaths and injuries in the rural areas and increasingly in the towns are deeply worrying. Zanu-PF has the government resources, and the MDC supporters are too afraid to donate money. I even read in the British press that Kabila and Qadhafi are giving money now to Mugabe’s campaign, which is a bit frightening. It is deeply worrying that the opposition are fighting their campaign on Zanu-PF grounds. They have no control over the electoral roll, they have no control over the polling stations that will be run by government civil servants. This is wrong because the role of these government civil servants in the last referendum was very dubious indeed. The people understand that and are aware of it. There is evidence also of this Fifth Brigade being involved in pre-election crackdowns. The Fifth Brigade were responsible for the brutality that Mugabe perpetuated in Matabeleland in the 80s. That also is something that worries me and I would like the EU to look into it. Finally, President, let us be sure that we work as a European Union to create the conditions which will allow the people of Zimbabwe to express their choices in this election in June and express their choices in secret and without fear. – Mr President, as I am sure you are aware, next Wednesday the world will commemorate the tenth anniversary of the Rwandan genocide. Nearly one million people were slaughtered, and international intervention came only too late. Even now, we have to ask if there is the political will to put in place the measures likely to prevent future suffering on this scale. You will, I know, agree that there must never be a 'next time', and I would therefore request that tomorrow we remember the events in Rwanda ten years ago and that we have a minute's silence in support of the need to never stand aside again. – Mr President, before Doha, many of us were clearly aware that the issue of access to medicine was going to be the benchmark that developing countries would use to test our seriousness about whether we wanted to launch a development round. What we have seen is a declaration on access to medicines and public health. Even the title is important because it is not just about access to medicines, it is about support for public health. It is groundbreaking and, as someone said this morning, it has within it a commitment to the whole question of flexibility of the agreement on TRIPS. As the Commissioner is well aware, the United States and Switzerland, in particular, argued that the reference to public health was too broad. They wanted it to be limited to certain infectious diseases. But I have to say, Commissioner – and you will agree – that what happened represented a real victory for developing countries because they were skilled in negotiation, and that position by the US and Switzerland, in particular, was finally rejected. It is important that we pay tribute to developing countries and to the negotiating skills that they displayed. The belief traditionally fostered by the pharmaceutical companies has been that patents are sacrosanct. After Doha that has changed. If drug companies price medicines beyond the reach of people who need them, governments can override patents without the fear of retribution. Despite the progress at Doha, as far as patent rules are concerned, the story is far from over. I have two specific questions, Commissioner. Does the Commission agree that the immediate challenge is to ensure that the WTO lifts the restrictions on the export of cheap equivalents of patented drugs to countries which have decided to override a patent but do not have the necessary manufacturing capacity? That issue was not resolved at Doha and has been referred to the TRIPS Council. Secondly, how does the Commission intend to ensure that countries without production capacity or insufficient production capacity can make full use of the compulsory licensing provisions? This must, in my view, be accompanied by a reduction in the length of drug patents in poor countries. TRIPS currently dictates a patent term of 20 years world-wide. At the review of the rules scheduled for 2002, the WTO should at least agree to extend the deadline for TRIPS compliance for all developing countries and base it on development progress rather than on arbitrary dates. I wonder if the Commissioner agrees with me on this? Finally, on the question of developing countries, I would like to pay tribute, in particular, to ACP countries, in which we have a particular interest and partnership in the European Union. The 77 ACP countries succeeded in obtaining a waiver. They put out a brilliant declaration before Doha. I have had several meetings with them since then. They are well pleased with the results. – Mr President, last week in the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly we unanimously adopted a resolution on coffee. We called for urgent measures to alleviate the impact of commodity price instability in ACP countries. We have joined a chorus of voices from the Spanish parliament, the US Senate and the House of Representatives that are demanding change. Twenty-seven ACP countries are dependent on coffee. It is that background knowledge, which the Commissioner outlined, that explains why it is so serious that world coffee prices have crashed by more than 60% in the last decade. Today, Parliament, in its resolution, calls for action. The international community, including the EU, has a responsibility now to address the collapse of world coffee prices and to alleviate that terrible suffering which Mr Wijkman talked about – 25 million coffee-dependent poor farmers and the communities in which they live. The EU boasts about having a trade and aid approach to international solidarity. Indeed that is something we aim to do and we also have the necessary policy instruments. The EU Member States make up 15 of the 21 importing country members of the International Coffee Organisation. That makes us a key player in the market and with key responsibilities to the coffee-producing countries. We welcome the fact that in November the Council gave serious consideration to this issue of coffee dependency. However, since then very little has happened, in spite of the fact that the Commission has joined and echoed that support for an ICO quality programme. The Commissioner mentioned the communication, which clearly is not now going to be on the table in time for the ICO and world high-level round-table meeting in London. We called for that in our resolution and we regret that it clearly is not going to happen. The fact is that, despite the state of the market, the coffee companies are doing very well, thank you. In the free market their global reach gives them unprecedented options. Ten years ago coffee-producing countries received around one-third of every dollar spent on coffee. Now it is less than eight cents. Last year in Uganda I met a farmer who was selling a kilogram of her coffee beans for 150 Ugandan shillings. Later on I paid  Ugandan shillings in the Sheraton Hotel for just one cup of coffee! The four big companies together buy almost half the coffee beans produced around the world. The roaster companies must take greater responsibility for paying farmers a fair price for what they grow, to enable them to send their children to school, pay for health care and just put food on the table. There is terrible human suffering at the heart of the coffee business and we must put pressure on the companies to do more and care more. The EU has real authority in the ICO and we have a responsibility in the round-table meeting to hammer out policies which will give the farmers an opportunity to live their lives with dignity and financial security. I want to know whether the Commission is preparing a specific action plan for this meeting, because just turning up simply will not be enough. We want a statement and an action plan. I also want to know – and that again is in our resolution – whether we will be sending a high-level representative. Is the Commissioner going? Is the Director-General going? At what level will the European Union be represented in order that we can have a clear and ambitious action plan? Then we can all continue to enjoy an excellent cup of the world's most popular drink – coffee. – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission and the Council, and I think we can rely on the Commissioner to take a very strong stand on these important issues. As she acknowledges, the European Union has a particular and important role to play: as a major donor of aid, as the biggest donor of humanitarian aid in the world and as the biggest trading block in the world. We have clout and we need to punch our weight in Johannesburg, but I acknowledge that it will be difficult. Market access is a key issue. President Museveni, after the Bali meeting, said that talk about sustainability is all very well but that market access is the most important issue. Ghana also challenged the European Union last week, saying that the Union talks about opening borders and about bringing down barriers, but is clearly protectionist and unfair. Ghana, of course, is talking about the high tariffs that have to be paid when an attempt is made to introduce processed coffee into the European Union. Nor can we preach about free trade when we continue to hand out subsidies to our farmers which artificially depress the prices of commodities such as cotton. We need coherence, we need consistency, we need to have an understanding of what self-reliance actually means, providing a ladder out of poverty, and we also need to understand about creating real global partnerships. Commissioner, you need alliances in Johannesburg. The United States is blocking plans to halve the number of people who lack sanitation – two fifths of the population of the planet – while 2.4 billion do not have any sanitation, not even a bucket to use, in a world where that is one of the main causes of disease. Twenty five per cent of urban Africans have no piped water whatsoever. The US position is always a very negative one, as it was when I was at the UN Children's Conference. The world's superpower is not prepared to address these imperatives, and I hope that we will make a clear case that we will not meet the millennium development goals unless we take strong action. . – Mr President, as you suggested, this report is meant to focus on the real opportunity that the UN Special Conference on Children and Children's Rights which takes place later this month gives this Parliament to focus on a fundamental way in which we can tackle global poverty. It is an opportunity for us not only to give a profile to this subject but also to call for action. Let me set out what the targets are: free and compulsory education for all, halving adult illiteracy by 2015, eliminating gender disparities in primary and secondary schools by 2005 and extending learning opportunities for adults and young people and improvements in the quality of education provided. We are quite tired of hearing about development targets. They are set and they are endless. We know the ‘whys’ for all these development concerns. What we from the Committee on Development and Cooperation are asking is ‘how’ we are going to deliver on these targets. The subject is at the heart of the global strategy that we, in our committee, discuss on poverty. The EU clearly has a key and central role to play here. Clear commitments were made at Dakar in Senegal last year. But neither from the EU nor anyone else really are we getting practical strategies. I was a teacher myself for 30 years, mostly in primary education so I think I am quite justified in having a passion about looking at the reasons for this crisis. One in six of the world's population are functionally illiterate. One hundred and thirty million – one in five – of the total number of children are not in any kind of primary education. One terrible statistic is that two-thirds of those are little girls. Their learning situation is terrible. Many of will have seen children trying to learn sitting under a tree with not even a blackboard to assist the teacher. When we talk about information technology we are often talking about children who have never even held a pencil in their hand, never mind being likely to sit at the keyboard of a computer. In these schools too the quality of their education is often affected by the fact that they are not taught in their own language. There is a clear link between illiteracy and income poverty. Average incomes in a country mirror very clearly the levels of access to education. There is a clear link between child mortality rates and the level of parental education. A 10% increase in girls' enrolment in primary school would bring a substantial improvement in infant and maternal mortality rates. And yet we see aid from developed countries to basic education being slashed from budgets across the globe. It is only 1% of the total. Developing countries themselves take insufficient interest in the importance of education. The sub-continent of India spends less than 1% of GDP on education. As far as the EU is concerned, I hope the Commissioner will agree that this is not enough. I hope you are not going to state in your presentation that all of this will be incorporated into existing procedures. We need an answer from the Commissioner on how we intend to implement the goals. I would like to hear how he intends to improve coordination of the national indicative programmes for Cotonou and about our involvement in the steering committee working on education in Africa. I also know that there is a promise of a communication on basic education from the Commission during the Belgian Presidency. I would like to know when we might expect to see that. Let me just touch on one or two issues. Priority for girls obviously, and I suspect that Mrs Junker will speak about that. Last in, first out; that is what happens to girls. Girls have a low status and therefore there is no priority for getting them into school. I would like to see a lot more training in ministries in developing countries and concrete programmes to ensure that we get girls into school. The impact of HIV is enormous. There are millions of AIDS orphans in the developing world and in a country like Zambia there are more teachers infected annually with HIV than they are able to train to put in their schools. These are clearly very critical issues for us to discuss. Meeting the targets looks difficult. Is there sufficient political commitment in current circumstances to ensure that we will get all the girls into school by 2005? The reality is, and I hope that people will admit this very clearly at the UN Conference the week after next, that as things are going all of these targets are unachievable. Meeting the target of universal primary education looks extremely difficult. I would like to know from the Commission how its work in trying to achieve these targets includes NGOs and civil society and all those people who are involved in the Global Education Campaign. It is a very successful, active and dynamic campaign. I would hope that the European Commission is very much engaged with them but I suspect that is not the case. According to the Global Education Campaign, the targets on education would require USD 8 billion a year. This is the equivalent of four days of global military spending and 9 minutes of international currency speculation. Therefore it seems to me that if the commitment was there, we could deliver. It is a price worth paying. The current inequities that I have described are untenable and certainly indefensible. – Mr President, we should not be too worried about allowing a Commissioner to bask in the glory of congratulations from the European Parliament. It is a rare occasion so he should enjoy it. As he suggests, we should be looking forward rather than backward now. We should welcome talk of modernisation and reform of the WTO and the recognition that we need seriously to modify the perception that is held elsewhere of the protectionist stance of the industrialised world. A key objective for us must be for all 135 members of the WTO to have a part to play in that process of reform as well as what goes on afterwards. I can confirm that 30 members did not have the capacity or the ability to go to Seattle. My abiding memory was of the sense of exclusion felt by developing countries. They all remained adamant throughout that there was a great deal of post-Uruguay Round unfinished business – on textiles and agriculture in particular – that needed to be addressed. I was heartened by the fact that three-quarters of the WTO members could no longer be ignored. It was they who were able to call a halt. Should we be surprised that they wanted to do that on the grounds that they have only 0.4% of the share of world trade? There are choices: either we allow globalisation to roll on without guidance or we rein it in to ensure that it brings benefits to all. We have an opportunity to address the concerns raised in Seattle. That means identifying the problems and then acting. Of course, we did have the difficulty of the 135-page draft you took with you to Seattle, upon which you have no broad agreement, so it was hardly surprising that difficulties were encountered. At the end of the week, the developing countries were simply not prepared to accept a "done deal" made in secret rooms by the big players. Of course we recognise the fact that we need a rules-based system to regulate world trade but let us see more openness, let us see more and better ways of achieving and building global consensus. – Mr President, I also warmly congratulate the rapporteur who has shown enormous commitment to this report. We thank you very much for it. We are clearly in a very serious situation. The regulation for South Africa expired on 31 December 1999. It is clear, as the rapporteur has suggested, that we need to proceed with some urgency in order to provide a legal base for our essential work in South Africa. This budget line is the work of the European Parliament. I was the budget rapporteur in 1994 when the Development Committee established the line. That was because we wanted to see practical and tangible assistance for South Africa's peaceful transition to a free and democratic country. Surely that has been one of the most encouraging events in recent history. Now the Republic, with its new President Mr Thabo Mbeki, faces new challenges which, in my view, require sustained partnership with the European Union. This is not the time, as others have suggested, to have the kind of mean-spirited delays that we have seen from the Council; neither is it the time for political point-scoring by other institutions of the European Union. Indeed, it is my view that the Council has rather cynically orchestrated the eight-month delay in response to the first reading in order that it could better manage its negotiations on the South Africa trade and development agreements. This has put life-saving programmes at risk and any delay now would exacerbate the existing impression in South Africa of a European Union which seeks only to serve its own interests first. Coming as this does after ouzo and grappa, we are in danger of sending a very bad signal to South Africa. Decisions need to be made. We cannot risk delay. For example, I am very familiar with the South African Human Rights Foundation. That would be endangered. The Foundation for Cultural Initiatives programme, the South Africa Labour Development Trust, policing in the Eastern Cape – all these programmes would be very seriously threatened by delays. If there is delay, if agreement is not reached on the regulation, then new programmes will be affected too. Even the 2000 budget of EUR 1.54 million would not be committed. Let us be clear what we are talking about. We are talking about water and sanitation programmes which do so much to improve the quality of life of people in the townships and rural areas. We would endanger the SADC HIV/Aids Programme, regarded by all as being one of the most efficient the European Union operates. We risk jeopardising economic developments in the Eastern Cape and work in the Eastern Cape with the Ministry of Education. We risk jeopardising support for social housing programmes in South Africa. In this Parliament we have to make every effort now, as the rapporteur has said, to make it possible for this money to move as speedily and as efficiently as it can to the people of South Africa. The European Parliament position is, and always has been, realistic and morally right. However I must express my grave concern about the possible misery which would be caused were we to delay. As usual we should make it very clear that we in the Development Committee regard the budget figure that we have here before us, as purely indicative. We see it as a reference point only, not as anything that we will not seek to change when it comes to our committee. It is the first year of the South Africa Trade Agreement. How does it look in our first year if we do not fully commit the funding and meet our obligations? We must continue our commitment to supporting South African efforts to overcome the legacy of apartheid. To do that we have to have a regulation sooner rather than later. I hope that after we have heard the Commissioner we will have the opportunity to discuss his views further and to discuss the very deeply worrying issues which delay on this regulation raises. Mr President, as the Commissioner knows, the European Parliament very much welcomes the analysis that she has given us here today. However, what I feel is missing, Commissioner, is a lack of a clear assurance or guarantee about the protection of EDF funds within the Community budget. One thing that was also missing from your remarks was a reference to the need to have the agreement of the ACP to this arrangement. I would not expect the ACP countries to accept any situation that they felt gave them less leverage and less influence over decision-making as regards the EDF. I would like to know how you intend to ring-fence. You said you were not quite ready to do this, but the diversion of EDF money towards other European priorities is something that we have been used to in the past. We have experienced it and we are very keen to avoid that happening in new circumstances. Commissioner, would you consider a new additional heading for development in the financial perspectives? Also, would you be prepared to suggest this in the proposal on the next financial perspectives for the end of 2003? . British Labour MEPs had to vote against the amended report due to serious concerns about duplicating and complicating legislation, a reduction in resources for Asia, and benchmarking. The Parliament has an agreed position in favour of simpler rules and procedures, and it makes no sense for a technical, legal regulation to do the work of Country Strategy Papers and National Indicative Programmes. Creating two separate regulations will undermine the objective to streamline and clarify development policy programmes and, as the world's poorest region, transferring funds from Asia to Latin America cannot be justified. We could not support Amendments 1 and 2 to split the Regulation; 93 and 94 to reduce funding for Asia and increase funding for Latin America; 3, 18, 56 and 97 on benchmarks and a Bi-Regional Solidarity Fund for Latin America (creating a cumbersome and wasteful extra layer of bureaucracy); or 18, 28, 29, 56, 57, 95, 96, and 99 which create a rigid framework for programmes intended for poverty reduction. It remains to be seen what the implication of today's vote will be in the Commission and Council. The result could be that we have not served the interests of either Asia or Latin America. – Mr President, I also wish to congratulate the rapporteur. Clearly from the comments that we have heard already, the global institutional arrangements intended to underpin food security, as recent experiences testify very clearly, need serious attention. There is actually a loss of confidence in all forms of food aid except for emergency food aid. Internationally negotiated commitments to tackle issues of food security problems are not, in my view, properly understood. There is still an institutional resistance to radical reform of food aid policies. This is summed up by the kind of tinkering on the edges which characterises the re-negotiated Convention. The institutional Treaty-based arrangements for food aid are, in my view, still somewhat outdated and created with a world in mind where food aid was assumed to be a major feature of development and of humanitarian assistance and relief. The arguments have already been made here this evening for compensatory financing, for aid to agricultural development, for export credits and for local sourcing; all of these criteria, all of these priorities are very well understood. Something people have not mentioned is that the European Union has actually gone further towards translating the understanding of these issues into action than any of the other donors, particularly for instance the United States. We welcome the fact that in our food aid budget line we target food security issues and that budget provides financial assistance for food security. That is very important indeed. Clearly the challenge is to meet the needs of the hungry in the most locally sensitive way. We need to see foodstock plans based on knowledge and transparency. We need to have the knowledge of where the foodstocks are, we need to assess where they are and we need to access those foodstuffs when we have identified them. We also need to monitor all foodstocks that are held in the world, both public foodstocks and private foodstocks. Finally, in the context of the WTO debates, we also need to see a guarantee of the legal right of all human beings to access to food. This will mean, and many of us said this in Seattle in the debates, that we would require  a food security clause in any future WTO agreements on agriculture. This would represent very real progress in the attempts that we make to tackle food security. – I certainly welcome what you say about Article 35. I have also tabled an amendment expressing great concern about this idea of inexperienced European volunteers going into what are often very complex humanitarian situations, where some degree of sensitivity – as you suggest – is needed; a degree of sensitivity that they would not have, which would be dangerous both for them and for others involved in such exercises. The issue of budgetisation again is something of which this Parliament's Committee on Development and Cooperation is, as you know, in favour, and has been for some time. Would you support my view that, in order to protect the European Development Fund, we should ringfence EDF money when it is budgetised in the way that we have suggested, to ensure that it is protected for ACP countries and does not slip into other areas of the world? Mr President, this debate on Mrs Morgantini's report is about the link that we need to make between trade liberalisation, economic growth and poverty. It is about whether trade and development run in one direction. Often there are no unequivocal conclusions about whether or not that is the case. However, I would argue, as I am sure many speakers in the debate would argue, that trade liberalisation is not a panacea for generating the kind of self-sustaining growth and poverty reduction that we want to see as a result of our policies – we are talking about coherence here – let alone the objective that we have of promoting human development. If developing countries are to benefit from trade then the first thing that has to happen, as the report makes very clear, is that developing country producers have to get a fair price for what they produce for their exports, and that those prices reflect the value of their exports. Since the 1970s deteriorating trade terms have cost developing countries a great deal. Many ACP countries have lost more than seven times the amount they get in development aid. For them, as the Commissioner knows, the central problem is the shortage of competitively-priced exports. But in cases where export capacity exists, in countries like South Africa, Mauritius, Ghana, Botswana and certain Caribbean countries, then one does see export growth as a result. But they also insist – and this is the case not just with Cancún, which most people will talk about, but in the EPA negotiations – that duty-free access to EU markets is simply not a sufficient spur to increase exports. They are aware, as we are, of the importance of addressing supply-side constraints, the need for adjustments and the need to meet the associated costs for developing countries. We need to understand – and I want to make a strong case for this – that capacity constraints are an essential part of how we deal with the ability of developing countries to tackle the trade issues that they face at this time, in bilateral, regional, and multilateral negotiations. They have a huge number of negotiations to deal with. Again, Commissioner Nielson is as aware of this, as am I, insofar as ACP countries are concerned. In all of these negotiations there is a substantial and obvious imbalance between the parties negotiating in terms of economic size, political power and the sheer capacity to deal with the issue. I saw that insofar as the South African negotiations were concerned. Agricultural subsidies have an enormous, crushing effect on developing country producers and markets. I hope that at Cancún, although Commissioner Lamy denies that it is a central issue, we will realise that for developing countries it certainly is. We are a long way from achieving the millennium development goals. Two years after the declaration of a Doha development round, next week in Cancún we have an opportunity to make globalisation work for the many rather than the few. I am sure you will agree with me, Commissioner, that we cannot afford to fail. – Mr President, I congratulate Mr Titley on his report, as others have done earlier today. As many of us said at the time in 1998, we saw the code of conduct as a very important first step towards having common and responsible arms export policies. But we saw it as a beginning and not by any means the end of the process. It is important to recognise that, at a time when our European concerns can seem somewhat abstract and rhetorical, controlling weapons is a real way in which Member States' governments, the Commission and Parliament can demonstrate the positive benefits of being able to work together here for a common approach to arms control. Now we have to look at how we can further strengthen that code of conduct and in particular make it legally binding. We see dealers buying Cold War weapons in Eastern Europe, flying them into African war zones and creating terrible suffering. It is important to develop ways in which EU candidate countries can be brought into the information exchange and into consultation mechanisms. Candidate countries should also be involved in discussions on the further development and strengthening of the code. Secondly, it is important that we reach a common understanding of what the code's criteria actually mean in practice. The acid test of the code will be whether it deters undercutting. There should be in-depth multilateral consultations before one country can grant a licence that another has rejected. In a democratic Europe we have a right to know which countries are selling arms and where. Therefore all Member States have to publish arms reports. What we would like to see is a consolidated European report which should be published and scrutinised by this Parliament. All proposed transactions organised by arms brokers should be subject to the licence approval of national governments and all countries should require all arms broking activities to be licensed. Finally, arms fuel conflicts all over the world. We urge our governments in Europe to tighten up the controls on the movements of these lethal weapons. We are now finally making good an omission dating from 1993, the year when the working time directive was adopted. This legislation represented definite progress but at the same time its application excluded six million workers. This included personnel involved in the transport sector, but also in work at sea (offshore workers, in particular, and “doctors in training”). It was no longer acceptable to exclude these workers in so far as the nature of their work was no different to that of the workers covered by the terms of the directive. The proposal under discussion today is intended to rectify the current situation. There have been fierce discussions, especially on the question of the “offshore” sector and doctors in training. Regarding the latter, the European Commission’s initial proposal was that the application of the directive should be extended to doctors in training over a transitional period of seven years. We demanded that this period should be reduced to four years, with a maximum weekly working time of fifty-four hours (subject to negotiation) during that time. This is the minimum that may be asked if the nature of this profession is taken into account. It is the welfare of these doctors at work, and the health and safety of their patients, which is at stake! This is why the Council’s common position on this, envisaging a nine-year transitional period, would be unacceptable! Regarding offshore workers, we have demanded that working hours may be expressed by an annual figure subject only to collective wage agreements or employer-employee agreements. This condition shall have to be reconsidered taking into account the health and safety of workers within a period of five years after the directive comes into force. The organisation of working time and the improved reconciliation of working life and private life which it affords must be of benefit to the majority. This is the condition on which we may start talking about Social Europe. It is more than time for this. Mr President, the Commissioner's commitment on this issue is not in doubt at all. The Commissioner will be aware of the letter that the President-in-Office of the ACP sent in May 2003 to the chair of the TRIPs Council, raising a number of issues. I believe it was a very good letter and one that covered the issues and concerns very well. The letter, however, refers to the EU proposals, and says that the EU is making an unacceptable attempt to restrict the ACP's use of compulsory licensing. It also mentions the references to the WHO and so on, with which the ACP countries are not happy. They are not happy with any suggestion that seems to deviate from the Doha Declaration, which sets no limitations of this kind. The application of the agreement on national emergencies is something the ACP and other developing countries are not happy with. Commissioner, I know that you are making every effort to bring the opposing sides together, but are you not putting yourself in danger of being seen as deviating from the content and understanding of the consensus which was so valiantly achieved in the Doha Declaration? In the letter, the ACP countries ask whether there is a straightforward and easy way to implement a solution. Do you think, Commissioner, that it is at all possible for you to answer the ACP and say ‘yes, it is possible for us to find a solution and implement it with reasonable ease’? – Madam President, I know you, like me, will share the concern that this week offers no opportunity to express our interest at what is occurring in Burma and, in particular, the sacrifice and suffering of Aung San Suu Kyi who is our Sakharov Prize winner. There has been a troika visit to Burma. I would urge you, President, as one of your first acts, to support the proposal that a political dialogue takes place urgently with Aung San Suu Kyi and her political party. – Mr President, I thank the Commission for that response but I did raise the issue of the elements of the support package for the BLNS countries on which it was promised that a conference would take place in Lesotho. These countries are still waiting for any kind of confirmation of this conference and have been told by the Commission that it would take place before the signing of the agreement. That clearly will not happen, but we do need some reassurance, because they feel that the Commission is letting them down on this point. Mr President, I have just returned from a meeting with President Chissano of Mozambique, with whom you and President Prodi met this morning. One of the issues raised by President Chissano was the concern that ACP countries have about the prospect of enlargement and the impact of it on them in terms of the likelihood that there will be less resources for them. They are also concerned about the level of commitment to development cooperation which they might expect from the new countries coming into the Union. We in the Committee on Development and Cooperation, and the ACP Joint Parliamentary Assembly, would like reassurance that we can expect the same level of commitment from the new Commission as we have from the current Commission. Secondly, my question relates to the prospect for the Relex family of directorates under the new Commission. We do not want to see our development objectives and priorities subsumed by foreign policy strategies, interests and priorities. We very much want to see a Development Commissioner with a remit which covers our development work across the world. The EU is, after all, the world's major donor in this regard; it has an enormous role to play that I hope will not become secondary in the future. – I could list a number of NGOs and others who have, in fact, waited 6 000 days and are still waiting. For example there are landmine clearance NGOs and ‘Article 19’ – which the Commissioner will be aware of in the UK – who have had problems with lost documents, and with a whole litany of complete chaos. Is the Commissioner aware of the huge tensions which exist between the external DGs and the SCR now because of the confusion about tasks, because of the staffing difficulties that DG VIII has, for instance, because of their staff being moved to the SCR? There are underlying tensions which your answer does not address. The answer is somewhat complacent about a real crisis situation in the SCR. That is added to by the fact that the RELEX DGs are being reorganised. That causes even more chaos for the very essential work that we are engaged in with countries outside the European Union. – Mr President, we made a decision earlier that we would have an urgency on Zimbabwe. However, since this Parliament has taken an extremely principled view on this issue, it would be appropriate if you were to find the time to write to the Council to urge it to make a strong statement on the situation, which is in danger of escalating this week into a final showdown between the democratic movements in Zimbabwe and the regime led by Mugabe. There is enormous mass action going on, there has been tear-gassing of people, at least one person has been killed. Morgan Tsvangirai has been arrested as has his deputy Welshman Ncube. I would ask you, Mr President, to express regret that the Council made a statement very early this morning, which was extremely weak. Certainly, it was not unequivocal in any sense in the way that it dealt with the situation in Zimbabwe. We need strong action and since the G8 is meeting and President Mbeki is there, we need to see our representatives in the G8 urging Mr Mbeki and other African leaders to distance themselves from the kind of actions we are seeing in Zimbabwe at this time. – Mr President, the tragedy, as the Commissioner indicated, is that we still have a deadlock over changes that might deliver the real objectives we identified in Doha, which would allow countries – as others have said – to have the manufacturing capacity to export cheaper generic medicines to countries in need. The reality is that developing countries will not accept the United States' insistence on restricting exports to those who treat only a handful of infectious diseases. I fear also that, even if the United States concedes, the reforms will be wrapped up in red tape and have some TRIPS-plus features. We should now consider a fresh start that is likely to produce a workable solution, although I accept, regrettably, that this is unlikely. The danger is that this whole issue could drag on until Cancun. If this were to happen, then the TRIPS issues could then again be used as a bargaining chip in the negotiations on agriculture, services and the new issues. Is that something you see as likely, Commissioner? Surely it would be disastrous if developing countries were expected to do trade-offs in the only real area where they secured such a major victory at Doha. The spirit and reality of the development round is surely called into question if developing countries have the clear perception – and they do now, as Mrs McNally said – that commercial interest is being put before public health. That was not the intention at Doha. You understand, Commissioner, as others have said, that these are issues of justice and equity and that the concept of the development round would become a sham if the industrialised world is seen as, or perceived to be, reneging on the position that was so satisfactorily agreed at Doha. – Mr President, my question relates to the heading of the Rule 50 resolution on Burma which is 'Myanmar'. I would like to ask why and how the services of this Parliament have now decided to call Burma 'Myanmar'. That is the term used by the military regime in that country, not that used by Aung San Suu Kyi, our Sakharov Prize winner, and it is never used by the President of this Parliament. That was certainly the case yesterday. I ask that it be corrected and that we return to calling the country Burma, which is its proper name. – Commissioner, thank you for the enormous support and commitment you have made to Wales at a very difficult time with the job losses in the steel industry. I was very interested, Commissioner, to hear that you have met Members and officials from the National Assembly of Wales and I wondered whether you had been given any idea of the timescales that are envisaged before any suggestions for programmes are made. Secondly, Commissioner, my Labour Welsh colleague and I wrote to you last week inviting you to come to Wales to see first-hand what the problems are, what needs to be done and also to have an opportunity to meet some of the key people in the National Assembly and other areas. So, Commissioner, I very much hope, although I do not expect an answer now, that you will look seriously at that request and that we will see you in Wales before too long. Mr President, I think we should establish from the outset that the reasons why this lucrative illegal trade is flourishing are exactly the same as those at the root of both the illegal narcotics trade and of illegal arms trading. Analysis of these activities demands a better understanding of the contribution which, as the Commissioner said, conflict and weak governance in particular make to this problem, and we in the European Union, as donors, should perhaps be more serious about supporting conservation and biodiversity projects. Running alongside this, the efforts we make on conflict prevention and the peace facility proposed for the African Union, etc. will play their part in addressing some of the concerns raised here today. This is an issue which has been regularly debated in the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly and which has consistently received the support of our ACP parliamentary colleagues. They tell us, and we have had discussions with them, about the importance – also emphasised by the Commissioner – their governments must attach to the priority of making sustainable management and conservation of natural resources a clear part of their national indicative programmes. That is something in which we have a role to play in the JPA, and in the Committee on Development and Cooperation and elsewhere, because, unless governments make this a priority, I am afraid we are whistling in the wind. It must also be said that bushmeat provides a major source of protein. In some parts of Nigeria, up to 84% of protein is obtained from bushmeat, which plays a significant part in people's lives. Where access to wildlife is restricted, people will have to adapt and continue to adapt in ways that entail even greater risks. It is much better to talk about controlling the trade than to suggest we stamp it out. If we talk about stamping out the illegal trade in bushmeat, all we will do is drive it underground and make it much more difficult to deal with. The importance of bushmeat in the livelihoods of poor people has never been assessed. We have made a lot of pronouncements this afternoon, but there has been no clear assessment of the importance of bushmeat in people's livelihoods. I would end by saying that better management of the trade might contribute in no small way to our objective of meeting poverty eradication targets. – Mr President, just a couple of small points at the outset: clearly the Seattle Ministerial Conference failed to agree on a new round because developing countries refused to proceed with trade liberalisation. They made it clear that they did not feel that their concerns about the implementation of the Uruguay Round had been met and therefore they were not prepared to go any further. They were insisting, as they continue to do – as you know, Commissioner – on implementation. Secondly, we need in this Parliament to be much more aware of the need to monitor international obligations, in particular since no reference has been made here today to the ACP-EU Cotonou Agreement and its agricultural trade protocols. The EU must be much more sensitive to these concerns than it has been in the past, though I pay tribute to the Commissioner, especially as regards access to markets. Now I want to touch briefly on the rather shadowy side of globalisation which is typified for me by access to medicines and the clear need for a review of TRIPs. Eleven million people will die of preventable diseases this year. In Zambia, treatment of one member of a family for pneumonia will take up the family's entire monthly budget. This is of deep concern. As you are aware, the pharmaceutical companies have taken the South African Government to court about its Medicines Act of 1997. This act would allow parallel importing and would authorise the genetic production of patented medicines for the government's non-profit, non-commercial use. Four million people are HIV-infected in that country and the South African Government believes it has a constitutional duty to do this. Would the Commissioner agree with me that the TRIPs is neutral on parallel imports and actually allows for compulsory licensing? And would he agree with me that there should be a reduction in patent protection, reinforced health safeguards and a ban on the threatened use of trade sanctions? – Mr President, may I thank the Commissioner for his answer. Would you confirm, Commissioner, that the Coreper GSP Working Group has been postponed for the second time? Is that because they are waiting for a revised proposal from you and for the impact studies? Secondly, you talked about the spirit of Cotonou being honoured. That is not the view of the ACP trade ministers who met this week, who said that they would expect the European Commission to honour existing agreements. What they feel, Commissioner, is that Cotonou was very carefully negotiated by the ACP and that within five months, almost before the ink is dry, there are proposals without any consultation. Of course, you had consultation after the event, but not before, which is part of the agreement under Cotonou, as you know, as is the need for joint impact studies to be undertaken. Thirdly, Commissioner, would you agree with me that vulnerable small island economies, particularly of course in the Caribbean, who are dependent on certain commodities like bananas, sugar and rice, should deserve to be a special case? – Mr President, this is refreshing – the fact that the European Union is acknowledging that there are problems but that we have solutions. Commissioner Nielson will recall that a couple of months ago I suggested that it might be the case that he could become an emperor without clothes. Is it not the case now that this proposal, taking away so much from DG Development as it does, is likely to make my prediction come true? Secondly, at the end of what Commissioner Patten was saying, I think he reiterated what he was quoted as saying in "The Times" this morning where he said that Member States should back his plans with resources or cut aid. I have to say, Commissioners, that I find this a deeply worrying and dangerous statement and likely to be taken at its face value by Member States and not in the way that you suggest. I would very much appreciate clarification of those two questions by one or other Commissioner. – Mr President, I appreciate that wide-ranging coverage of the issues by Mr Corrie. I would like to concentrate on my view that poverty eradication in Africa must begin with children and the realisation of children’s rights. The Cairo summit will be followed up by another forum in Dakar on basic education. The need for basic education is the single most important cause of global poverty. Therefore, we need to ensure that girls in particular have equal access at least to educational advantage. We can see that education will deliver, it will stimulate the economy, it will offer opportunities to control population and increase health awareness. Dakar is an opportunity to deliver on internationally agreed targets. The EU should put its political will behind universal primary education by the year 2015. Clearly commitments made a decade ago have not materialised. Africa is falling deeper into mass illiteracy and poverty and being further marginalised from mainstream developments in the economic and democratic fields. In sub-Saharan Africa more children are out of school now than a decade ago. 40 million African children today are not attending school. One third of the classrooms in Africa do not even have a blackboard. They have no toilets. 70% of their schools do not have any clean water. Teachers are under-qualified, often unqualified, and they struggle without pencils, exercise books or blackboards, often trying to teach children who are simply too hungry to listen or concentrate. Julius Nyrere, one of Africa’s most famous teachers, in those post-independence, optimistic days, said education is not a way of escaping poverty, it is a way of fighting it. Some of you may be aware that Julius Nyrere spent his spare time translating Shakespeare into Swahili. But that man’s wonderful dreams were lost. He lived to see one third of African men illiterate and two thirds of African women. I urge the Commission and the Council to make the link between poverty eradication and basic education. The benefits for us all will be seen in increased child life expectancy, cuts in population growth and improvements in farm production. We have the blueprints and I urge all of those with the political will to take action, to deliver for the children of Africa. – Mr President, I will begin by endorsing what my colleague Mr Fava has said. Throughout our negotiations on this issue we have had very good cooperation. He has always understood the importance of a strong development perspective since half of all the EU observer missions have been in developing countries. And the European Union, as a multinational organisation of fifteen developed democracies, clearly has a duty as well as a significant role to play in all the global efforts to promote democratisation, sustainable development and peaceful progress. I would like to welcome this communication from the Commission which provides the necessary clarity on these issues and a real focus on how the European Union should proceed and probably do these things better in the future. The main point, as Mr Fava has said, is that simply holding periodic elections is not enough to guarantee democracy in any circumstances. Elections are not just about a snapshot on a day; what is at stake is how we cover the whole electoral process. This is the strong emphasis in the report that we are looking at this evening. It is essential that any verdict given by the European Union does not inadvertently legitimise, endorse or give any kind of support to any kind of dubious electoral process. The phrase "free and fair" should be avoided: it is loaded vocabulary which is always ruthlessly targeted by the media in any post-election circumstances. As the European Union's representative in Cambodia I was very well aware of how difficult that phraseology was. It is also very important for us to emphasise the need to support domestic observer teams. These are the key people in developing countries who understand social, political and cultural issues which we, when we parachute in to observe elections, might not be aware of. On the Parliament: we recommend that Parliament sets up an election coordinating group able to provide much faster and more efficient responses. I also would like to ask the Commission what resources, particularly staffing, will be dedicated to the important task of delivering the aims of this very important communication. Finally, the European Parliament is a central player in the Union's efforts to cover elections. Our credibility is at stake here and I welcome the opportunity offered to us by the Commission to define a very clear and shared vision of Europe's role in the democratic process in countries all over the world. Mr President, I should like to thank the Commission and, again, the rapporteur for the excellent and often very difficult task that she has undertaken. I believe that it has to be the task of this Parliament to be in favour of simpler rules and procedures and also to ensure that we have an understanding of the need for timely and effective decision-making in programming. That has to be at the heart of the whole reform process that we keep challenging and asking for. And yet, in this debate, we hear over and over again calls for us to complicate and make more difficult the procedures, programmes and issues the Commission has to deal with. In addition, as far as I am concerned, it makes absolutely no sense, when we are dealing with a technical and legal regulation, to be suggesting that it should be doing the work of country strategy papers in the countries that we work with or the work of the national indicative programmes that we work with. That, again, is a total contradiction of what a regulation that has a financial and a legal basis is meant to be doing. In my opinion, to create two separate regulations simply does not make sense and would undermine the efforts that we are making to streamline and clarify our programmes. Mr Salafranca talked about credibility, and our credibility as a Parliament is at stake here if we do not understand the issues that we are dealing with. Our strategy has to be to work well with Latin America and with Asia and apply the same principles which are at the heart of our development programme. There is no justification either for any argument in favour of transferring funds from Asia to Latin America, especially when we know about the desperate poverty of 800 million people in Asia. The Commission's communication on development policy in 2000 called for us to refocus on poverty eradication. Therefore, it is totally inappropriate for us now, in 2003, to call for a regulation which will just separate two parts which work very well together and we will duplicate, replicate and complicate our efforts to eradicate poverty. I urge Parliament to be realistic and constructive so that our essential work in both these regions can continue and can grow. – Mr President, may I also welcome the Presidency-in-Office. I appreciate the answer but I do have to ask, with the knowledge that of course Aung San Suu Kyi has been under virtual house arrest now for about 120 days: how can you suggest that a prisoner is able to carry out a meaningful dialogue or negotiation with her jailer? That is my first question. Secondly, should not she and the NLD actually be offered basic freedoms before we are prepared to embrace the SPDC in this way? You say that the troika will have access to areas and to as many individuals as it wants. Are you imposing conditions on this troika visit, which would mean that they are absolutely obligated to give that kind of access? Finally, just one last sceptical comment: in 1994 Aung San Suu Kyi did have some negotiation with the SLORC, as they were called then, and they said all the time that she was being far too inflexible, this woman is impossible to deal with because she keeps asking us to respect the results of the 1990 election. I wonder whether you are concerned that they might be still playing games with the European Union and the international community and they will again say: "look, this woman is impossible." – Mr President, as others have already suggested, the facts speak for themselves. Most of the 640 million people who live in the Least Developed Countries, just over one-tenth of the world's entire population, are struggling to survive on less than two dollars a day. Their average life expectancy is 50 years. Half of them are illiterate and two-thirds of the world's children, most of them little girls, are not in any kind of primary education. LDCs have seen a severe drop in capital flows, down 45% since 1990; and official development assistance continues to go down, having fallen by 30% since 1990. As the President-in-Office has said, the HIPC initiative is yielding very slow results and coming in too late. Too many LDCs have totally unsustainable debt burdens. Many LDCs, such as Zambia for example, where I was recently, are still spending twice as much on debt servicing as they are on health and education. This UN Conference therefore has to be about a new deal for LDCs; one that promotes pro-poor economic growth, poverty reduction and sustainable development. There will be, as Mr Lamy knows, a thematic session on trade, which I know he will expect to be used by the LDCs as a platform in preparation for the Qatar ministerial meeting. I am sure they will give ample evidence of the fall in commodity prices – which have fallen by 30% from 1998 to 1999 – and we will need to acknowledge that globalisation and liberalisation have had very mixed results. Everything but arms represents significant progress. I wonder whether Commissioner Lamy would be able to predict that other countries such as the US or Japan might be prepared to follow his excellent lead. I think I see him smile, and this might present us with some difficulties. At this point it would be interesting to hear from Commissioner Lamy which LDC countries in particular are likely to export arms, as the title of this initiative is a bit perplexing. Finally, this Conference is about analysing what we can do that is deliverable for the least developed countries when millions of people are unable to treat pneumonia, diarrhoea, TB or AIDS; when you have no medicines to give to your sick child or your dying wife; when your child is at school under a tree trying to learn to write its name with a twig. Mr President, many Members will be aware that there are several hundred Eritrean demonstrators outside our building this evening. They are here because of their concern that the Algiers Agreement – which was a settlement of the boundaries between Ethiopia and Eritrea – has not been agreed by Ethiopia. On behalf of Mr Cox, the President of Parliament, I have received a petition signed by 22 000 Eritreans living in the European Union and in Norway. Both countries are to be urged to accept the provisions of the Algiers Agreement, which was based upon the decision of the Boundary Commission. Ethiopia is reluctant to agree to that decision at this time. Mr President, would you please ensure that a letter is written to the Ethiopian Government to urge it to respect that decision, in order to restore peace between the two countries after what has been a bloody and terrible war. – Madam President, as others have said, I welcome Mr Schwaiger’s excellent work on what was a very complex set of issues to deal with. I also particularly welcome the fact that in his text he describes the forthcoming WTO round as a development round. It is a fact, of course, that of the 134 members of the WTO, two-thirds are developing countries, with another 32 in a queue waiting to join. But it remains the case that the exchange of trade commitments favours the bigger traders. They have much more to offer and their negotiating power is far greater. Many developing countries feel that free trade has not in fact been as free for them. Markets in the North remain restricted for many, as the most important developing country exports seek access. Accelerating globalisation is, of course, a fact of life. It nevertheless demands analysis and an acknowledgement that international trade is complex and is characterised by protectionism and by a system which fails to address the implications of subsidised agriculture for the poor. While we need, of course, to support the agricultural sector in the EU, and that is made clear in Mr Schwaiger’s report, we also have to recognise the need for developing economies beyond reaching markets to have access to food security so that people have enough to eat. And I hope that amendments along those lines will be accepted. The EU already has binding commitments to developing countries. These commitments, alongside international development targets, should be a central focus at Seattle. We are now, Mr Lamy, at a critical stage in the negotiations for a successor agreement to Lomé IV and we will soon be embarking on complex discussions on trade relations with 71 ACP countries. It is therefore very important now that we are negotiating a multilateral trade framework which respects that very critical relationship with the developing world that we continue to say that we will honour our obligations to the ACP. I would also urge the Commission and Member States to pursue a WTO binding commitment to allow all exports from least-developed countries duty-free access to European markets by 2003. There is also an urgent need to make sure that small and vulnerable states – landlocked states – are protected in future deals that are made. A Director-General of the WTO very recently said that the WTO must be an organisation where the little guy not only has a say but feels that he is protected and defended. I hope, Mr Lamy, that you will subscribe to that very important sentiment. – Mr President, as others have said, many promises have been made on debt relief but in fact very few have been delivered. After all the headlines that we heard at Cologne last year, less than $13 billion of the $100 billion promised has actually been cancelled and as the Commission and the Council have told us, contributions to the HIPC Trust Fund are still way below target. As the Commissioner rightly says, the burden deserves to be shared. The fact is that despite a $1 trillion budget surplus over 10 years, President Clinton is not able to squeeze $210 million for HIPC out of Congress. That is an appalling fact for us to take on board. It is also the case that we are still waiting for the World Bank and the IMF to come up with something similar to the European Union. All G7 countries have promised some form of 100% debt cancellation, but many of them are very slow and disinclined to do it in the way that we would like. Also, to qualify for debt relief, each country has to complete a long and often contradictory ‘HIPC’ process, and only 5 countries have so far managed to go through the hoops that they are being asked to go through. So far, the United Kingdom is the only country that has offered 100% debt cancellation. France, Germany and Japan only include pre-cut-off debts and so ignore a significant portion of debt. Japan, incidentally, ties its debt relief to responsibility to buy Japanese exports. On Mozambique, for instance, it is very significant that the IMF, the World Bank and the Paris Club only postponed payments from Mozambique and then actually lent more money. So, what I would say, finally, is that we in this Parliament urge all the creditors to stop delaying and to start working really hard towards fulfilling full debt cancellation for the poorest countries. Of course, I agree with all my colleagues, the poorest countries who fulfil the criteria of delivering debt relief to those countries that show a commitment to social sector and human development support. – Mr President, for me – not a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development – it is quite extraordinary that the effect of these proposals on developing country producers and markets has barely received any attention in this debate. Therefore, my contribution may seem somewhat esoteric in the context of what I have been hearing this afternoon. How can this major issue, which is a key issue for Cancun, and its implications for developing countries have been so marginalised here in the debate? As a member of the Committee on Development and Cooperation and of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly, I can confirm, of course, that European agricultural policies are currently in direct contradiction with the EU's declared rural development policies for developing countries. The debate, therefore, should and  reflect the need to assess the impact of these reforms on the EU's declared poverty eradication objectives and our sustainable development objectives for the world's poorest countries. Farm subsidies cost those poor countries about USD 50 billion a year in lost agricultural exports. Today we had the G8's very weak statement on trade and reform. We expected at least a moratorium on export subsidies and an end to those domestic supports which to me and to many others are simply hidden subsidies. Let us not only assess what is perceived to be best for European farmers and producers, let us at last and at least look as if we are prepared in our deliberations to consider the people on much poorer continents than our own. I urge the Committee on Agriculture and others who quite rightly care about European citizens and farmers to take a much broader view of the context of agriculture in the world. – Mr President, could I ask the Commissioner whether he considers that this evaluation risks putting structures in place which actually endanger the possibility of us of being able to react in a crisis as quickly and as effectively as he suggests we should? secondly, Commissioner, let us take for instance a case study such as Sierra Leone: You talked about the clear distinction between humanitarian aid and long-term assistance. Could you give me your analysis of what stage one part of your work will take over from the other in the case of Sierra Leone? – Mr President, on a point of order, you are aware that the Joint Parliamentary Assembly is due to begin next Monday in the Hemicycle in Brussels. I understand that the Conference of Presidents has sent quite a strongly worded letter to the Belgian authorities concerning the prospect of two members of the Zimbabwean delegation being on the visa ban list. I understand that visas have now been granted to those two ministers from Zanu-PF and they are due to arrive in Brussels tomorrow. Mr President, could you give us some indication what action the European Parliament will now take on this very serious matter? – Thank you, Commissioner and I certainly agree with the substance, particularly of the early part of your answer. I welcome the fact that NGOs are funded through the exclusion and anti-discrimination action programmes. But I have one specific question: why are only eight or nine NGOs, as far as my information is concerned, funded through these two lines? Secondly, NGOs feel that they are being unfairly denied access to core funding. My information is that they are being pushed into project funding and 18 environmental NGOs, for instance, are receiving from the Commission funding towards their running costs. It occurs to me that two years after the 1998 budget freeze, it might be time now for the Commission to respond to what are very clear needs from the European-based social NGOs for core funding to cover their running costs. – You mentioned the Cotonou Agreement. Are you aware that the Cotonou Agreement also expresses a commitment to undertaking impact studies which might affect non-LDC countries as well as to have consultation? Neither of those two things has happened. It is not good enough to have consultation after the events. Are you aware that apart from sugar producers in Europe, concerns are being expressed, especially by countries that are commodity-dependent – particularly in the Caribbean – on sugar, bananas and rice, as you have mentioned? Mr President, my congratulations and thanks to the rapporteur. First of all, no-one here this evening should claim that budgetisation is a silver bullet for the ACP for the delivery of the EDF. However, at the outset we should say that budgetisation would mean that we would no longer stash away hundreds of millions of euro, as has happened under the EDF – money meant for countries which for various reasons were not efficient spenders. It is the case that we should not underestimate, as Mrs Sandbæk has said, the ACP's concerns, but it is wrong for Mrs Sandbæk to say that there is no dialogue on budgetisation. It is happening, the ACP are preparing documents and there is clear discussion going on. For some of the issues that have been raised, guarantees must be offered that resource levels for the ACP will be maintained and increased, and that means a five-year financial framework has to be jointly agreed with the ACP. We can fairly assume now that there is agreement between Parliament, the Commission and the ACP that there has to be ring-fencing over a five-year financial framework. The suggestion I made some time ago that we should have a sub-heading has not found favour. We might still choose to push that with the Commission, but certainly ring-fencing is something that is agreed. I believe that as things stand the ACP can now hold its own in the budgets on the basis that it is by no means the worst-performing region that we deal with under external relations. It is quite condescending to presume or to suggest that the ACP could not manage that relationship under the budgets. Concerns are raised about multiannual funding of projects. Currently under the budget the so-called sunset clause applies and there will undoubtedly be pressure on the ACP to complete over a three-year timescale. But I personally have no difficulty with a three-year timescale. Very often I have been more worried than I like to say about projects which have ceased to be effective, which needed to be terminated and closed down, so a three-year period is something that we can work with quite easily. The ACP is concerned about how co-management will be effective and about the role of the NAOs. It seems to me that the main priority for the ACP is not just about how they maintain administration of ACP aid, but how they maintain ownership of their own priorities and their own development strategies. There should be no fundamental problem with the Commission delegation signing contracts – why should that be a problem, because that would certainly speed up the process? I have seen far too many NAOs drowning under tenders and contracts. Far better for them to have the wherewithal to deal with development priorities. Finally, the principles of partnership are at the heart of the Cotonou Agreement. We want the ACP to be the centre of the dialogue and, as others have said, the Joint Parliamentary Assembly has an important role to play and assists us in focusing the Commission's mind on the views of the ACP and of ACP parliamentarians. – Mr President, I should like to begin by commending both the Commission communication and Mr Khanbhai's report. Access to medicines will be a key issue at Doha in a few weeks' time simply because developing countries feel hugely disadvantaged by rules which are applied universally, even though countries are of unequal strength, both economically and institutionally. They will be calling clearly for the TRIPS Agreement to be applied fairly. The global spotlight, therefore, will be firmly on the role played by pharmaceutical companies in the HIV/AIDS catastrophe. Only 0.1% of the 25 million people living with HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa have access to lifesaving drugs or indeed for the drugs for the opportunistic infections such as meningitis, drug-resistant diarrhoea, oral thrush and those other infections. There are now alternatives – cheap copies of life-saving medicines. In Brazil, Thailand and India their laws allow them to ignore drug patents. In India for instance, companies are marketing a drug for the treatment of that drug-resistant diarrhoea, at 1.8% of the price charged in Pakistan where only the patented version can be bought. Four years ago Brazil waived the patent rights on HIV drugs and allowed local companies to produce cheap versions. Prices in Brazil have fallen by 80% and they have halved the number of deaths from HIV/AIDS. I come to the point made by Mr Khanbhai on research and development. If so much commitment is made by the pharmaceutical companies to R[amp]D, how come they actually spend twice as much on marketing as they do on research and development? According to the UNDP's recent figures less than 10% of global spending on health research addresses 90% of the global disease burden. Of the 1223 new drugs marketed between 1975 and 1996, only 13 of those drugs were developed to treat tropical diseases and only 4 of those 13 were the result of the pharmaceutical industry's research. And why is it that they charge more for the same drugs in Africa, than they charge in the northern hemisphere? I would argue that these facts very clearly speak for themselves. They have – and this is a very important point to make and it will be made in Doha – a virtual monopoly which means that they can control prices. They are virtually saying "no" to cheap, affordable generics for very sick people in poor countries. Globalisation is meant to be about freer markets and about increased competition. The big four pharmaceutical companies act like a cartel: they bully developing countries and they deny them their rights to those drugs. During the Uruguay Round they secured agreement on patent rights for 20 years. The TRIPS Agreement was a clear example of the powerful vested interests of the developed world at this time. All this threatens the whole credibility of the World Trade Organisation and any chance we have of believing in the developments at Doha, or if we ever have a new round of fair, multilateral trading systems. There is now a clear need for a clear and new interpretation of TRIPS allowing for the flexibility which clearly exists in that agreement. We need to ensure that it is the interests of poor countries that are put first. This is an issue of fundamental social justice. – Mr President, Commissioner, the answer is, of course, very satisfactory but I wondered if you were aware Commissioner that the strategic policy planning and early warning units in the Commission has 20 staff, 11 of whom are responsible for the Balkans and only one responsible for Africa which is your responsibility. I wonder if you would look at that issue and try to ensure that we have more staff on the ground in these units. Also, are you aware that they depend on annual funding which means that they cannot make long-term planning of the kind that you suggested now, so it is important that the Commission looks at these issues. Secondly, Commissioner, the whole matter of decentralisation to the delegations: will you be ensuring that in the delegations you have members of staff with expertise to deal with conflict prevention and peace building? .–The vote on the Sandbaek report today was a clear endorsement of the need for an urgent response at first reading from the European Parliament to the Regulation on Reproductive and Sexual Health and Rights in Developing Countries. By supporting this Resolution, we have cleared the way for the Commission to fund operations and agencies which focus on the need to reduce infant, child and maternal mortality. We have acknowledged the right which all people have to care and services, and to choose how many children to have and when to have them. We have voted to renew and increase funding to EUR 74.95m. The Commissioner emphasised he could not formally commit the Commission to that figure, but made it clear that this should not deter us from having an agreement at first reading, saying he was confident we would find a solution. We rejected new amendments designed to distort the focus and substance of the Regulation. The Development Committee and Parliament have agreed a text which does no more and no less than was agreed in the Programme for Action of the International Conference on Population and Development held in Cairo in 1994 and the Kay Actions adopted in 1999. – Thank you Commissioner for acknowledging that you understand that there are these perceptions on the part of the ACP negotiators. They could be based upon the fact that your representative said in a recent meeting that the EPA negotiations were not about development, but about negotiating new trading arrangements, and that was the mandate. That might be at the root of the kind of perception they have. The South Africans managed to get agreement that their trade negotiations would be renamed 'trade and development' negotiations. That was a key element in the success of those negotiations. Would you consider renaming? Would that not be an act of good faith with the ACP? There also seems to be resistance to making development an agenda item of the negotiations. Would you confirm whether this is, or is not, the case? Is it then the case that because you are not prepared to have it as an agenda item, that again confirms the perception that you are not willing to consider development as an integral part of these negotiations because you see it as giving the ACP more leverage in the negotiations as they go on. – Mr President, I failed to catch the President's eye this morning. We should not allow this plenary session to pass without paying some attention to the fact that the Nobel laureate and Sakharov Prize winner, Aung San Suu Kyi, is still denied her freedom. It is exactly ten years since she and the National League for Democracy won that election which the dictators proceeded to completely ignore. There has been a whole decade of dictatorship in that country. Next Monday, Aung San Suu Kyi will be 55 years old. It is a very poignant birthday for her. In March, her husband died of cancer. He asked for permission to visit her to say goodbye to his dear wife. The military junta in Burma refused permission for him to see her. These military dictators remain terrified of a small and gentle woman who has no malice, no uniforms or tanks to protect her. She and the people of Burma will not give up. What I am asking today is for the European Parliament to do what she asks. She says: "Please use your liberty to support ours". I ask the President of this Parliament to write to the military junta in Burma to say: stop the human rights abuses, return to democracy and give freedom to Aung San Suu Kyi. Madam President, I should like to say at the outset that I agree with those who have said that we have to look to the future. However, what others have said here today, that we must take stock of what happened, is equally important. My first point is that we should not waver in our continuing commitment to multilateral trade rules. We arrived in Cancún with an extremely overloaded agenda: ministers had enormous difficulty grappling with too many complex, unresolved issues. The process, therefore, is clearly unsustainable. The whole process of those few days was virtually wasted until Saturday when the revised text appeared, to the consternation of developing countries. There was a real sense when we arrived in Cancún – as confirmed by this revised text – that the vision, promise and ambition of Doha was being seriously threatened, because matters of substance on agriculture, cotton and the new issues, which are important to developing countries, simply were not being addressed. We have to acknowledge very clearly what the perception of developing countries is. It is not good enough to come here and say that the developing countries were asking for too much. They should be insulted by the implication that NGOs were able to manipulate and manage their opinions in the way that some have said. In view of the proximity of the December date for the meeting in Geneva, I would like to ask, Commissioner, what kind of bridge-building and confidence-building you are engaged in at this time – having just had a moment to catch your breath after Cancún – to try to ensure that we have some success there? Finally, on the Singapore issues: are you aware, Commissioner, that on Thursday the DTI Minister in the UK said that she would be seeking a meeting with you on the Singapore issues to ensure that you stick to the position that was taken in Cancún and that we will no longer press for negotiations at the WTO on investment and competition? Are you aware that the British Minister said this in the House of Commons and do you expect your mandates to change on the basis of this kind of statement? Madam President, NEPAD and its implementation agency, the African Union, offer, as all of us would agree, no quick fix for the problems of Africa. Fulfilling the promises will not be easy and Africa and, indeed, outsiders such as ourselves, will have to be in this for the long haul. As the report points out, NEPAD was initially and consistently intellectually scarred by inadequate consultation, particularly at grassroots level – it was leader-led. We hope that we will ensure that, as far as the African Union in its future work is concerned, there will be far more consultation at grassroots level with civil society. Perhaps the result of this, as far as NEPAD is concerned, for instance in relation to our last debate, is the modest reference in NEPAD to any kind of social sector issue. There is hardly any mention of HIV/AIDS at all, and this has to be a very glaring and serious contradiction in NEPAD's proposals for action. As the Commissioner said, we now move on to working with the African Union, which will now be given the task of working through the policies and implementing them. How will the Commission support efforts to build the kind of coherence that will be necessary now between NEPAD and the AU's strategy? Is it of concern for instance that the peer group review mechanism is somehow now being increasingly institutionalised and separated off as a kind of separate secretariat? Should this not be of some concern to us? The Commissioner talked quite rightly about the importance of the peace facility. Does the Commission intend to offer commensurate funds for the other work – the self-led development work – of the AU on democracy, human rights and good governance? Will we be offering similar support for that work, which has to go hand in hand with the work that will need to take place on conflict resolution and peace-building? As the report says, it is important that the AU is the legitimate political and mandated institution at this stage. Peace and governance cannot be dealt with through declarations such as NEPAD. What we need now, as the last speaker said, is much better focus and action. – Mr President, thank you and congratulations to Mr Deva for a very wide-ranging and comprehensive report. It is, as Commissioner Byrne said, appropriate that we are here just as those long and arduous deliberations are taking place in Johannesburg. But perhaps more important and appropriate for us is the fact that the economic partnership agreement negotiations will begin this month. They have a wide-ranging agenda in Johannesburg, just as we have here. The fact is that there are agreed goals in place and we now need all audacious and principled people to get down to working out how we meet the challenges: the challenges presented by the needless deaths of 11 million children under five every year; how we feed eight hundred million people who still go hungry; the 2.4 billion who have no adequate sanitation and the six million people we are losing every year to AIDS, TB and malaria. Aid is essential, as Mr Deva says, for developing countries, but trade will bring benefits on a far greater scale. If sub-Saharan Africa had just one percent more of the global export market, it would bring in an extra USD 70 billion each year. That is five times what the region now receives in aid and debt relief combined. Of course poor countries need more aid, but they also need better and fairer export opportunities. The great thing about trade is that it brings self-reliance; trade brings opportunities for jobs and for investments. Trade also provides that ladder out of poverty which is what our committee and this report are all about. There is nothing inevitable about all the concerns raised in Mr Deva's report. It is not written on tablets of stone that global politics and global policies should be about 'them' and 'us' and about the survival of the fittest in an unequal world, as President Mbeki said when opening the summit in Johannesburg. We must take into account too the impact of the WTO, the IMF and the World Bank and the conditionalities which they impose upon developing countries and which actually make their trading possibilities more difficult. What we need to say is that all the global actors on the global stage need a fair and comparable opportunity to perform well. Trade barriers hurt poor people in general and women in particular, since it is these groups of poor people who tend to produce the goods that are most affected: agricultural goods and labour-intensive manufactured goods. As this report suggests, we clearly need a radical shake-up of world trade rules. What we see now is untenable; the unfairness and the inequity have to be tackled and trade is the key to doing this. Certainly in terms of the ACP-EU negotiations, we have a real opportunity to be centre stage and to be offering that equity and fairness. We are an agricultural superpower and we can lead in the whole post-Doha agenda by opening markets and by ending the dumping of what we produce on to the world market, thereby producing distortions which developing countries simply cannot deal with. On TRIPS, the EU should maintain a strong and determined leadership. TRIPS must be implemented fairly. The issue of compulsory licensing must be resolved. Returning to the EPA negotiations, we should use the Doha Declaration on TRIPS as a ceiling for any discussion with the ACP on intellectual property. Finally, as Co-President of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly, I think that we have a very serious role to play in the EU's negotiations. We are saying very clearly in the Joint Assembly that we want a strong and unequivocal dimension, which is a development dimension. This will require a huge investment in building capacity and a serious analysis of the implications of the impact of reciprocity on our ACP partners. So, as Mr Deva makes clear, we have a long 'to do' list – a list which will not be dealt with unless we confront the vested interests that benefit from the plight of the poor. Europe has to be driven by the moral imperatives which we face. It is time, as Mr Deva suggests, to challenge the orthodoxies and abandon the prescriptive notion that free flows of finance and information and trade advance welfare in all cases. It is time not for defeatist language but for constructive and practical answers. – Mr President, last Saturday, I was privileged to be at the opening ceremony of the Rugby World Cup in Cardiff, the capital city of Wales where I come from and Wales actually won! All around that rugby ground there are adverts for South African fruit companies and for South African airlines. We were entertained by singers from South Africa and I thought then how far we have come from those dark days of Apartheid when so many of us, including myself and perhaps one or two of the Commissioners, called for sanctions and boycotts against Apartheid in South Africa. Now, the institutional racism and legalised bigotry and prejudice has been swept away and recognition of that momentous achievement now determines the European Union’s relationship with South Africa. But, I think we all have to acknowledge, Mr President, that we have had five years of protracted and tortuous negotiations on everything from apples, pears and asparagus to cut flowers, fish, wine, port and sherry, but eventually now we see an agreement and hopefully, a signing on Monday in South Africa. I would like confirmation from the Commission that will in fact be the case. The European Parliament and Joint Assembly have played a positive role and have offered encouragement and critical analysis and it is very appropriate that this Parliament is the first parliament to give assent to the agreement. Some Members States of the Union soon forgot the commitments made to Nelson Mandela in Berlin in 1994. It was difficult at times to understand why the response by some Member States was lacking in generosity and understanding. South Africa’s GDP is half that of Belgium and only 0.6% of the world GDP. And yet the negotiations repeatedly stalled because Member States of the European Union allowed sectoral interest to override any need to support South Africa. At the time of the United Kingdom’s Presidency, Philip Stevens, who writes a column in the Financial Times, observed that the European side has been consistently devious, destructive and above all, shamefully protectionist. From the outset, it has sought to hold South Africa hostage to its own subsidised farmers. Let me now summarise the essentials: The asymmetric nature of the trade agreement is crucial and involves the systematic elimination or reduction of tariff barriers and other duties. Europe will open up its markets to 95% of South Africa’s exports over ten years. South Africa will open its markets to 86% of European Union exports over twelve years. This agreement is unique in that it includes the agricultural sector which, of course, is of immense importance to the South African economy. It also acknowledges the potential damage which subsidised agricultural products can do to South African markets, and actually allows South Africa to impose a special safeguard clause in the event of any threats to their own domestic agricultural industry. However, I see running through the agreements the protectionism which unfortunately still characterises the common agricultural policy of the Union. It is also my view that this agreement should not be seen as a model, particularly for ACP countries currently involved in the new post-Lomé Agreements, and I would like confirmation that is not the Commission position. But there are clear lessons to be learnt about the sheer complexities involved in such a project, especially when the mighty EU is your counterpart in very difficult and contentious discussions. This Agreement now needs to be translated into practical benefits. Finally, let me turn to the regional implications. This, I feel, will be the aspect of the agreements which will cause most concern. There will be a reduction, naturally, of customs revenues which Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia and Swaziland have become dependent on. These duties are sometimes as high as 90% in the case of Lesotho and this, of course, will affect these countries’ ability to spend on essential health and education and other social needs. There will be adjustment costs. It is still very unclear, Commissioner, how these costs will be met and certainly the Conference in Lesotho which the Commission has promised seems to be somewhat unclear also. I have had representation from the BLNS countries asking exactly what the position is on that Conference. My own interest in South Africa dates back thirty years. It continues because the issues at stake are no less important now than they ever were. President Mbeki knows that the patience of the people of South Africa is not infinite and he also knows that black impoverished South Africa is desperate to see change. When President Mbeki was inaugurated, he said ‘our nights cannot be nights of nightmares while millions of people live in degrading poverty. No night can be restful when millions have no jobs and are forced to beg and rob to ensure that they and their own do not perish from hunger. Our country, South Africa, is beginning a long journey’. This Parliament should give its assent to this agreement in order that the European Union can play its part in that momentous journey. – May I thank the Commission for an excellent initiative on our relationship with the UN. Three short simple questions: how in the Commissioner's analysis do the priorities of the United Nations differ from the priorities of the European Union in terms of the way we believe that humanitarian aid should be delivered? How will the tensions which I have personally observed be overcome – the tensions which always exist on the ground between the UN and the European Union, and how will the new approach which you intend to adopt, facilitate a better partnership and a lessening of those kind of tensions on the ground? Mr President, since that mission to the Côte d'Ivoire by ACP and European Parliament parliamentarians in May 2003 it has become increasingly clear that the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement is a rather imperfect instrument. There remains, as others have said, an extremely worrying reluctance on all sides to work together, to co-exist, to cooperate and to work for reconciliation. That was absolutely clear when we were there and it remains the case. There has to be an end to impunity and, as the Commissioner said, a much clearer determination is essential to achieve demilitarisation, demobilisation and then rehabilitation in that country. Mr Prodi visited Côte d'Ivoire in November and he made serious pledges on these issues. This Parliament would like to see those pledges turned into real and immediate financial assistance as quickly as possible. ECHO still needs more support in order to do its essential work of implementing the accords. This is the key to bringing peace, as is the need to put in place humanitarian assistance, protection for civilians and so on. In the context of African Union and our ACP obligations, Commissioner Nielson suggested an extremely welcome and innovative way in which we can support Africa's own efforts to manage conflict. My understanding is – and I would like clarification on this because it was not clear from what the Council said – that certain Member States want to use the peace facility, which is well worked out, to fund directly sub-regional organisations, apparently without consulting the African Union, or even seeking the endorsement of the African Union. For me this is an incredible proposal and one I would like to hear explained this morning. Would the Council agree that the European Union must give sustainable long-term support to the continental peace efforts that have been made and give assistance to the architecture which has been put in place to build security on the continent by the African Union? Does the Council believe that the Member States would agree to support the declared wish of all African Heads of State that finance be managed under the African Union's authority and in no other way? I would appreciate some clarification as to where we are at the moment on the extremely important proposal for which Commissioner Nielson was responsible. – Mr President, my thanks to the Commissioner for his statement. In 1998, Commissioner, 530 000 children were infected with the AIDS virus in Sub-Saharan Africa. The startling contrast is that 1 000 children in total were infected by the virus in the whole of Western Europe and North America during that year. So we have to ask the question: why does such a discrepancy exist Why are there such stark contrasts in terms of the sheer scale of the poverty of people’s lives in Africa and, of course the resulting lack of proper health services, education, and AIDS treatments. Of course, as others have said, the neglect of Africa has very severe economic consequences. These include the suffering and death of productive members of their societies and, very importantly, the diversion of women away from employment towards the role as carers, and the diversion of resources in families and communities from savings to care, and indeed, as I am sure you are aware, to the endless funerals that you can witness in countries like Zimbabwe if you stand on a street corner. The time has come to invest in programmes that target more effectively the health needs of the people in Africa. It is, of course, ironic, as we mentioned in the Development Committee yesterday, that the Budget Committee voted last week to cut the budget line on reproductive health care and HIV/AIDS work by half from EUR 25 million to 12 million, and that we are now discussing the need for investment in this area. In rich countries, anti-retroviral therapies are extending the lives of significant numbers of people in wealthy nations. But I have to say that these solutions will never be affordable or accessible to the tens of millions of the world’s poorest people. I welcome the fact that the European Commission is placing increasing emphasis on giving resources to support the development of an AIDS vaccine. Only last week, as I am sure you are aware, the British development minister announced a very large investment in research for that vaccine. Early clinical trials will begin in January 2000 in the United Kingdom, and afterwards in Nairobi. In countries like Zimbabwe where 20% of the population are positive, vaccines, in my view, are the only hope. Meanwhile, in the short term, women are the key to progress. Adolescent girls in Sub-Saharan Africa are 6 times more likely to be infected than boys of their age. In a recent study in Kenya 25% of girls between 15 and 19 were HIV positive and 4% of boys. Women are literally silenced by ignorance, fear and stigma. Gugu Dlamini announced in a rally in Johannesburg last December that she was HIV positive. A week later, she was beaten to death by neighbours who said that she had brought shame to their community. That kind of situation, President, shames us all. – Mr President, may I begin by saying that I cannot agree with anyone who suggests that the claims of most of the people who have been processed in the system in the United Kingdom are found to be fraudulent. I would like to distance myself from statements like that. It misrepresents the position of people in Britain who do not understand the kind of attitude that we heard here earlier this afternoon. We are glad that after eight days of sitting under tarpaulins in the hot sun and inside containers, the Afghan refugees are now at least in reasonable conditions on board the ship on a long voyage to Port Moresby in Papua New Guinea. It has been an extremely tragic incident and terrible to watch and to think of their suffering. But more than anything it teaches us that the 50-year old asylum-seeking system instigated by the United Nations is not working any more. It is creaking under the strain of the mass movement of 21 million migrants a year. The desperation of the people on the is clear. To suggest that people take this kind of action lightly is ridiculous. They take terrible risks with their lives and the lives of their children in order to escape persecution or penury. They cross the seas in inflatable boats, they cling to the underside of trains like the Eurostar and jumbo jets. The suffering of the refugees on the should at least lead all the governments that we represent here to rethink the way that they implement the 1951 UN Convention on Refugees. Finally, I would say that the first thing we have to try and do is to ensure that it is governments, rather than organised criminals, that determine where refugees finally end up. – Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner very much. The fact is, of course, that we are already more than half way through the preparatory period for these negotiations on EPAs, so these delays are rather difficult for the ACP to deal with; they are delays that affect thousands of livelihoods in the ACP and so there is deep concern. I understand the Commissioner's difficulty in explaining why this has happened. I wanted to ask you specifically: is the Commission prepared to be flexible about the start time, end time and terms of these negotiations? – We can congratulate the French presidency on taking this initiative to prepare for the UN special session. You obviously have made a commitment to involving civil society. Will you also make a commitment to actually consulting children, since the events involve them? I hope that their views will also be sought in the months ahead. Secondly, it is also the case that while many Member States are very active on the issue of children's rights it is actually much more difficult in a European Union context to be as proactive. What progress do you think we might make in securing a legal base for the European Union's work with children and the promotion of children's rights? Mr President, I can assure the last speaker that we are neither lifeless nor anaemic in the work that we undertake in the Joint Parliamentary Assembly. The references which the excellent rapporteur makes are to the fact that we now have a parliamentary status and a very different way of working but, most important, the ACP representation is of elected Members of Parliament and not of ambassadors, which used to be the case in the past. I am sure if the previous speaker were to look at the evidence she would see that was the case. It is because we have this parliamentary status under the Cotonou Partnership Agreement that we have a new and dynamic maturity. The parliamentary assembly is a very special institution: it is the democratic arm of ACP-EU cooperation and provides a voice for the people in the 93 countries which are represented there. It is our task to build credible and workable partnerships through dialogue and consultation between our respective parliaments. In our last Joint Assembly we worked on the EPA trade negotiations, human rights, governance, the European Development Fund and environmental concerns. Our entire effort is to ensure that we deliver the promise and vision of Cotonou. Our work should reflect that unique subscription between the EU and 78 ACP countries to those values which are enshrined in the agreement. Those values are central to our work here in Parliament and to our work with developing countries, and that is democracy, the rule of law and, above all, the eradication of poverty. We are conscious of the difference of opportunity that exists between our ACP colleagues and ourselves. We have access to staff and technology to assist us with our work, and far greater opportunities to cooperate and work together, as we are now in our preparations for Addis Ababa at the end of this week. In addition, we have far more of a tradition of parliamentary scrutiny. I am delighted that Commissioner Nielson has on a number of occasions expressed his support for the Joint Assembly and for financial resources to be made available for us to be more effective in our work and for the participation of ACP Parliaments to be greater, because, after all, it is their legitimacy and accountability as parliamentarians that is at the heart of our work. I am encouraged by the growing confidence of ACP parliamentarians, and that has been demonstrated, as Mrs Flesch says, by the extensive participation now from both sides in the debates we are having. We comment on it because it is growing and developing as confidence increases. In the past it was the European parliamentarians who dominated every debate and that, I am glad to say, is no longer the case. They are absolutely hungry for information in order that they can be more effective in their parliaments. I know that some countries – such as Senegal – are making a priority of parliamentary training and capacity-building in their national indicative programmes. But we need to do more to encourage more JPA parliaments to have this facility. We are now preparing for the seventh session of the JPA in Addis Ababa this weekend and I am sure that we will continue to work in an increasingly impressive and focused way in 2003. – Mr President, in today’s  the Secretary-General of UNCTAD reiterated that there remains persistent bias against developing countries in the multilateral trading system. In these deliberations we need to be absolutely clear that developing countries are not asking for an ambitious programme in this round. They are asking for compliance with the commitments which were made under the Uruguay Round. They have not, for instance, seen the benefits for their textile and clothing industries, neither have they seen benefits from the liberalisation of trade in farm products. What they want to see first are the good effects that could come from the Uruguay Round. Developing countries are preparing for Seattle, and preparing to be very busy. They are saying that market access alone is not going to be a panacea enabling them to achieve competitiveness and integration into the global economy. We need to acknowledge that all these fine objectives will demand that we support the supply side in developing countries, because they simply will not have the capacity to deal with these fine objectives. It is also necessary to see the elimination of agricultural export subsidies and a new WTO clause to cover the need for food security in developing countries. Also, a social clause – which many people have mentioned – should be jointly managed by the ILO to ensure that some of the susceptibilities we all know about are dealt with. Finally, Commissioner, when you deal with WTO rules in your deliberations, I would ask you also to remember that we have enormous duties and responsibilities under the Lomé Convention. – Mr President, I must say to the last speaker that, as somebody British, I can confirm that my ancestors had absolutely nothing to do with the oppression or repression of the people of Zimbabwe. I would like to make it clear that I and my family are in no way guilty of colluding with anything that took place in colonial days. It is very important for us to recognise that this resolution is being debated here today at a very important time. It is an opportunity for President Mugabe to make the decision once and for all to step back from the brink, as Mr Van Orden has clearly said. In addition to the negotiations, which are taking place as we speak in Abuja between foreign ministers of the Commonwealth, there are a number of European Union initiatives including the intended visit to the southern African countries by the Belgian Foreign Minister, representing the Presidency and Mr Solana, the high representative. There are a number of other things going on as well. Very importantly, in about three weeks, the preparatory team will be going out to prepare for the European Union's involvement – hopefully – in the March presidential elections. That makes it extremely important. But if it turns out that all those initiatives fail and he still turns his back on the willingness of the international community to have dialogue with him, then it will be time to take stock of what is happening. I would say to Mrs Maes in particular that one of the reasons the Council and the Commission have not wanted to take urgent action, as some in this Parliament would perhaps have wanted, is the danger that what Mugabe wants is an excuse to call a state of emergency in Zimbabwe so he can cancel the election, stop the democratic process and stifle the official opposition as well as any opposition from the press and media. We need to understand the potential impact of anything that the European Union, or indeed the Commonwealth, does in order to tackle what is happening in Zimbabwe. The defining moment will be on 8 October when the next General Affairs Council is due to take place. If no progress has been made by this time, if the dialogue has failed, if we say this is a useless procedure, then at this point it is essential that we adopt so-called smart sanctions. We should restrict visas to all Mugabe's associates and his government and identify those individuals with foreign bank accounts and freeze their assets. Those are smart sanctions that will not hurt the poor people of Zimbabwe but would certainly hurt those Zimbabweans who very much like coming to London to shop in Harrods or visit their children who are in British public schools. Those are the kind of important things that the European Union can do. Similarly we will have to look at the possibility of the suspension of development aid because that is how the Cotonou Agreement would suggest that we should proceed. At that time, we would have to express Parliament's view, as we say now, that insufficient progress has been made on land seizures, on political violence, on all of these things that others have raised. Finally, I support the words of Morgan Tsvangirai, the leader of the Opposition Party, who this morning on the BBC was very tough on Mugabe and I will quote what he said and finish with this: 'President Mugabe has clearly violated all the tenets of the Commonwealth and all other international organisations and should now be isolated from the international community.' We should heed the words of the leader of the opposition in Zimbabwe. – Mr President, agriculture, support for rural development and the protection of rural communities are at the heart of Mr Khanbhai's report and he addresses many of the fundamental inequities which feature so prominently in the lives of the rural poor. Clearly, as other speakers have said, the European Union and its Member States have a very important role to play. I think we need to show much more understanding of the real reasons for the so-called urban drift from rural areas and of the effect of the systems and structures which conspire to destroy the livelihoods of millions who live by the land. The European Union is, of course, part of the solution. As the biggest trading block, we have an important role to play. I have to say that it is sheer hypocrisy to continue to protect our own agricultural competitive position with higher resources, while at the same time forcing developing countries to liberalise. Rapid opening of their markets threatens food security and sustainable livelihoods in developing countries. The parallel negotiations which will be going on at the WTO and between the ACP and the European Union must be used as an opportunity to show that the European Union clearly understands that trade and market access and tariff levels are directly and inextricably linked to our understanding of how we meet those critical millennium development goals. The paradox is that, in a time of global plenty, farmers in developing countries are abandoning the land and agriculture. They simply cannot compete with heavily subsidised food flooding into their markets and dumped on their markets. The report describes the effect of the dumping of milk on Jamaica and the dumping of beef on West Africa. In Uganda, for instance, the coffee growers are suffering enormously. One hundred and fifty Ugandan shillings are what a grower gets for a kilo of the coffee he grows. If you go down to the Sheraton in Kampala, you pay one thousand Ugandan shillings for one single cup of coffee. With growers receiving such a poor reward for their efforts, it is not surprising that Oxfam describes this as a situation that affects health and education and the whole rural community. So small farmers from Haiti to Mexico and Mozambique to Tanzania are simply selling up and selling out. They are unable to compete with the rich agricultural barons. That is the reality we are facing, one which Mr Khanbhai deals with very well indeed. He also gives us a very timely reminder in his report that 75% of the 1.2 billion living on less than one dollar a day are in rural areas. That certainly is a call to action. You might expect a bit of an old hand in development like me – as you are yourself – to be somewhat sceptical about the possibilities that we can deal with, in particular the coherence issues related to development, foreign policy and other policy areas such as agriculture and trade in the European Union. So there are still outstanding issues. You mentioned the peace facility, which, as an initiative from the European Union, we of course welcome very much indeed, but it is my understanding that certain Member States of the Union are suggesting that funding should go through regional and subregional organisations such as ECOWAS, and I wondered whether you would agree with me that our view should be shared with the African heads of states, who say that finance, organisation, management and decision-making should come through the African Union itself and not be devolved to various other regional organisations? Finally, how would you assess the implications of the failure of the IGC on the proposal – of which you have been very much in favour – related to the creation of a European Foreign Minister to manage some of these issues? Madam President, I thank the rapporteur for an excellent report and for continuing to show her interest in and commitment to these issues. Like her I welcome the Commission's continuing focus on action against and treatment of HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria. The programme which was launched in 2001 has produced some very important and impressive results. We need in this report and in this Parliament to reiterate the importance of continuing this emphasis on tackling these particular diseases in the context of our poverty eradication efforts. It is absolutely crucial to recognise the importance of this concentration of effort on these diseases, which, as others have said very graphically this evening, claim so many lives and cause so much suffering. I trust the Commission will continue its efforts to build the necessary political will, based since 2001 on an increasing knowledge of what actually works in the field at this time. There remains a greater need for donor resources and for national resources, and the Commission must continue to argue for more commitments to fight AIDS, to the programme and to the Global Health Fund from bilateral programmes. I welcome the acknowledgement, as the rapporteur and others have already agreed in the report, of what is arguably the most neglected crisis spawned by the HIV/AIDS pandemic – the plight of millions of profoundly vulnerable children who have been orphaned by the disease. The numbers, as some of us have already seen in the field, are overwhelming the capacity of families and communities to cope. We are clearly facing a development catastrophe at the hands of the AIDS pandemic. There is no better gauge of its scale and cruelty than the orphan crisis. I urge the Commission to compile data on the impact of all these diseases on children and women. All of these efforts will not be assisted by the dangerous misinformation pedalled by the Roman Catholic Church with its pseudo-scientific pronouncements about the spermatozoa passing through the net formed by a condom. This nonsense, alongside US views on the need for abstention before marriage, is incorrect and quite simply dangerous. US policies are not saving lives: they are only pandering to the fundamentalist conservative voters at home. Kofi Annan has described the AIDS crisis as being an issue of weapons of mass destruction. There is a great deal to do, and it will require substantial funding from our programmes in developing countries. AIDS has to be a core theme of our development assistance. – Can I say that we fully understand the wish of the Commission and Council to ensure the success of the telecom package in advance of the Laeken Summit. It is vital to achieve the Lisbon targets, but as the shadow PSE rapporteur, I wish to complain about the procedure. I also object to the deals which have been struck at the last minute behind closed doors resulting in a compromise package which seriously weakens the provisions for must-carry services and for people with special needs and disabilities. These were approved unanimously in the Legal Affairs Committee. It was of course disappointing that the British Conservative rapporteur informed me of his decision to abandon these important provisions for consumers and users in order to achieve political expediency. My delegation or the Labour MEPs voted in favour to maintain the committee's positions on these important provisions. Can we remind perhaps the Commission and Council that we are co-legislators, not co-drafters of declarations which have no legal force and rely on the Commission's goodwill to deliver on must-carry. We will, of course, monitor the Commission's progress to deliver on these provisions. I have to say that today was a victory for Laeken, for the Commission and Council on the telecoms package, but it was not a victory for democracy in this House. – Mr President, I understand the need to maintain the integrity of the telecoms package, but I understand there have been some final changes to the declaration the Commission has issued on 'must carry' rules. I would like to know whether this text genuinely reflects Parliament's views, particularly the amendments of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and whether the Commission would be kind enough to read out that text so that we can see what we are agreeing to vote on. – Mr President, the initiative to create the ".EU" Domain name will be a necessary boost to expansion in the e-economy. We know that the key brake on this expansion is the lack of confidence, particularly amongst consumers. A European TLD, therefore, should be synonymous with a zone of e-confidence. In addition it should allow European companies to ensure their visibility and presence on the European stage. As Mrs Flesch said, we have worked very closely on this report. We have jointly made some very important recommendations. They give greater clarity to the text and they spell out in detail the role the registry should perform. I have concentrated in my committee mainly on the issues of the internal market, intellectual property aspects and the general policy framework. Let me highlight some of the amendments. The idea of Amendment No 36 was that the registry should adopt terms and conditions to incorporate an accredited code of conduct for online trading and therefore give businesses the opportunity to join an accredited online extra-judicial dispute resolution scheme. This will respond to business concerns to see added value to ".EU" Domain names and will again create this zone of e-consumer confidence in line with the Lisbon conclusions. While registration should generally be on a first-come, first-served principle, we have nonetheless proposed that rightholders, who have prior rights in law and public policy, should have the opportunity to pre-register. We have tried to address the growing problem of cyber squatting by asking the registry to run a mediation and arbitration service, either free or on a cost-recovery basis to deal with speculative and abusive registration of domain names. We are proposing the setting up of a policy advisory committee, as is the practice in country domain names, to assist in dealing with what can be registered at top level. Commissioner, we understand the need to make progress on the establishment of ".EU" and the need to ensure we respect the principles of the Internet world, namely self-regulation and self-management. But it is important to get the principles right from the outset, to ensure success, and that is why we have spelt this out in detail. Mrs Flesch and I had excellent cooperation. We now look forward to similar cooperation with the Council and Commission. We hope they will seriously consider our recommendations, and that we can come to a speedy decision to enable ".EU" to get off to a running start as soon as possible. – Mr President, I too would like to thank our rapporteur, Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, for her excellent report and, more importantly, her consistent and energetic efforts to achieve a consensus on the Community patent in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal market. It is those kinds of skills that we sorely miss now that she is ex-chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Her efforts, I have to say, have sadly not been helped by the failure of the Council to achieve an outcome in this area and, indeed, an unanimous agreement. It is clear that we need a Community patent and that it is a key element in underpinning the Lisbon agenda of encouraging EU innovation and competitiveness. But the system, as Lord Inglewood has said, has to be attractive to industry and business otherwise it will simply be an irrelevance. Industry has given the Member States, the Commission and Parliament a very clear message: it wants consistent judgments under Community jurisdiction and a common jurisprudence, in particular regarding enforcement. In particular they want a cheap and user-friendly regime. If SMEs and especially inventors are to derive any benefit from this Community patent, what they do not want is a convoluted system which will tie them up in paperwork and red tape. I illustrate this problem with the experience of one of my constituents, John Hamson, an engineer and inventor who cannot afford to employ expensive patent agents. He has a UK patent. He cites to me in letters his problems in dealing with the European Patent Office and the litany of hurdles he has to go through to obtain a European patent. I do not want to repeat them, and it is not meant as a criticism of the European Patent Office. But the fact is that he has spent a lot of money and he still has no European patent. His comments are summed up in his last letter to me some weeks ago: "the process is clearly designed to discourage small inventors and favours large business equipped with legal and patent expertise to navigate its treacherous bureaucracy." We owe it to industry, to small and medium-sized enterprises and individual inventors to provide a simple, affordable Community patent which in turn will help EU innovation and competitiveness. We must be able to offer industry and SMEs a better deal to ensure that the protection of intellectual property is genuinely an opportunity to create and encourage innovation. Like Lord Inglewood, I do not believe that the Council has the answers to these problems. It will fall to Commissioner Bolkestein to try to find the solution. However, we have had a rapporteur who has made a Herculean effort to try to achieve this. It is no fault of hers that we have not got the right consensus, but I have to say that there is no compromise to be achieved on languages. Therefore I leave it to Commissioner Bolkestein to try to find a solution that will satisfy some of my constituents back in the north-west of England. . – Mr President, I welcome the Commission’s strategy on cybercrime. This is, as Mrs Cederschiöld said, a very controversial and difficult area which raises issues of how to regulate the Internet and yet not stifle its development; and also significant issues regarding crime surveillance and privacy, data protection and retention, yet we need to be aware the cybercriminals do not respect our personal integrity. We now have a growing phenomenon of so-called data streaming – hacking into computer systems and stealing credit card details in bulk. The total cost loss to the UK last year was GBP300 million, an increase of 55% on 1999. We need more secure systems if we are to boost consumer confidence in using the Internet. Commissioner, in your strategy I want you to prioritise tackling the very disturbing growth in child pornography on the Internet. We need to clamp down on sexual exploitation of children. Again, there has been a very massive growth in cross-border child pornography. In the UK, members of the so-called “Wonderland Club”, an Internet paedophilia ring, were arrested and found to have sites in 12 different European countries. In my own region, the Greater Manchester Obscene Publications Unit has had success in cracking down on paedophilia with new Internet tracing software. That is why, with the backing of many of the children’s organisations across the European Union, we are calling for a number of actions. We want you to look at the possibility of involving credit card companies and Internet service providers in supporting the blacklisting of sites trading in illegal pornographic content. We want to see the expansion of 24-hour hotlines and electronic watchtowers. We want to see the creation of a European rating system for child-friendly Internet providers and the display of child safety messages. We want child pornography on news groups blocked. We want closer involvement by Europol in prosecuting cyber paedophiles and better cooperation between European law enforcement agencies. The European Union must act to ensure that there are no safe havens in Europe for cyber paedophiles. Our message, therefore, is that we are stepping up our action and closing down these sites. We want you, Commissioner, to take action in this area. – Mr President, on a point of order. I refer to the comments made in a statement this morning by Mrs Fontaine regarding certain logistical problems in the building. In the interests of transparency and information to Members, we need to know the extent of the problem of legionella. Could you provide us with information on that? What procedures have been put in place? Has the air-conditioning system now been switched off? Can we therefore assume that an operation has been undertaken to disinfect the system? Could you confirm this and, indeed, could Parliament’s presidency confirm that there is no problem with asbestosis which, of course, would be in breach of our own EU directive passed over a decade ago. – This is not a trivial matter. We accept the logical reason that you have given, but I have to ask you a further question. Was the Member who replaced Mr Casini indeed entitled to vote, as Mr Casini’s resignation was only announced on Monday evening. Under Rule 8 of the Rules of Procedure, there has to be an exchange of letters between the European Parliament and the Italian Government so that we can actually confirm his entitlement to vote and if that is the case, of course, it is a valid vote. Mr President, I also welcome the fact that we have now reached the point with this inter-institutional agreement that we can begin to make good on our commitment to deliver better and simpler legislation. I would also like to congratulate the team of negotiators and indeed our rapporteurs. If we get it right, good clear simple legislation could mean fewer infringement cases in the European Court of Justice, it could also result in laws which are easier to enforce in our Member States. I believe that consumers and citizens need to know what redress they can expect from EU law, and businesses need to be clear about standards and practices they must aspire to, in order to implement EU law. Yes, regulatory impact assessments may be a technical tool, but they are a vital tool in both involving more stake-holders and providing for checks and balances on the executive, improving both the quality of debate in this House and our ability to call the executive to account. We can also use impact assessments to evaluate the benefits of proposed legislation and equally to look at where co-regulation, self-regulation or soft- law can be useful tools. I know some of my colleagues are concerned that soft-law options would undermine or take away Parliaments prerogative as a legislator. I accept that there are cultural differences between Member States on this issue, but we also have to accept that sometimes legislation can be inflexible and difficult to change whereas codes of conduct can have effect more quickly, particularly in unfair business practices. Of course, Mr MacCormick is right that legislation is about politics. It is not just a scientific exercise of impact assessments. For that reason this Parliament and its elected politicians will always be an essential part of the legislative process. I also agree that callback is an essential part of that right of scrutiny. We should give our support to the better legislation agenda but Parliament will need more resources and powers to be able to respond to and evaluate impact assessments and use these regulatory procedures to call Commission and Council to account. The better regulation agenda will require a change of culture, power and responsibility in all our institutions. It should not be to the detriment of Parliament; in fact it should strengthen parliamentary scrutiny of future legislation. .– This Parliament can be proud today that it has voted to enhance disability rights. In particular, this report is a victory for disabled transport users. It has taken nine years to get this legislation. The new technical standards we voted for will ensure that wheelchair access is available for public transport. It creates minimum safety standards and puts in place access requirements which will be good for elderly people with reduced mobility and parents with prams boarding urban buses. It is regrettable that the PPE-DE tried on a technical issue to get rid of this legislation with Amendment No 9. The European Disability Forum and Parliament's Disability Rights Intergroup have campaigned long and hard on this issue. It is cynical political manipulation to play games with disability rights. With the vote on this legislation we can as Parliament say we are legislating for all citizens for equal access and equal rights. – Mr President, Mrs Wallis' report is an important contribution to the debate on Community policy on out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes. I also commend her recommendations to this House, and indeed share her concerns. We all know from our own experience that lengthy and costly litigation through the courts is losing its appeal as a means to resolve disputes. The notion that most people want judges, well-dressed lawyers and fine courtrooms as a setting to resolve their disputes is no longer correct. People with problems, like people with pains, want relief and they want it as quickly and as inexpensively as possible. The success of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms is beginning to create a cultural shift away from traditional litigation. In a recent case in the UK, an eleven-month trial running into millions of pounds was replaced and resolved by mediation in a matter of days. We see examples of this across Europe. But if the single market is to grow, then we need to make it easier for consumers to shop across borders with greater confidence. This will only happen if consumers can buy goods and services and be confident and secure that if problems arise they can be resolved easily. Not in the first instance in court where the average cost for a cross-border case is EUR 2 500 and it takes between 23 and 29 months to resolve. In reality, we know that consumers are not encouraged to shop on the Internet outside their own Member State and that national consumer organisations – including in my own Member State – are not advising consumers to go down this route because it is fraught with difficulties. My own personal experience with Internet shopping has not inspired me with e-confidence. After purchasing CDs from a renowned high street store, namely HMV, I received an incomplete order with a promise of further delivery. Most reputable shopping sites ensure that money is not taken from an account. Two months on I have still to receive outstanding items and my visa card has been debited the full amount. Yet the value of these items is small and court redress would be costly and nonsensical. Consumers are also increasingly tempted to buy even more expensive items across borders, like washing machines, fridges, financial services and cars. ADR is a valuable way to access justice providing services and remedies which are appropriate to the cost of the item. But it is not the panacea to all consumer disputes. The consumer must still have the right to go to court as a last resort. In the absence of an agreement directly with the trader or the trading site, the consumer should be encouraged to look at the benefits of ADRs. It is vital, as Mrs Wallis, has said, that the consumer is aware and informed of this option. In my own Member State, citizens advice bureaux are acting as a clearing-house. Consumers who make claims have, therefore, a local point of access and information. This is vital. For consumers in the UK there is an even bigger bonus as a by-product of boosting confidence in crossborder shopping on the Internet. We can shop in a larger market and often buy goods up to a third cheaper. This has to be a benefit in what we call "rip-off Britain", by driving down high prices in our own over-priced internal home market. . – Mr President, the Commission proposal on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions before Parliament is not, as some opponents of the directive have suggested, a new phenomenon. Neither does it argue for the patenting of software, nor for extending the patentability and scope of protection in this area. The fact is that some 30 000 patents for computer-implemented inventions have been handed out by the European Patent Office and indeed national patent offices. Computer-implemented inventions are present, as the Commissioner has said, in everyday household appliances, from safety devices such as airbags in cars to mobile phones, washing machines and an endless list of other devices with relevance going well beyond the traditional computer industries to the heart of our manufacturing sectors. Let us be clear: without this directive, patents will continue to be filed. Out of over 110 000 applications received at the EPO in 2001, 16 000 dealt with inventions in computer-implemented technologies. In the USA, and increasingly in Japan, patents have unfortunately been granted for what is essentially pure software. An EU directive, by setting limits to patentability in this area, could stop the drift in Europe towards a US-liberal style of patenting software as such, and indeed of patenting pure business methods. One oft-quoted example of such a bad patent is Amazon's 'one-click' shopping method. Clearly this technology is not new, nor is it unique, and patenting of software business methods such as this is not good for innovation and competition. It is unfortunate that the EPO has granted it a patent: this is an example of bad EPO practice. Without a doubt computer-implemented inventions - genuine inventions which, in some cases, are the result of 10 to 15 years' R[amp]D investment - are important for the European economy. At a time when many of our traditional industries are migrating to China and the Far East, we need to rely on our innovation and inventiveness to earn our living. I have seen letters from small companies across Europe which are supportive of this directive. A small Belgian company employing 12 people has written to me saying that it needs patents to get a return on its investment, to grow its business and to ensure that others respect its technology. It is important for many European companies to grow their businesses through revenue secured by patents and licences. This is also the case for a ten-person company in the south-west of England, located in an economic blackspot with high unemployment. This company granted a licence to a US multinational for its computer-implemented voice recognition patents, which shows that in the world of global patents there can be examples of David meeting Goliath. Without patent protection the small company could have found itself in a perverse situation where its R[amp]D efforts would have been free for the multinational company which, with its team of patent lawyers, would have gained the patent in this area. Consequently, the European company would not have reaped the benefits and, indeed, there could have been an infringement of a patent owned by a multinational. I have tabled amendments in my report to underline my opposition to the patenting of software as such. We want explicitly to exclude computer methods, algorithms and mathematical models from patentability, as set out in a new Article 4. I have attempted to produce balanced legislation that takes account of the needs of all sectors of the industry, not just one vocal sector that is against this directive. I would be the first to agree that we need more debate on and refinement of the proposed legislation. I therefore ask the Commission to look at the crux of this debate: how do we get good patent law which rewards our most innovative companies for their investment in R[amp]D while, at the same time, not allowing companies to use patents to abuse a dominant position, lock up technology and stifle innovation and competition? I therefore ask the Commissioner to look at these amendments tabled in plenary today. They are very clear in suggesting that we need to limit patentability to genuine inventions in Articles 2 and 4. We want to ensure interoperability to enable computer programmers to engage in reverse engineering practices and to decompile programs for experimental purposes without risking infringement or legal action. It is vital that we address the perception that patents are only for big business: small companies can, and do, gain from patent protection. However, to have a fighting chance in such a competitive business they need access to affordable patents and assistance with legal fees to protect and enforce their patents. Other amendments seek to ensure that the granting of a patent does not allow monopoly or abuse of a dominant position. We also want to protect the open-source community which makes a vital contribution to competitiveness in the area of software development. Therefore, I ask the Commissioner to give serious consideration to the amendments and to recognise them in the spirit in which they have been tabled, as a genuine attempt to ensure that Europe develops good patent law in the field of computer-implemented inventions. This does not mean rubber-stamping bad practice in Europe, but developing good practice for the future, good law, good patent examiners, and a quick death for applications that are clearly not inventions. We also want to ensure that multinationals do not dominate in our EU markets. We need patents in order to protect our own companies and investments so that they can be effective global players in this fast-changing and rapidly developing software-development market. . – Mr President, I want to concentrate on the need to tackle the growing phenomenon of child abuse on the Internet. We welcome initiatives by the Member States in the EU on safer Internet use for children but we need to step up our actions for a more coordinated campaign to fight against Internet paedophilia. When it comes to cybercrime, Member States rightly prioritise the campaign against global terrorism and, additionally, focus on Internet credit card fraud, but more can and should be done on Internet-paedophilia. Last week I met with the Abusive Images Unit of Greater Manchester Police, a small, committed team led by Terry Jones, leading the field in expertise in the UK on tracing and convicting child abusers on the net. The unit was launched in 1995, when 12 images were seized. In 1999, 41,000 images were seized and one recent conviction revealed a man with over 50,000 images of child abuse. This is not child pornography but gross and indecent sexual abuse. I have seen the pictures. Behind each image is a real child traumatised by their experiences. The police I met with are doing an excellent job and being assisted by new software technology designed again by a local company in my constituency, Surf Control. With this they monitored chat channels for 16 hours. They picked up 48 offenders right across the EU – offenders in positions of trust (teachers and scoutmasters, a foster parent in Germany and a Swedish army sergeant); babies as young as three months had been anally raped. Abuse is under-reported. So what should we do in the EU? We need to do more. We need hotlines and to make this a priority at EU and Member State level. This week we voted for a EU network of national monitoring centres on football hooliganism. That is a violent and visible form of abuse, but we can do more for those children who are suffering behind the scenes from fear and violent abuse. Yes, we need self-regulation and partnership, but Internet service providers have to prioritise this. AOL and NTL have excellent reputations, but others are not doing the job. They are not answering the request of police to track down these abusers and they are even beginning to ask to charge the police service for it. I want to see closer cooperation between Europol and EU law enforcement. I want better research and funding for Internet-tracing software. We can do more if we make this a priority and we can protect our children from this violent and heinous form of abuse. – Mr President, the resolution that we have before us today is not intended in any way to criticise the key actors namely the Bhutanese or Nepalese Governments in the process of finding a solution for the 96 000 Nepalese speaking Bhutanese refugees living in the camps. There have been 17 000 children born in those camps over the last ten years. This resolution seeks to encourage initiatives and action and ask the Commission to help perhaps with financial mechanisms to support the re-settlement of these people. We welcome the fact that Japan has donated USD 1.3 million to the refugees, and that USD 1 million has been forthcoming from world food programmes. But the people in those camps would prefer to be re-settled back in their homelands and not have that money. They sent us this memorandum asking our support for action to solve their problem and to have justice. In it they say "we pray at your end, honourable European Parliamentarians, that justice may prevail on us". That is what we are doing here today. Let us hope that our resolution will bring some justice to these people, will help them re-settle in their homelands and achieve some results. .  The EPLP is disappointed that additional amendments to strengthen information and consultation provisions in the directive were narrowly defeated by a PPE and Liberal led coalition. The EPLP supported amendments affording employees more extensive rights of information and consultation during the bid process. Nonetheless, we accept that this directive does represent an improvement for employees on information and consultation, compared with the July 2001 directive. Articles 6, 9 and 13 represent an improvement on employees' rights. Indeed the original Commission proposal provided that the provisions of the information and consultation directive would be without prejudice to the takeovers directive, now it is explicit that the takeover directive is without prejudice to the information and consultation directive. For the EPLP, it comes down to question of political judgement: Is it better to have no directive thus allowing the continuation of an unregulated market for takeovers, with no disclosure or transparency of corporate structures and little or no guarantee of employees' rights to information and consultation, or, is it better to vote in favour of a directive allowing substantial progress on creating a open, transparent framework for takeovers, introducing new standards to guarantee both employees' and investors rights? We voted for the latter. . – I, too, congratulate both the rapporteurs, Mr Cashman and Mr Mann, on their excellent work. This package of legislation will open a new and radical chapter in the EU's history of commitment to securing equal opportunities and combating the modern scourge of discrimination. This Parliament will send a clear message in our vote to all our citizens that we intend to improve Member States' record in ensuring respect for equal treatment, irrespective of age, race, disability and sexual orientation. For individuals in my constituency this legislation is long overdue. However, I regret that some of the Christian Democrat Members in the Committee on Legal Affairs, in voting against the employment directive, saw it as unnecessary because it would, and I quote: "restrict freedom of choice in private life". But I ask you: whose freedom? The freedom of those who continue to discriminate against individuals? That is a freedom that this House should not seek to protect – it is neither Christian nor democratic! In addition, their view is that cases of discrimination are not so numerous as to warrant any legislation. Perhaps they ought to talk more to their local constituents and those who suffer from discrimination. It is also best to give local examples to show how this legislation is relevant. In my constituency a retired head teacher from Manchester who is over 70 years of age, with much experience, was appointed to serve on the police authority by Manchester City Council. Following a complaint about her age, she was told she was too old to take up the position and not eligible, according to the current British Police Act. This legislation, therefore, is good for individuals like her. UK employment legislation will now have to be reviewed to ensure that ability, not age, determines who gets the job. Indeed the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, is now reviewing the legislation to remove such anomalies of discrimination. Discrimination, in whatever forms it exists, whichever group it affects, is wasteful and unacceptable, as the Confederation of British Industry has said. Again I quote: "some enlightened employers are realising the potential of employing people from right across the board, from all walks of life. In another company in my constituency, B[amp]Q, the grey revolution has begun. In Macclesfield one of their stores is staffed by only over 50 year olds and their oldest employee is 86! I think that is a very good example to follow. This legislation will encourage employers to seek to use the talents, the ability, the experience of all people in our society. It is the biggest overhaul of discriminatory legislation that we will ever see in Europe and back in our own Member States. Yes, it will create changes in employment law, yes, it will create changes in general legislation and for the courts, but I do not believe this Parliament or the European Union can shy away from making those changes which will open up a world of opportunity for groups which have suffered for too long from the cancer of discrimination. Mr President, the Group has not tabled an amendment to ban doorstep selling, but rather to make it subject to conditions in terms of unsolicited negotiation of credit or doorstep selling. As it is not a ban, we should be able to vote on it. – I am pleased to see that the Commissioner has, along with my own Secretary of State for Trade and Industry, Mr Byers, formed the impression that the European car industry has indeed taken UK consumers for a ride. But I have to say that I cannot agree with you that it is a simple exchange rate issue because it would not account for the fact that some cars cost around four thousand pounds more in the UK than they do, for example, in the Netherlands. If it were only a question of the exchange rate, then prices should also go down with exchange rate variables. Why then, for example, do imported cars – which now represent over 70% of the UK market – get dearer as the pound is getting stronger? How do UK car manufacturers export record numbers of cars to the continent at a time when exporting is more expensive? Why are cars built in the UK cheaper on the continent just as our pound is making our exports more expensive? I am afraid I do not accept the logic of this wholly. I believe – after an 18 months' investigation by a UK newspaper, following your investigation – that time is running out and the car industry now wants to find a settlement to this issue. If I were to arrange a round table with the industry – with dealers and manufacturers – would you be willing to come along to it and discuss with them how we can find a way through the problem while, at the same time, resorting to competition instruments if we have to? – Mr President, I believe that overall the German Presidency was a very positive period. In particular I should like to thank them on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, and indeed the Socialist Members, for the very good work that was done throughout that period on the reform of the structural fund process. We believe that we have a fair and just deal for Member States. In particular I would like to thank the Germans for not only pushing ahead for progress in peace concerning Kosovo, but peace on the issues concerning Northern Ireland. This House will know that we have entered yet again a critical phase in the peace process in Northern Ireland. Successive Presidencies have backed that peace process. What I should like to say today at this inaugural session is that we hope to be able to count on our new Commission President, on the Finnish President-in-Office of the Council and indeed on Madam Fontaine to continue that good work in supporting the peace process and making a priority of peace in her visits to Northern Ireland. I should like to thank my colleagues, particularly Mrs Fourtou, Mr Oreja, Mr Manders and Mrs Echerer, for supporting this initiative for a written declaration. I want to thank all Members who signed it, even if at times they felt overwhelmed by our enthusiasm and over-zealous attempts at persuasion. It is clear that piracy has now reached epidemic proportions in Europe and poses severe risks to consumer health and safety, with fake toys, medicines and spare parts coming into the EU. In 2002 alone seizure of such goods doubled in the European Union. I believe that this declaration sends a strong signal from this House to Member States and to accession countries to act to crack down on piracy. Parliament has now called for action, with this majority support. The Italian presidency should now take up this issue and put it to the top of their agenda. We hope that Member States will not ignore or dismiss this House's wish for action. – Mr President, I too welcome the Harbour report, even if we are attempting tonight to deliver the promise at a time when most people are tucked up in bed. I am very grateful to Mr Harbour, not only for being so magnanimous in his comments about the work I carried out on this report, but also for taking on so many of the numerous amendments I tabled. I am particularly grateful to him for taking up my initiative calling upon the Member States, at the Spring Summit, to reaffirm their commitment to delivering the promise of a single market by signing up to a solemn declaration in this, the single market's tenth anniversary year. I hope the Greek Presidency and the Commission can take up this initiative. Such an initiative is needed because if Member States were to be given the equivalent of an end of term school report, there would be no gold stars for model pupils. Rather, they would receive the comment 'could do better'. In fact, they could do much better. The November scoreboard illustrates our failure to deliver. We are failing businesses by not reducing barriers; we are failing consumers, who in many sectors are not seeing the benefits of more choice and cheaper goods; and finally we are sliding backwards in terms of our attempt to achieve the goal of becoming the world's most competitive economy by 2010. Future scoreboards must not only quantify the benefits of single market laws, they should, as Mr Harbour suggested, include an index of damage illustrating the costs of non-implementation. The Commission should undertake a rigorous evaluation of why Member States are failing to implement, and it must identify the root cause. Is it simply a case of national protectionism? Is it due to concern for consumer protection, or to a lack of administrative capacity in Member States? I agree that there should be strong sanctions for non-implementation, swift action, tight deadlines and effective deterrents to non-implementation. Otherwise I fear, Commissioner, that we will be here in ten years' time talking about the need to complete the internal market. Achieving a single market in financial services in one fell swoop could boost EU growth by 1.1%. It would add EUR 130 billion to Europe's wealth and reduce the cost of raising capital for business by 0.5%. The takeover directive, as I know you agree, Commissioner, is a key component of financial services in single markets. I agree that we in this Parliament should get it onto the statute book as soon as possible. – Mr President, we all agree on the need to allow companies across Europe to run the EU-wide sales promotions. Sales promotions are key tools to marketing goods and services and we need to get rid of restrictions and barriers so as to allow business and consumers to exploit the opportunities of the internal market. In the UK it is commonplace that consumers can and do benefit from sales promotions, for example coupon vouchers. In 2000, for example, 531 million coupons were redeemed in the UK; between 1999 and 2000 there was a 122.5% increase in consumer use of Internet coupons and promotions. So they are popular and we need to regulate and open up this area for consumers and business. It is, however, important that the Commission addresses some of the concerns of Members of the European Parliament and of my political group on the issue of sales below cost in particular. We also tabled the amendment to require the Commission to come forward with a study in this area. There are legitimate concerns, because sometimes sales below cost can be abused to squeeze out competitors by means of predatory pricing; this does not help small business, nor does it help the consumer. That is why, in the spirit of better legislation called for by Commissioner Prodi recently, my group will give the Commission conditional support for the regulation if it agrees to carry out an evaluation study to examine exactly how sales below cost can benefit both small businesses and consumers. This study should also address the need to strengthen competition policy instruments to prevent predatory pricing and its unwanted side effects. The internal market should not be a free-for-all for big business, leading to SMEs being squeezed out of markets with the result that consumers have less choice. We must also make sure that the information requirements in the annex are clear. It is important that business is clear about its obligations to provide information on promotions. It is also important that consumers have sufficient information and legal redress, either through the law courts or through ADR systems. The PSE Group has therefore tabled an amendment asking the Commission to work in consultation with consumer groups and industry to ensure the clear and unambiguous execution of the information requirements. As they are currently drafted, they are misleading and have led both to business lobbying MEPs and complaining about the lack of clarity and to consumers letting us know that there are information gaps. If this regulation is to achieve legal certainty then the requirements must be clear. However, I agree with the Commissioner that the answer is not, as the PPE-DE Group has proposed, to delete those requirements and, like the Commission, we will be voting against those deletions. The PSE Group has taken a strong line to protect minors against harmful promotions relating to alcohol and tobacco. I hope those will be taken on board. Finally, a very brief point on mutual recognition. I personally believe that mutual recognition already works. Every day on the Internet, cross-border sales and business are alive and thriving, using the principle of mutual recognition. We cannot bury our heads in the sand and deny the fact that this is already happening. Mr President, research carried out in the UK on consumer credit awareness has demonstrated very clearly that consumers need clear, consistent information to be able to make informed comparisons of the products on offer. It is true that, owing to innovation and evolution, many of today's products offer the consumer more choice and flexibility, but many are difficult for consumers to understand: 56% of consumers in the UK did not understand the terms used in credit agreements, 77% find the language in advertising confusing and while 68% are aware that lenders do not calculate APR in the same way, they do not know how the system works and find it difficult to price one loan against another, which makes it difficult for them to shop around for the best deals. More importantly, it also means that credit providers are under less pressure to keep their prices and offers competitive. If this is the case in just one Member State, imagine what the situation is like across 25. This is why the directive must provide maximum levels of consumer protection as regards advertising, information and rules on the calculation of APR and a high level of consumer protection and redress. I would like to pinpoint two areas that the Commission should look at more seriously. Firstly, joint and several liability. In the UK, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act provides for remedies and redress. I understand what the Commissioner is saying: Member States can go further. However, I do not want this directive to be used as an excuse for credit providers to opt out of the very high consumer protection that is already offered in other Member States. Cooperatives and credit unions were also mentioned. I am delighted that the rapporteur has taken on board the amendment drafted by Mr Crowley and myself. It is true that credit unions provide a very important service in that they not only offer affordable loans, but also help the poorer elements of the community – the deprived and people on low income – to stay out of the clutches of loan sharks. I fear that if the regulations proposed in this directive were to be applied those consumers in poorer areas would end up with no credit unions and no option but to turn to loan sharks. The PSE voting list tomorrow will reflect our desire not only to see the opening-up of a consumer credit market in this area but also to achieve the highest possible level of consumer protection for consumers right across Europe. – Mr President, can I too add my congratulations to the rapporteur. There can be no doubt that the job of the Parliament tomorrow is without further ado to vote through the report unanimously. Commission, Parliament and Council have had ample time to discuss and debate at both first and second reading and, as the rapporteur said, most of Parliament’s views now feature in the Council common position. It is therefore a balanced proposal. Let us remind ourselves that the Lisbon special EU Summit in March set us new targets and deadlines to make better use of the Internet, strengthening Europe’s competitiveness in the knowledge economy. This therefore means we need to create a clear and simple, predictable and consistent legal framework for electronic commerce. It is now an economic and political imperative. The directive will go a significant way towards creating the framework which is necessary to provide the confidence that both business and consumers desire to maximise the potential of business. From the wealth of letters and comments that I have received as a member of the Legal Affairs Committee, I know it is not possible to please all interested parties. Concerns still exist but I believe that Council, Commission and Parliament have struck the right balance between the need to protect public policy and consumers and at the same time promote and support the growth of -business. I therefore strongly recommend that Parliament endorses and adopts Mrs Palacio’s report, which represents a common position. We do this in the full knowledge that the -economy is evolving at a rapid pace. We are witnessing in the 21st century the equivalent of the Industrial Revolution. That means, as policymakers and institutions, we are still navigating our way through uncharted terrain. We need therefore to continue, as Mr Harbour said, to have a full consultation and debate on both the outstanding and arising issues for business and consumers. In particular, this is the case given the global nature of -commerce. We have in this directive an article which allows us to do that. Article 21 of the common position provides for a review and we should use the time until then to deepen and further our knowledge on this critical sector of the European economy. I would warn against complacency. We need to continue to consult with interested parties in this debate and we need to ensure that the result is a national legislation and that we produce clear, appropriate and speedy legislation. – Madam President, after that intervention inspired by naked self-interest, may I come back to more important matters of the day. I would like to support my colleague, Mr Cashman, and in particular point out that this Parliament has been a very active supporter of the peace and reconciliation process in Northern Ireland. It has been a long, and at times faltering, road to achieving peace and no one knows that better than our own Nobel Peace Prizewinner, John Hume. I grew up in Northern Ireland in the shadow of violence, terrorism and intimidation. We are now witnessing another milestone in the return to peace for future generations. May I ask you therefore to write on behalf of the European Parliament to all those involved and congratulate them on this major initiative? I would also hope that the Belgium presidency would do the same on behalf of the Council for the 15 Member States. – Mr President, I too would like to congratulate Mr Collins on his excellent report and indeed for accepting my amendments on the health aspects of air travel. Brenda Wilson is a Greater Manchester constituent of mine who is an active campaigner for the Aviation Health Institute, an organisation working internationally to improve air passenger health. Tragically her son Neil died of a deep-vein thrombosis after a short flight to Benidorm. He is one of an alleged 2000 air travellers who, according to some in the medical profession, die each year from deep-vein thrombosis, not just long haul, not just economy class, and therefore there is growing concern about the potential link between air travel and blood clots. The research is ambiguous. The World Health Organisation is putting GBP 7 million into research and I am asking you tonight to give your commitment to a European Union study to look at potential links between DVT and air travel and preventative action. I am also asking the Commission to take up the idea in my amendment on improved health briefings and health warnings on tickets in advance of flying. This will allow passengers, as consumers, to exercise the choice perhaps not to drink alcohol, perhaps to take aspirin three or four days before flying or to wear these new compression socks which help regulate blood flow in the legs. There is no need to be an alarmist. We know that air travel is safe but there is nonetheless a small risk for some passengers that they may develop blood clots. We owe it to our European passengers to increase our knowledge and science in this area. I would like your assurance that you will now respond to our call for research and meet as a matter of priority with the aviation industry to look at improved health warnings on tickets. We are in favour of voluntary action but if it is true that the airlines have known for 30 years about the risks of DVT then maybe we need legislation. .  I would like to add my voice to those condemning the acts of violence against one of my constituents, James Mawdsley from Ormskirk in Lancashire. I welcome the vote by this Parliament deploring the flagrant violations of James' rights under UN international law. Mark Rowland of Jubilee Campaign will be absolutely delighted that the European Parliament has joined the UN in condemning his treatment. We must continue to condemn human rights abuses in Burma. We, as elected Members, are outraged that 51 democratically elected members of the NLD are in prison, victims like James, of inhuman and cruel abuse. James' only crime was to speak up for and campaign for human rights and democracy in Burma. He should be commended for his efforts, which have caused him and his family such torment. We must urge the ASEM countries in this resolution to pressurise the military regime in Burma to restore democracy. – Mr President, it has been said that this is a very important, crucial piece of legislation we have before us. It is at the heart of the EU financial services action plan. But, more than that, the bigger prize is that we are able to take forward the Lisbon agenda of creating a competitive, dynamic European economy. For that we need an efficient market in goods, services and capital. Mr Bolkestein, I share your concerns: we cannot afford to risk losing this directive, because the EU economy would pay the opportunity cost for years of not being able to restructure European companies. Yet the amendments tabled by our rapporteur will take us in that direction. I fear it will undermine the effect of corporate restructuring necessary to build that EU competitiveness in global markets. If we are to achieve global excellence in, for example, the telecoms sector, we must ensure that recent take-overs such as Vodafone, Mannesmann, France Telecom, Orange, will show that European models work, cannot be blocked by hostile action or poison pills. That would be turning our back on the opportunity to achieve the competitiveness that we desire. My delegation of Labour MEPs cannot accept, therefore, the changes in Article 9 to allow company boards the right to defensive measures to frustrate takeovers without getting shareholder approval. Mr Bolkestein himself has said that it is crucial that the management of target companies consult shareholders in this case. Our primary objective must be to protect our investors, to ensure a fair and equal bidding process. It must be to ensure efficient flow in capital markets; and we must not end up by producing legislation which protects potentially inefficient managers and props up failing companies. That is in nobody's interest. It will result in investors not seeing the EU as an integrated capital market; it will undermine investor confidence and it will result in capital flow out of Europe. The rapporteur's amendments create confusion in the area of litigation and it would be wrong of us to vote for confusion in potential litigation cases. I have to say that I cannot understand Mr Lehne's approach in the British , where he has himself agreed that his compromise is unworkable, but that he put it in to keep the socialists happy and he is prepared to take it out in conciliation. That is not acceptable. – Mr President, as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market I object to Mr Lechner's attempt to mislead this House on an interim court ruling that has come out of the European Court of Justice on the ban on tobacco advertising, not on health warnings, which is what we voted on yesterday. Mr Lechner should be aware that the judgement is interim and that we will not have a final judgement until the autumn. Furthermore, the Legal Affairs Committee ignored the advice of Parliament's legal services that the legal base for this directive was correct. I can understand Mr Lechner's frustration as he and some of the members of his group worked closely with industry to try and frustrate this resolution, but we cannot have the politics of the press release overturning decisions of this House. – Mr President, I also want to address a rigid Commission policy. As a result of a recent competition policy decision, over EUR 1 billion of much-needed UK regional regeneration investment in poor urban areas and derelict sites has been cut by 75%. Following the conclusions of the Belgian informal meeting in October, the Commission must now undertake a review of the operation of state aids and regional regeneration policy. Can the Commissioner please state what follow-up action has been taken? Can it also reassure us that competition policy will not continue to undermine the legitimate efforts of regional and cohesion policies? Secondly, unlike my Conservative colleague, Mr Purvis, I do not believe that we should take a rigid view of the reform of funding post-2006 at this stage. Poorer regions such as Merseyside in my region, and in the rest of the EU 15, may continue to need Objective 1 funding, but more importantly than that, today a delegation of trade unionists from Manchester came to Strasbourg to fight to save 650 jobs threatened due to industrial restructuring. Last year 9 500 jobs were lost in the manufacturing sector in the region alone. Can the Commissioner therefore tonight give his support for the continuation of a strong role for European assistance post-2006 for our urban and industrial restructuring regions as well as our poorest regions? – Madam President, much has been said, but as a child who grew up in Belfast and spent thirty of my thirty-nine years in the violent conflict in my homeland, I personally want to mark today’s historic occasion. It is a historic day. I am deliberately sitting in John Hume’s seat today because, as a Nobel Prize Winner from this Parliament who has devoted his whole life to securing the peace process, I think it is important that we honour him since he is recuperating at home in Northern Ireland.  It is important to say today that the will of the people has been done in Northern Ireland. 71% of the people voted for peace, the politicians on all sides have been big enough to deliver that will of the people for future generations. I have to say in my case perhaps it was too late. I left Northern Ireland because there was no future, no jobs, no opportunities for young people, but I am delighted that today the future generations will have those opportunities, and Europe has played a critical role in that process. – Mr President, we need to be clear about what we are trying to achieve in this directive. This directive, as a piece of intellectual property legislation, must try to incorporate structures to reward the creative industries, which in my own Member State alone contribute GBP 60 billion to our national economy and GBP 8 billion of exports. They also employ 1.4 million people. At the same time we must not strangle or restrict freedom of access for legitimate users. This fits in with the EU action plan and the forthcoming summit in Stockholm. The fact is that the Internet genie is out of the bottle. We cannot stop technology, but neither can we allow it to render copyright dead or to let it be abused as a safe haven for piracy, parasites and mass illegal copying. Yesterday's Napster ruling clearly showed that copyright has to be applied to cyberspace. We must not encourage people to infringe copyright. The composition of the compromise amendments tabled by the rapporteur has maintained this balance between rightholders and users effectively. The exceptions which currently exist in Article 5 mean that the generous provisions on exceptions that we have in the UK will continue to help vulnerable users and ensure that schools, libraries and research and education institutions can benefit from private copying. In the UK we also record programmes so that we are able to watch at the time and place we choose and that, of course, needs to remain intact. It is however regrettable that some unnecessary, unhelpful amendments have crept in at the last stage in committee. I refer to: Amendment No 11, which seeks to give an exemption to broadcasting companies which no one else enjoys and which would reduce performers' and artists' rights in contravention of the WIPO Treaty; and Amendment No 4 which, in the second part, introduces an unnecessary and unwarranted EU restriction of the freedom of national courts to decide how to deal with injunctions, in particular concerning piracy, and amendments on levies. While this is well-intentioned, we cannot support this approach because it could be interpreted, taken in a vague sense, to mean that levies should always be introduced when you have no technical protection in place. The UK does not operate a system of levies and we do not want to see it introduced through the back door. Finally, as with every other piece of legislation on the Internet that comes before us in this House, we should use the provisions of the directive, the review clause in Article 12 and the role of the contact committee to prevent both the abuse of private copying and any abuse or limitation on fair use. Mr President, from 2000 to 2006, my Member State, the UK, will have received over EUR 9 billion in direct EU structural fund support, topped up with match funding and private sector support. No-one can deny the benefits funds have brought to poor communities in industrial, urban and rural areas. The Hatzidakis report and the Commission proposals prove that the Jeremiahs who say that enlargement is bad news for UK regions have got it wrong. I want to congratulate the Commission in coming forward with proposals which, in a spirit of solidarity, provide funding for those areas of the EU-15 – including the UK – that are still in need. The devil will be in the detail, of course, and we still have a long way to go to agree a new round of regional aid programmes. However, this report and these proposals indicate that our poorest regions could win twice over from enlargement, with a bigger internal market and a continuation of regional aid. Labour MEPs have worked closely with our regional representatives, with local councils and with trade unions to identify our priorities. We welcome proposals for the convergence fund, in particular the inclusion of so-called 'statistical effect' regions, and we hope that regions being phased out will not be left high and dry, but will find a soft financial landing. We welcome the proposals to assist regional competitiveness in former Objective 2 areas and we look forward to hearing more details on how this will be allocated and on the indicators used to identify those areas. I would ask the Commission to further elaborate on its proposals, as requested in the Hatzidakis report on state aid. It is important that we have equality in the provision of state aid for all convergence regions, including the statistical effect areas. We need a reform of state aids which enables more public private partnership activity in regeneration, particularly of urban areas, of derelict land sites and of buildings. I wish today to endorse Mr Hatzidakis' proposal. I hope that Member States, the Commission and Parliament will now come up with a comprehensive budget and a regional aid package which will be a good deal for taxpayers and a good deal for our poorest regions. – Mr President, this common position was again voted through with a narrow majority. The Commission and the rapporteur have failed to recognise that the art trade is a global business and would be better regulated by an international agreement. We now fear that the art market will go offshore. The Commission, again, has failed to commit itself to entering international negotiations to get an international deal on ,claiming that it feels it does not have a mandate in this area. It now does have a mandate with the voting through and the start of the conciliation procedure. The Commission has also failed spectacularly to give us any analysis of the economic impact of the directive before us. This leads us to conclude that it is not proven to be necessary to complete the single market. It cannot, therefore, be the objective of this Parliament to undermine the European art market and in conciliation I hope now that the Member States and Commission will be able to maintain the common position. The amendments that Mr Zimmerling has tabled will deal a death blow to the vitality to the European art market, with loss of jobs and, I fear, very few living artists benefiting from this resale right. – Madam President, can I welcome the forbearance and patience shown by the Commissioner's staff during the last seven months. Many of us do not understand why this could not have been done in seven minutes, because it is clear that we have principles. Like many of my colleagues I am interested in the impact on clubs in the north-west of England, which is, after all, the home of football. We still have no answer on the issue of training compensation. Clubs in my region are concerned that the money they invest in buying players will not give them a return on their investment and, as Mr Cushnahan said, they will not be interested in running football academies and in investing in the local community if they cannot see a return on their investment. So far I cannot see how training compensation is going to deliver that. In today's newspaper UEFA and FIFA are clearly indicating that this will lead to lower transfer fees, which has a knock-on impact, particularly for smaller clubs in my area. Commissioner, you have a review clause, which will be tried for two seasons – do you then intend to act to ensure that there is a free and good flow of transfer of money between clubs or will it be left to governing bodies to act in this area? Now that we have closed this chapter, Commissioner, can I also extend an invitation to you to visit the north-west to see one of the premier teams play football. They would be very happy for you to visit us in the north-west. Mr President, I object on the basis that we reserve the right to vote on an amendment that allows us to have no lower threshold. This combination means that there would be a minimum threshold of 500 combining with a Socialist upper threshold. We do not want a lower threshold, so we cannot accept this compromise. – I should like to congratulate the Commissioner on the win by his home team in football today. I want to follow in a similar vein to the previous speaker. We welcome the proposals in the Green Paper. However, Commissioner, you will agree that your ideas are progressing very fast in this area. In the light of the proposals on better government that came out last week, which Mr Harbour mentioned, I want to ask you three specific questions. What improvements do you intend to make in terms of consultation of all the actors involved – consumers, SMEs, and the government departments that will have to implement any particular laws that emerge from this? How do you intend to improve the evaluation of the impact assessment in terms of cost? Can you guarantee to make available all consultations on the web so that these will be available for consultation? I would like to thank your staff for providing me with previous consultations. However, it has to be said that they are all in different languages. I cannot read all of them; and if there is to be transparency on these issues they need to be available publicly on the web and in languages that people can understand. – Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs let me state in very clear and simple terms the position of the committee as we voted; (a) to ban all phthalates and (b) as a consequence to delete all labelling, since if you prohibit all phthalates you do not need labelling. As the rapporteur, I share the concerns of the Members of Parliament in my committee. As elected politicians we clearly cannot afford to play fast and loose with children's health. We must ensure that they are not exposed to unnecessary and unacceptable health risks and acknowledge the public concern on this issue. In the interests of the single market we must achieve the highest common standards for product safety. We also need legislation which cannot be undermined or discredited by legal challenges. This debate has unfortunately been clouded by confusion and uncertainty fuelled by comments in Parliament from Scientific Committee members who doubted the need for any ban on phthalates and questioned whether the health risks are serious or immediate enough to warrant a ban. As politicians we need clear advice from scientific committees if we are to make rational judgements, take the necessary risk management measures and produce good legislation. In this case we have not been able to do that effectively because of the gaps in our knowledge, and so my committee understandably decided to go for a blanket ban. Nor do we have any information on substitutes to plasticisers which might have toxic or chronic effects. I believe that this legislation shows us that we need action on a number of areas: (a) we urgently need to continue work on migration testing and research into chronic toxicity and the behaviour of children; (b) we need to review and update this legislation periodically and as gaps in knowledge are filled, where necessary add new substances to the ban in the Commission's legislation. We need to formalise and accept the permanent ban which the Commission is proposing now and we need stringent health warnings and labelling to inform our consumers of the risks. We have to answer to the public on the legislation that we produce in Parliament, and we cannot afford to be complacent about risks to children's health. The EPLP delegation voted in favour of the compromise resolution on additionality because we believe that the principle of additionality is one of the core fundamental pillars of the structural funds reforms, for which I was Parliament’s rapporteur. However, I believe that parts of this resolution, rather than bringing clarity to the rules, will only serve to confuse the general public and in particular funding operators. Paragraph A continues to confuse the principle of additionality with the separate but equally important principle of co-financing. Paragraph G is inaccurate. There is no regulatory requirement to check additionality on an annual basis, but as stated in the regulation, simplification requires three checks on additionality during the programming period. It is inappropriate for Members to try with this resolution to rewrite regulations which were agreed unanimously by this Parliament and will be up for review in 2006. More disappointing is the naked party political games which British Members Mr Davies, Mr Bradbourn and Mrs Evans have attempted in this resolution. This will not serve the best interests of our poorest communities, with deliberate misinformation and hijacking this debate for narrow party political advantage. Our real goal must be to plan and give our support to the successful implementation of these funds to improve the life prospects of people in our poorest regions. My party is committed to this goal and will work with other parties in a constructive and positive way to achieve this. – Mr President, some 15 years ago, as a young academic, I applied for and was offered a post at the Free University of Berlin. As a result of the problem of mutual recognition of qualifications, many months passed before I was able to take up my position. This directive must, I believe, ensure that professionals do not face the same uncertainty and obstacles I encountered in exercising the right, as an EU citizen, to exercise one's profession in the single market. Moreover, if the Commissioner's new plan for a radical freeing-up of the market for cross-border services is to succeed, the free movement of skilled professionals will be vital to it. Specific safeguards are necessary in the health care sector. I too tabled amendments to abolish the 16-week rule. I thank the rapporteur and the committee for supporting those amendments. It is true that the rule would possibly have allowed bogus health care professionals and those struck off for malpractice to work in another Member State without having to register with the host country's regulatory body. Mr Bowis mentioned the case of Dr Shipman, a doctor in my constituency who may have murdered up to 200 patients after forcing some of them to change their wills in his favour. However, Dr Shipman was not struck off for malpractice and he was never identified as a problem by the UK's own regulatory body. Patient health and safety must be paramount, but it must not be an excuse to block the free movement of professionals. I know that Commissioner Bolkestein is sensitive to this issue. In the UK, the legacy of a Conservative government is an acute shortage of doctors. It makes no sense to have barriers to free movement, but I hope that the final directive gets the balance right between allowing and encouraging the free movement of health care professionals, plus automatic recognition of rights for more than 50 categories of medical specialist – in particular much-needed cancer specialists, and continuing to safeguard patient health and safety. – Mr President, in today's world it is clear that consumers are more informed and more demanding. They have higher expectations and are not always after the cheapest price. They want quality and after-sales service and they want to be clear about their rights and remedies for redress. In an ideal world, responsible businesses would respond to consumer needs. Some would say that the vast majority do, and if that were the case, then we would not need to legislate. But we need to protect the consumer from the cowboy operators, those who engage in sharp practice, and the rip-off merchants. The legislators' dilemma is to produce good effective law which protects the consumer, while allowing business to thrive in a dynamic and competitive environment. The current corporate social responsibility debate offers business the opportunity to improve its consumer protection as a good business model and selling point, to help business gain the competitive edge and bring commercial benefits, while providing added value to the consumer. If we want the internal market to work we need flanking measures to promote consumer confidence, particularly in cross-border shopping, and we know that in online shopping consumers still have a tendency to buy in their own home market. In introducing a general clause on fair trading, the detail of the directive will be vital if it is to work for the benefit of consumers and not to be perceived by businesses as more red tape and bureaucracy. We need simple, better-focused legislation which is easier to enforce. As you know, Commissioner, the concept of fairness differs between Member States, depending on their different legal systems. In those countries which operate a general clause, we also know that operates differently. This presents you with the challenge of finding a common approach. I know that, as a skilled lawyer, you are committed to ensuring legal certainty for both business and consumers. We need to ensure that the impact of any future directive furthers rather than fragments the internal market as Member States interpret, implement or enforce such a directive to fit in with their own different national approaches. The consumer is already faced with fragmented regulations and enforcement. The bottom line is that consumers need to know what redress they can expect if they are the victims of sharp practice or rip-offs, while business needs to operate in a competitive world. Businesses need to be clear about the standards and practices they must aspire to in order to be able to deliver on this directive. I personally favour cracking down on misleading and deceptive practices rather than attempting to achieve a common definition of fair commercial practice. I welcome the Commission's proposal of establishing codes of conduct and self-regulation, not as a soft touch, or replacement for legislation, but as a means of enabling us to respond quickly to sharp practice when it occurs faster than the law can keep up. As Commissioner Prodi has said, all European institutions need to step up their commitment to simplify regulations in order to reduce the cost of doing business in Europe and increase legal certainty for citizens. In the Thyssen report Parliament has made it clear that it wants to see an extended impact study in this area. Commissioner, you have mentioned three studies and you have been very clear about the benefits of this directive. You have been less clear about the potential cost of this directive to business. It is important that we explain to business what its obligations are and what it has to do to achieve your consumer protection objectives. .As rapporteur, I supported the thrust of amendments tabled with a view to getting a clearer definition of what is patentable and limits to ensure that pure software is not patentable. It remains to be seen in the analysis of the votes whether this objective has been achieved. We await a common position from Council and Commission. This will be difficult to achieve as Parliament's amendments will inevitably be seen to go well beyond the legal situation as regards the patenting of computer-implemented inventions and may indeed put us at odds with our obligations under TRIPs. I continue to express my concerns that this EU directive should not undermine the competitiveness and innovation of our brightest and best companies in Europe, in particular by putting EU business and industry at a disadvantage in the global marketplace. It would be folly if our companies as a result of Parliament's amendments could not protect their innovation, enforce patents or gain a return on their R[amp]D investment. It would be contrary to our economic interests if we allowed the US and Japan to dominate markets as a result of their patent protection, while Europe's companies are squeezed out. – Mr President, firstly I would like to respond on behalf of Mr Cashman who is a Socialist Group shadow on this report and cannot attend this evening. He would like to inform the House that the PSE Group welcomes this report and the measures in it intended to prevent the activities of hooligans and organised thugs at matches. We will, however, need to monitor the way these monitoring centres carry out their functions to ensure that the football community is fully engaged in the exchange of information. Most important of all is the need to ensure adequate resources both in financial and personnel terms. It would be wrong to raise expectations to a level which cannot be met. We can, of course, defeat hooliganism. The proposals indicate we have the will to do the job, but the resources must follow. Then I would like to intervene personally in this debate. I too would like to add my support to Mr Deprez's report and its amendments, specifically, his amendment 10 calling for closer cooperation and an organised exchange of information. If the European network of national football information centres is to be effective, then we need to address the current weaknesses in the system of information exchange and ad hoc contacts. On Friday, I visited the football intelligence unit in the Greater Manchester police service. Unfortunately, we have a wealth of experience and expertise in tackling football-related violence in my city. The assistant Chief Constable of Greater Manchester Police has read this report and he welcomes the initiative in the light of what he calls "different standards in dealing, for example, with Manchester United away fixtures and England away fixtures". On Friday the unit was preparing for two key matches on Saturday. One of those was Oldham versus Stoke City: the last time these two teams had met, known hooligans had rampaged through the town, wrecking property and attacking people. In the UK we have pro-active football legislation to deal with our hooligan problems. This allows us to impose banning orders; so, when a hundred of those fans arrived in Oldham, they were immediately arrested because they are banned from attending any matches. Those banning orders also apply to international matches. The football intelligence unit has a sophisticated database of so-called 'football prominents', using the latest digital image technology to update and record cases. Let me tell you where the unit believes the EU information exchange system has to do better: 150 fans were deported from Charleroi in June 2000. Among those arriving in Manchester airport were Belgian nationals, some of whom may not have been involved in any hooliganism at all. Rounding up and deportation without prosecution does nothing to help the intelligence network on hooliganism. A list of, and report on, the deportees was then sent to the intelligence unit: very helpful as far as it went, but the report contained no information. Officers could not read it because it was not in English, and they could not act on it because the information did not allow for any further action due to prosecution or conviction. During Euro 1996, German fans arrived in Manchester. As a result of German data protection and privacy laws, no lists of known hooligans could be passed on to the local intelligence forces and the officers working in the unit therefore had no information accessible in a usable format to tackle the hooligans. So there is an issue here, Commissioner, in that we do need to standardise our information formats while recognising that there are different cultures on policing and information collection across the EU. Perhaps we need to consider some form of information protocol. This was the idea of my own football intelligence unit officers. We need to deal with hooliganism pro-actively not re-actively. On the issue of cost, which is an amendment tabled by Mrs Sanders-Ten Holte, no doubt it would be useful to have a study on whether clubs should pay more for the policing of hooliganism. The difficulty is, however, who pays those costs after hours in cities where football hooligans are still engaged in activities. In 2004 we will be hosting the final of the European championships at Old Trafford in Manchester. Our priority has to be to protect the law-abiding supporter and clamp down on hooligans who spoil the game. We need a practical, pro-active approach to information sharing for national monitoring centres. Their existence alone, Commissioner, will not guarantee the end of football hooliganism. – I should like to congratulate the Commissioner on steering this package, which was not entirely unanimous, through the Commission so skilfully. The same problems exist in the UK: 52 models examined in the UK are still more expensive. My question is the same as Mrs Riis-Jørgensen's. If we have the partial reforms that the Commissioner is proposing here today, and we carry those out in opening up the market to grey trade supermarkets, in particular Internet sales, is it not the case that the block exemption becomes obsolete, and when will the day be when we actually get rid of these rules? Finally, Commissioner, in 1999 I asked you a question in response to which you told me that cars in Britain would be cheaper if Britain joined the euro. Is that still your position, and what difference do you think that would make in terms of price differentials? – Mr President, the job Parliament has here today is quite simple: to adopt or reject the compromise achieved in conciliation. What did we achieve in conciliation? Out of 15 amendments tabled in second reading, compromises were reached on 11. In this House we have a duty to deal with the facts, not to listen to the jungle drums beating from misinformed sources. I welcome the changes in amendments, made by my own political group, to recognise the legitimate interests of employees in a takeover bid. Here the common text has been modified from a requirement to provide new information to a requirement to provide information to employees at three points in the directive: in Article 6(1), Article 6(2) and Article 9(1d). There are minimum standards. There is nothing to prevent boards of companies or Member States going further than the requirements in this directive, nor does it prejudice obligations to inform and consult under either national or EU directives. We can only, in conciliation, go as far as amendments allow us in second reading. No amendments were tabled requiring the board of a company to consult prior to a takeover bid. It is no secret that Article 9, and the right of boards to take defensive action without shareholder approval, was the bone of contention in conciliation. But is simply not true to state that the board of a company faced with a hostile takeover cannot take action or is obliged to remain neutral or passive. Defensive and frustrating action is possible with shareholder approval. Indeed, our amendments to the common position mean that a board can get fast-track approval in 14 days. I have always believed that politics is the art of the possible. In conciliation the Council and the Commission stuck to their key objective in this directive, of protecting the minority shareholders, protecting the interests of investors and defending shareholders against unscrupulous directors and inefficient company boards. Article 9 and restrictions on frustrating action was the Holy Grail of this text. Therefore we had no scope to rewrite it to allow unapproved poison pill action. But we did achieve a deal on Article 9: we forced the Commission and the Council to freeze the article and to have a group of company law experts to examine key issues, and to come back to Parliament in March 2002. This also includes – as the Commissioner can confirm – the possibility of reviewing Article 9 in the light of the findings of that group. The entry into force of this directive is therefore postponed and Member States can postpone compliance with Article 9 until 2006. My delegation will vote for this directive. . – Mr President, I did not want to make this point during my speech, but it is necessary that it should be made. In the ten years that I have been an MEP I have never encountered such a personal, aggressive and abusive campaign as I have with this particular directive. I have been bullied and harassed by lobbyists. My staff have been bullied to the extent that one of them had to take days off with a stress-related illness. I am now asking you, Mr President, to ensure that you conduct the vote tomorrow in an orderly way, to ensure that Parliament and its Members are permitted to vote as they are empowered to do by their democratic mandate to draft and make legislation. – Madam President, I also welcome today's vote on copyright and the information society. This has been a very controversial and difficult area to legislate in but today we have achieved a victory for common sense. We can be confident that in our vote we are providing – for example, in Amendment No 5 – protection for rightholders against potential Internet piracy and we have also knocked out some amendments tabled by the PPE-DE Group which would have been very damaging for rightholders. At the same time we are not denying access of citizens to the brave new world of the information society and, in particular, to the more disadvantaged users and communities. Today's vote means that we can now sign up to the WIPO Treaty and we can give international copyright protection to our creative industries. The computer games industry in my own region represents a third of the computer games world market. We need to protect these industries which create jobs and boost our economy – not just locally, but in the European domain. We can now look forward to future reviews of legislation and the work of the contact committee to ensure that there is no violation or abuse of copyright on the Internet or any limitation on genuine private use or fair use. – Mr President, I too have companies in my constituency that are benefiting from this public procurement regime. Indeed they are benefiting from providing euro slot machines for public authorities even though Britain is not in the euro zone. There are lots of opportunities here. But I want to direct some very pertinent questions to the Commissioner and I hope he will answer those questions in his response. Commissioner, we need some clarification regarding thresholds, as Mr Harbour has indicated. I would genuinely like to know what would be the effect on the public procurement market if thresholds were to be increased, and particularly on small and medium-sized enterprises and on consumers. I would also like to know, as regards our international obligations under the WTO general procurement agreement with third countries, whether it would be the case, as has been established by Commission services, that the US and Japan would actually be favoured contractors and that our EU suppliers would lose out because we would be operating two distinctly different regimes. I should like to raise questions on the social criteria. Members have already stressed the compatibility of incorporating strong social progress criteria in award procedures while respecting the principles of competition law and of equal treatment and non-discrimination. It ought to be possible to combine economic reform and competition policy with strong and sound social justice and social progress principles. I cannot understand why, if we have a system of transparency and open competition, how we cannot prevent that from being used as a protectionist smoke screen in the publication of tenders. Why has the Commission not incorporated the full force of good practice from European case law into the body of this directive to ensure that we guarantee the highest social and economic standards in public procurement? Surely we owe that to our public authorities, to our consumers and indeed to our businesses. Why has the Commission gone down the route of a voluntary approach? I hope the Commission will accept the amendments mentioned by my colleague, Mr Hughes, to allow for reserve contracts for sheltered employment schemes. I hope it will respect Parliament's wishes for a strong line to be taken in this directive, ensuring compliance with core labour standards and permitting the exclusion of those in breach of those standards. – Mr President, there is no disagreement on the fact that we want to comply with this piece of legislation. I was surprised to see you quoted in my press as threatening to cut off European funding. I consider that to be a disproportionate action for what we are trying to achieve. You will know that in the case of the UK, at a moderation seminar, the Commission agreed a timetable to allow for review and inclusion of additional sites. In Paris a timetable was set to allow for a revised list to be presented in July with another moderation in October 2000. We are determined, after years of foot-dragging by the previous Conservative Government – Mrs Jackson's party – to meet our requirements in the UK, in good faith, to follow the proper legal and proper consultation to ensure this directive is complied with. This process is ongoing and I have no reason to believe that any plans submitted for regional funding breached the EU habitats and wild bird directives at this stage. Therefore, I fail to understand or accept the linkage that is trying to be established through this resolution. But let us be clear. Any refusal by the Commission to approve the programme – for example, in Merseyside – thus undermining £2 billion worth of investment, or any other Objective I area, including Cornwall, involving 5 million people in the UK, would actually breach – you said this Commissioner – the well-established Commission principle of proportionality, namely the obligation to pursue the least restrictive way of ensuring compliance with EU legislation – in this case the habitats and wild bird directive. We therefore need to have a balanced relationship between means and ends. In the final analysis any breach of EU legislation must actually go the European Court of Justice. I cannot accept that such a balance means the cutting off of vital lifelines of EU funds to the poorest and neediest regions. Commissioner Barnier probably said to you today, Commissioner Wallström, that all European programmes should be able to start without undue delay because it can be extremely difficult to make up for lost time later on. I therefore ask the Commissioner to take collective responsibility for ensuring that Structural Fund programmes are implemented in time. That is your responsibility as a member of the college. – Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Harbour, for the cooperative and pragmatic way in which he has worked on the universal services directive. In particular, his efforts to achieve a consensus have led to the Socialist Group's amendments – both to strengthen the 'must carry' provisions and to give stronger rights of access to disabled users – being carried in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. The fast pace of technological change in the telecoms sector means that legislation must keep up with the pace of developments. But it must reflect growing expectations of users and consumers for a minimum set of services at an affordable price, guaranteeing access for all. The telecoms revolution has created a rise in consumer expectations. It is our job to respond and ensure that our legislative framework in the EU can deliver competition and consumer benefits. Consumers, for example, have not benefited from the existence of multiple competitors in the mobile phone market. Tariffs have not fallen in line with lower costs of running networks, now prompting in the UK an Oftel inquiry and a European Commission investigation. This directive must ensure genuine universal access and extend to all users, especially those with special social needs, those on low incomes and those with disabilities. The disabled will be excluded from the opportunities if there are not sufficient guarantees of access across Europe to public payphones, directory services and electronic programme options. In my country alone, two million blind and partially-sighted people could benefit from this directive if the Council and the Commission accept our amendments. Finally, on 'must carry' provisions, we need to find a means to allow services and channels in the public interest to be carried on cable and satellite platforms. If we do not, then I fear the future of satellite television might be dominated by the TV culture of quiz shows featuring stripping housewives, squeezing out educational and public interest programmes. Let us be clear: Amendment No 26 does not promote a free ride for public broadcasters on conditional access services nor indeed on imposing or mandating this. The fact is that market conditions do not always provide 'must carry'. It is appropriate to allow Member States to intervene if and when it is appropriate to do so. I trust the Commission and the Council will see the merits of supporting this. We favour a quick deal but it is conditional on the Council and the Commission accepting our amendments, which are a genuine and committed attempt to ensure that the brave new world of electronic communications is genuinely universal. – Mr President, the Commissioner will also know there was unanimous consensus in Council on the common position. I hope you are going to take as robust a position on Mr Zimmerling's amendments as you did on the Lehne report. It is also an issue about the vitality and competitiveness of the European art market. If it was centred on Berlin I am sure that Mr Zimmerling would argue quite differently on transposition times and thresholds. Without an international  the fact is that the European art market will go offshore. There is evidence to prove that. I too, like Mrs Echerer, must listen to artists. They are divided. There is . They are divided. It is arrogant of Mr Zimmerling to dismiss the views of people for whom we claim to legislate in this Parliament. We legislate in their interests. We should listen to their views as well. We can also see that the  does not actually advantage many artists. In Germany, for example, in 1998, of 7 000 artists who transferred their rights, only 274 actually got any money from it and 40% of the  was taken up in costs in levying the sum. So there are some problems with how it currently operates. I want to use this opportunity to register my dismay that the Commission has failed to provide any analysis or evaluation of the economic impact of . It is far too important a piece of legislation for it not to have done this work. I still fail to understand how the Commission reached the arbitrary threshold of EUR 1 000 with no scientific evidence to back that up. Therefore I must plead for a long transition period to open serious negotiations on an international , without which we will lose the European art market, wherever it is located, whether it be Paris, Berlin or London. I do not believe artists will gain from that either. – Mr President, we all know that the development of the Internet as a shopping channel can bring great benefits: new opportunities for small businesses, for Internet start-ups and opening up the single market to our consumers right across 15 Member States. It can lead to lower prices for them. It can lead to a range of choice and we all support that, but we also know from surveys by national consumer councils, particularly in my Member State, that consumers do not yet have sufficient trust and confidence in the new technology to shop on-line. I am pleased to see that businesses recognise that consumer confidence is critical to the growth of this small-business e-commerce network. They recognise it is a precondition for persuading the consumer to shop on-line and therefore our key objective has to be to encourage that trust and confidence which in turn will benefit business by broadening their customer and consumer market base. It is regrettable that in committee this debate has declined in some ways to business versus industry. Both business and industry can gain from a common sense approach to this. We can only recognise the full potential of business-to-consumer e-commerce if sufficient trust and confidence is there. The way to persuade those consumers to take the plunge is to ensure that their rights are intact and this has to include, in my group’s view, the right to take action in their own national court. There is a view that consumers are only engaging in buying CDs, books, low-value items, but of course we know that e-commerce is taking off in such way that soon they will be buying financial services, they will be buying cars. In my constituency they want to buy cheaper cars from France and the Netherlands. These are serious amounts of money and, as we encourage more consumers to go on-line, we really must give them the right to sue in their own courts so that we do not expect them – particularly poorer consumers – to go to courts abroad. In reality we know that regulating the e-commerce world in the interests of both business and consumers requires a more innovative approach. It needs a fundamental legal framework with innovative, non-legislative solutions and that is why I support Mrs Wallis’ proposals: looking at the potential of ADR systems, looking at trustmarks, supporting small businesses in voluntary codes of good conduct, and finding mutually satisfactory ways to solve disputes. Internet service providers have a role to play in this. America Online, for example, runs its own merchant business programme where it guarantees to support the consumer in getting legal redress from any of the businesses that use them as a provider. The reality is that none of these systems, of course, are in place in Europe, nor are they even really developed. Even in the US, where only 8% of websites have trustmarks, there are still considerable problems gaining legal redress. ADRs, therefore, cannot be a replacement for legal remedy. The consumer cannot be bound to lose his right to go to court by contracts, as inserted in the report that is before us from the Legal Affairs Committee. More work needs to be done in the area. We need to create trust but, until these new systems are in place, there is no reason why consumers should not enjoy the same rights on-line as they do offline. I cannot deprive my constituents of their right to sue in their own courts. They are entitled to their own system of justice and we have to continue to support that. We do not support jurisdiction clauses because my group also believes that these are in contravention of the unfair contract term legislation, by causing significant imbalance in the parties’ rights and obligations under contract to the detriment of the consumer. This we believe would create more legal uncertainty, more court cases, more money perhaps for lawyers, but that cannot be in the interests of business or consumers. I am very pleased that in my country the CBI has backed Mrs Wallis’ approach. It is a sensible position in helping us to work with business and consumers that we can ensure that court action is only the last resort and we can find better ways to resolve disputes. It is a matter of some regret to me that members of the Legal Affairs Committee seem to have forgotten that it is our committee which bears the responsibility for the legal protection of the consumer. It cannot, therefore, be right that we respond to the challenges of the new world of e-commerce by seeking to limit or constrain those rights. This will send a bad signal to consumers. It will not support e-business development and it will mean that we will not develop the e-commerce business-to-consumer sector. I appeal, therefore, for some common sense in this debate. I know that no legislation is perfect. We are all struggling in the e-commerce world to get legislation that is right, to get the right balance between self-regulation and a regulatory framework which gives minimum guarantees. That is why I believe also that this two-year review clause is sensible. It will allow us to look at legislation, how it is impacting on SMEs and now it is impacting on consumers. The idea of setting up a case book and collecting evidence is an excellent idea. We now have to work to find practical and effective ways to resolve disputes. This cannot be at the expense of consumers. – Mr President, the Labour delegation of the European Parliament voted against Mr Lehne's amendments to the common position. As I said in the debate last night, they would be very damaging for EU company competitiveness. They introduce rigid structures and try to bring company law in by the back door, which will not achieve a single market in capital and will undermine investor confidence of our shareholders. Following ten years of negotiation, I regret that this Parliament has chosen by a narrow qualified majority vote to allow company boards the right to defensive measures to frustrate takeovers without getting approval from shareholders. However, I welcome the fact that the Commission cannot go along with the rapporteur's views on this and I hope that common sense will prevail in conciliation. I am pleased that we rejected the rapporteur's very messy approach on jurisdiction: this would have led to very much litigation and court cases and would have served nobody's interests, not least the interests of EU companies. With the passage of Amendment No 20, the EPLP has made it clear that while employee consultation is the objective of a framework directive on employment, we also believe that a spirit of cooperation is needed to consult workforces and their representatives when we have discussions on takeovers and mergers. – Mr President, on a point of order, I wish to remind Members of the House of Rule 9(2), referring to Annex I, Article 1: "Before speaking in Parliament or in one of its bodies, any Member who has a direct financial interest in the subject under debate shall disclose this interest to the meeting orally." In view of the fact that Mr Lehne proposes to strengthen the role of company directors, it is quite obvious that Members may want to declare that before speaking. It does not stop them from speaking; it may not affect our rapporteur; but certainly it applies to some members of his group who hold senior positions in the Bertelsmann media group. – Madam President, the EPLP delegation voted in favour of the mergers and takeover conciliation text. While we realise that the prime objective of this directive was to protect minority shareholders’ and investors’ interests against unscrupulous directors and inefficient company boards in a takeover or merger, in conciliation we achieved the incorporation of amendments tabled by the Socialist Group, which meant that this directive would have recognised the legitimate interests of employees in a takeover bid. Some believe that this directive did not go far enough in this direction and that there is no real genuine consultation of the workforce. Let us be clear: this was a choice between no information and providing information to the workforce in the process of a takeover or merger. As a senior British trade union general secretary said, it is a significant step forward and offers a chance to build a substantial foundation. It would be wrong to oppose the directive because it does not give sufficient rights of information and consultation. This directive would have had no effect on the  of employment rights in the EU, or in the national Member States. It was a minimum requirement. I think you agree, Madam President, that Parliament has not covered itself in glory with its tied result today. We will have no directive on mergers and takeovers and we will have no information and consultation with rights for workers, even though mergers and takeovers will continue to happen across the European Union. – My Group voted in favour of the Jackson resolution on Structural Funds in the environment because we believe in the principle of ensuring effective implementation of environmental law – in this case, the wild birds and habitats directive. However, we are surprised that Members of this House voted for the original proposal in paragraph 7 to cut off funds to some of our poorest regions in the EU. Indeed, the Commissioner, in a response to the debate, said she would not be stopping approval of key funding programmes. Members of the Environment Committee clearly cannot be aware of the undue delays that any non-approval of Structural Funds programmes would create, nor indeed of the new budgetary procedure that could involve not only delays but the loss of millions in funds in the case of the UK to Merseyside, South Yorkshire, the Highlands and Islands, Northern Ireland, Cornwall and the Isle of Wight. These are vital life-line funds for jobs and growth. I therefore welcome the fact that this House voted by a majority against cutting off resources. The Commissioner would, in any case, have had no legal competence to stop approval and therefore I am glad that, at the end of the day, common sense has prevailed in our vote. . – Madam President, it is in itself an achievement that we are having this debate on the new URBAN Community initiative and it is an achievement that I am here tonight because Air France cancelled my flight at 2.10 p.m. – but I am here! Just a year ago when the Commission produced its proposals around Agenda 2000 it axed the URBAN initiative. Yet we as politicians knew that there was a groundswell of support for continuing this initiative into the year 2000. Parliament, therefore, can take credit for a successful lobbying campaign to put URBAN back on the agenda and get the Commission and Council to make a U-turn. Urban policy has always been at the forefront of EU policy. In my Member State, for example, we are developing a strategic approach in a White Paper and an urban government taskforce is looking at the problems of urban communities. With eight out of ten people in Europe living in urban areas, it is right that we help our most deprived communities to tackle the all too familiar problems of deprivation, social exclusion, joblessness, crime, drug dependency and all the problems that are associated with that. For example, in my own region, in Manchester, the URBAN Community initiative has been a tremendous success. URBAN funds have been invested in one of the most deprived neighbourhoods in the UK, in Moss Side. The Millennium Youth Park project is helping to get young people re-engaged in regenerating their own community and in addition to support for small businesses and social policy we are beginning to see a turnaround of a very deprived urban community. The work of this URBAN agenda was then taken out to the wider community with an active communication and publicity campaign in local supermarkets and famous British pubs. This is the kind of good practice we would like to see extended across the EU in terms of communication and publicity. As regards the specific guidelines governing the initiative, they are broadly defined to give scope for local and regional diversity. We agree that they ought to be indicative in nature, allowing the maximum flexibility to ensure that we target specific programmes. In committee we are not in favour of reducing the number to 50. We are in favour of reduction overall but we believe that the arbitrary number of 50 is not the key factor. Instead, we should go for good-quality projects that can act as a catalyst to effect change and renewal, to attract inward investment in terms of loans and venture capital and to achieve a multiplier effect. The Member States should therefore be able to propose a reasonable number of areas within the financial ceiling of their allocations. In the designation of local URBAN programmes we need to make good use of local indicators and statistics on deprivation and health to enable us to more effectively target the most affected areas. In the UK the local index of deprivation is a very good example of a widely used standard and statistic to help determine not only EU but national and regional assistance programmes. This needs to be acknowledged as a tool and resource in addition to the EU criteria. I would ask you to take on board local indicators to help us do that. Our most deprived urban neighbourhoods face a plethora of problems: high unemployment and often very low-paid precarious employment, poverty and social exclusion. Often these problems are compounded by poor health and housing stock and a culture of drug dependency. We therefore have unstable communities which are infiltrated with crime, drug-dealing and gangs. This is all too familiar in many of our urban areas. All these complex problems undermine the quality of life for our urban residents, yet we have the potential in these areas to create growth and prosperity. That is why again, in my report, I have asked that action under the URBAN Programme should not merely provide a single solution to a single problem: these areas do not have single, “mono” problems. Instead, communities in urban areas should be encouraged to present integrated action plans to tackle their specific urban problems, using EU resources as a value added to local actions. I would like to see those actions extended to cover health and anti-discrimination, as provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty. The Community initiative means community involvement. Some of the most active and committed proponents and agents of change in our urban areas are local residents. We need to encourage them to participate in designing and delivering projects for these programmes. The time-scale therefore proposed by the Commission is very ambitious. It is better to have quality projects with the active participation of community groups than to have projects delivered on time but without local participation. The Commission must of course provide full disclosure and transparency concerning the selection criteria used for the new urban initiatives but it must also disclose the consultancy networks which are being used to deliver the exchange of good practice. This is important in the interests of transparency and the overall effectiveness of networks. Finally, I should like to emphasise that in order to address the problems facing the post-industrial city we require local participation. We need to deploy the energies of the unemployed, the underused skills of youth and the experience of age to tackle these problems. We shall thereby be able to replace poverty, dependency and alienation with equity, initiative and participation. This will help us to restore the credibility of the EU and the confidence of citizens that Europe can deliver local action to solve local problems. Mr President, Amendment No 206 is not rendered redundant by the adoption of the previous amendment. Therefore, we need to vote on Amendment No 206. Mr President, as this matter was agreed just prior to the vote I want to be quite clear about the separate vote, because the complete voting list was only available this morning. We would like to check that there is to be a separate vote on Amendments Nos 38 and 39 as a block and on Amendments Nos 80, 102, 122, 127 and 128. If that is what the rapporteur has given you, then I am happy to go along with that division. .The EPLP welcomes the conclusions of the Musotto report on Cohesion. However we believe it is premature in the debate to take a fixed position on the future options for designating European Assisted Areas. There will continue to be areas of need in the UK post-2006 and we would like the Commission to assess the role that both a safety net mechanism and transitional funding could play in assisting poorer regions of the UK post-2006. It is disappointing that the British Conservatives failed, among others, to support this amendment. In addition their failure to support a stronger role for local and regional governments in the management of European funding is a blow to democracy and partnership. – Madam President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for the open manner in which he chose to present his report in plenary. It is the beginning of a debate – an honest debate – that we want to be involved in as parliamentarians. The Commissioner and Mr Hatzidakis said that regional disparities will become twice as great. The challenge to achieve cohesion will be greater: we have an unprecedented expansion of the Union and we still have poor regions. There is a multi-million euro question which is, to use the words of a former French Commission President: “Have we got the means to match our ambitions?” That is not to say that the means have to be financial, but we must also look at other policies. It is clear that there will be a cap on budgetary contributions. Therefore I ask you, Commissioner Barnier and your colleagues, to look at the opportunities offered by other policies, in particular the real and tangible benefits of involving the private sector in regenerating our regions. Can you be sure, Commissioner, that an enlightened view will be taken, in particular by Mr Monti, the Commissioner responsible for competition, to ensure that we have private sector innovative approaches to reducing regional disparities across the Union? – Mr President, I want to add my voice to those Members calling for the swift passage of this legislation through Parliament. This is a Parliament with a proud record. Since the 1980s we have led on action and on initiatives to combat racism, xenophobia and discrimination. We now have, in the Buitenweg report, a unique opportunity to see those efforts incorporated into a package of legislation and an action plan. I want to thank the rapporteur for incorporating the amendment by the Committee on Legal Affairs to extend the proposal to cover institutional racism. We, too, believe that we have to see a ban on incitement to racism. Groups and anti-racist organisations in my region, in the North-West of England, are eagerly awaiting this legislation. For some of them, victims of racism, action cannot come quick enough and PPE pleading on respecting parliamentary procedure, I am afraid, will fall on deaf ears in my region’s organisations. Racism is on the rise again. We all have our local examples. For example, in Liverpool an Asian scriptwriter was attacked, his car forced off the road and local thugs then tried to impale him on a fence spike. So vicious was this attack that Merseyside police called for an urgent press conference. The Jewish community in North Manchester are persistently the subject of victimisations and racism, their property defaced and they are subjected to racial threats and abuse. This has to stop. This is why it is vital that Europe gives a strong public statement on racism and discrimination backed up by legislative action to ban this and to extend the scope of legal redress by shifting the burden of proof from the victim to the racist and allied groups and organisations to bring race discrimination cases to courts across the EU. In voting through this report and its recommendations, this Parliament can give a strong signal that it is prepared to be tough on racism and tough on the causes and perpetrators of racism. Those parties which seek to legitimise and promote racism and discrimination through the ballot box, and we have examples in many countries, should take note of this directive and incorporate the recommendations and its legal force in their own constitutions. Mr President, we all know that counterfeiting and product piracy has reached epidemic proportions. The lack of harmonised enforcement rules means that counterfeiting is a low-risk business where for a low investment counterfeiting pirates are guaranteed enormous profits. The UK's Anti-Counterfeiting Group has estimated that as many as 4 000 people lose their jobs as a result of this trade and that the GBP 1.75 billion lost in VAT alone could build four new hospitals a year. Clothing and footwear companies suffer the greatest losses and consumers are the victims. Their health and safety is put at risk with fake medicines, foodstuffs, toys coated in toxic lead, flammable children's clothing and fake alcohol containing high levels of methanol which has led not only to people being hospitalised but also, in one case in Scotland, to the death of a woman. In my own region, north-west England, trading standards intellectual property groups' seizures of counterfeited pirate goods is on the increase. Here is one example: this is a Manchester United football shirt, coveted by many youngsters. It is a fake, but was sold to consumers on the high street at full price. Far from a bargain. This is a packet of Viagra, now available over the Internet. 50 000 such packets were seized at a house in Oldham. They are imported from Thailand and distributed by a vast network of counterfeiters across the region. There is also a more sinister side to this counterfeiting and piracy. The Organised Crime Task Force in Northern Ireland has reported that nearly half of all organised crime groups are involved in IP crime. Two thirds of these groups have links to paramilitary organisations, so the draft law we are voting on today should be seen in context. It is not as ambitious, radical or draconian as many opponents would like to portray. Nor is it a panacea for rights holders. It is a first modest and cautious step in an EU-wide commitment to fight counterfeiting and piracy. I would like to congratulate the Irish presidency for having agreed a text which is balanced and proportionate and whose actions are focused on tackling genuine and serious acts of infringement.  consumers engaged in acts on a commercial scale have nothing to fear from this new EU law, as consumers acting in good faith are excluded from its scope. A further safeguard is that commercial scale is defined as acts resulting in commercial and financial gain. Moreover, action can only follow, as a result of a justified and proportionate request by the claimant, on the authority of a competent judge or court and only for intentional infringements on a commercial scale. Contrary to the hysteria and misrepresentation spread by certain sections of the EU press, there is no question of dawn raids on teenagers in their homes. The law has no criminal provisions. It is restricted to civil and administrative remedies. There are no double damages. The directive reinforces judicial discretion and ensures that remedies are fair, equitable, proportionate and justified. This is an enforcement directive and one that cannot write IP law. Nor can it rewrite it or change e-Commerce law, in particular the responsibility of ISPs as defined in Articles 12 to 15 of the e-Commerce directive. It cannot undermine the right to private copying as provided for in the Copyright directive, and in fact reinforces that right and protects the right of privacy. The actions taken must guarantee compliance with data protection laws. Article 23 provides for an assessment of the impact of the directive and Parliament will take that seriously. The intention is to show that it is applied in a balanced and proportionate way and it should be stressed that the directive must not be used to abuse the right of legitimate competitors to enter the market place, in particular that for generic medicines. Finally, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her willingness to compromise, and the Irish presidency for its determination in forcing all parties to come to agreement. We must today take the bold step of voting this law onto the statute book. We must send a signal to counterfeiters and pirates that we are serious about closing the enforcement loopholes that they exploit. We must give judges and courts in the enlarged EU the option of a range of enforcement tools. It is time for the EU to get tough on counterfeiting and piracy. It is time we stopped allowing counterfeiters a free ride at the expense of consumers, legitimate businesses, EU jobs and the EU's competitiveness. – Commissioner, you give a very full response. I would have liked such a response to the written question which I sent to you. Your answer simply referred me to the Commission's opinion on the IGC. It is not acceptable for a Member of Parliament to take time to write a question and then to get a response from your services which is two lines long. I can read documents. I wanted your personal view on Mrs Zabell's question about legal issues. We have a tradition with the Treaty of Amsterdam of using protocols to protect specific characteristics. We could perhaps look at the potential of a protocol to protect the specific characteristic of sport in Europe. There are many areas now where we have legal challenges, as you rightly know, in the sport domain, particularly in the commercial sector. We could have a protocol that would allow us to give a political direction to authorities to take proper account of the specific nature and structure of sport in Europe. Would you be prepared to back such a protocol and do you see a way for us to try and protect the specific nature of sport without, as Mrs Zabell asked, having a particular legal competence? – Mr President, it is incumbent upon me to remind my colleague, Mr Evans, of why Wales actually achieved Objective 1 status. It was because of the discredited policies of his own Conservative Party. Let me also remind him that when his party leader, Mr Hague, was Secretary of State for Wales, he broke every rule in the book on additionality which led to a stern letter from Commissioner Wulf-Mathies regarding regulatory requirements. I can tell you that the British Government is aware of its regulatory requirements on Objective 1 additionality. I suggest Mr Evans goes back and reads the regulation. My Group has made extensive amendments to both reports up for debate today. I want to focus our minds on the essential role of the guidelines. The objective is to provide a framework and tool to support and enhance economic regeneration, to get the most effective use of resources in the widest partnership and to put these regions back on the road to recovery and sustainable development so that eventually they come off the regional life-support machine. It is important to identify the skills and potential of our regions in the hi-tech sector. It is particularly important in the light of reports in the media that Europe is rapidly losing ground to the US in the hi-tech growth industries of the future. The operation of the previous round of programmes is also very instructive in telling us what guidelines should not be about. They should not be about creating additional layers of bureaucracy and red tape. They should not be about shifting priorities and policies halfway through project development, resulting in inevitable delays and underspends, particularly in the light of the new budgetary requirement. The implementation and operation of the guidelines cannot be left to the personal interpretation of one or other desk officer, either in the Commission or in the civil service. There must be an internal coherence in the Commission directorate, while respecting the specific local and regional aspects of Commission programmes. The conclusion is that we must make the case for guidelines to be broad, indicative and flexible to assist our programme managers and fund-users and to get the maximum potential out of our new fields of regeneration. If we can inject a spirit of entrepreneurial activity into our poor and structurally weak regions we will eventually get them back onto the road of attracting substantial investor confidence, which will be the key to future success. This is how we are going to judge the success of these guidelines: whether EU regional policy with a good, solid, enabling guideline, can open up new opportunities and allow our poor and structurally weak regions to play their full part in contributing to the growth and prosperity of the EU. Mr President, this Parliament gave its views clearly during the reading on the Sixth Framework Programmes. Those views were reinforced by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy last week: we are in favour of the development of therapies for dreadful diseases by the use of embryonic stem cells under very strict conditions, with no creation of embryos for research, with the use of supernumerary embryos, with the consent of parents and without payment. I regret the intolerant anti-European rejection of subsidiarity by some colleagues this afternoon. We believe that the exploration of other forms of stem cell, and indeed comparisons, are essential. Now to the matter of dates. I regret that the Commission chose to introduce a date, because it has encouraged some Members of this Parliament to put forward even more absurd dates. This has been done in a rather sly, hypocritical and misleading way in that not simply different dates, but also different procedures – with stem cell lines and not with embryos – have been proposed. The hypocrisy of those amendments should be exposed so that Members are absolutely clear on what they are voting. I have a direct question for the Commissioner. Is it true that the dates suggested by Mr Nisticò and others would drastically reduce the availability of stem cell lines to make the European Union totally dependent on the United States, Israel and other countries for lines under patent? Would this damage European Union science and, most importantly of all, would it damage the prospects of helping people who are suffering from terrible diseases? –Specialist committees are very dependent upon the rapporteur to do their business for them. I am happy to say that Mr Bourlanges this year has been a reliable colleague and negotiated well on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. He has pursued his own ideas and those of the Committee on Budgets at the same time, in particular his wish for administrative expenditure to be clearly identified so that monitoring can be carried out. We are happy to support him in that. We are pleased with the compromise on the fifth framework programme which allows us to monitor effectively but does not mean that managing the programmes becomes impossible for the Commission. As far as energy is concerned, we are disappointed with the relatively small sums allocated for renewable energy and energy efficiency. We shall be back with suggestions next year. On the whole we are satisfied. We will monitor very carefully the money that we shall be voting for on Thursday. – Commissioner, since your appointment you have adopted a very good habit of consulting and informing the European Parliament, for which we are grateful. We are also grateful for your support for the changes to the Treaty necessary to give us the powers we need in the trade area. Just as you are responsive to us, we have to be responsive to those who elect us. You know as well as we do that there are genuine and widespread worries about GATS. You have mentioned some of them: transparency, the feeling that a lot of unsavoury things are being done secretly; threats to EU jobs, which have prompted, I suppose, the dock workers' demonstration we saw today; threats to public services, with particularly acute dangers to developing countries; threats to the ability of Member States to regulate, and particular fears in the culture area, on which others will speak. At the same time, the European public is well aware – since 60% of them or more work in service industries – that there are possibilities for EU firms in widespread trade in services. So they face the dual interest which you have delineated. Developing countries have not rejected GATS completely. However, the fears about public services, regulation and extension and the fact that the developing countries do not have the capacity for the administration that an opening-up of service markets will require all mean that the implications of opening up trade in services need to be very fully assessed. I would put more emphasis on that than on anything else in our resolution. Before we go any further we want to know - not in a perfunctory exercise but in a detailed and comprehensive assessment - what this means. .  Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr Mulder for the very collegiate and cooperative way in which he has worked with other committees, and Mrs Gill for the same reason. The budget lines dealt with by my committee are the most complex of any committee. We cover something like 120 budget lines with reference to ten different directorates-general. Because of that complexity, plus the changes in nomenclature, the activity-based budgeting and enlargement, it has been a difficult task to give an overall view. I would like to thank the Commission and those staff in its directorates-general who have been patient in their explanations and have explained their rationale for preparing the preliminary draft budget. I cannot offer the same praise to the Council of Ministers, because in our committee we have seen a whole succession of very large cuts with no rationale whatsoever provided as to why they should have taken place. I find it impossible to work on that basis. You cannot have a dialogue when one side does not explain its reasoning for what it is doing. There may be some sense behind the suggestions, but it is not at all clear to us. Let me take as one example the preparatory action for security research, of enormous interest to the citizens of Europe. Why has that been cut? I am delighted that Mr Mulder is prepared to support us in reinstating the money which was suggested for this action, which many of us on our committee think is important. We want an explanation about Chernobyl. We lay great emphasis on SMEs, as you will see, and I look forward to some sort of rational discussion with the Council about its motivation for making cuts which appear to contradict every policy of the European Union. –Mr President, if the speeches are becoming repetitive, that is a very good thing. It shows the widespread support. We want a consolidated European space policy. We do not want continuous, ad hoc structures. We need a permanent solution. This must be made clear at the ESA ministerial meeting. The reasons are obvious. There is considerable European added value in working together. There is an existing which must be built upon. We must have independence within this part of the world in this very important sector. It allows us to have links with third countries such as the United States - why not - and also Russia and countries further afield such as South Africa and some of the applicant countries. It allows us to retain our scientists and our technologists. Otherwise we will lose them. It allows us to recruit the new generation of scientists and technologists. We cannot do that unless there are projects that capture the imagination of our talented young people. It allows us, of course, to have spin-offs in a variety of sectors which have already been mentioned and which will enhance the SME sector. It allows us to be much more efficient in carrying out our EU objectives and policies on climate change, agriculture, security and development in the developing countries. We are playing uphill on a very sloping playing field against the United States. They use cross-subsidy to the tune of 31.8 billion of public money - and rising fast - compared to our EUR 6 billion - and falling. They use public procurement, without blushing, to encourage their space sector. They use R[amp]D. They use a monopoly on certain electronic equipment to keep us from exploiting the high-tech space sector. We have already heard about launchers and satellites. Clearly the problems of the telecoms sector have been difficult for satellites in the European Union. But there is no reason, with an up-turn, that we should not, with public procurement and public funds, be launching far more satellites in the future for public, citizen benefit. As far as Galileo is concerned, Mr President, you know more than anyone else in this House what is needed. I am delighted that Mr Prodi is prepared to be proactive. He will have the support of many people in this Chamber. Finally, let us not forget astronomy and space exploration. I would like to hear a bit more about the European southern laboratory. Let us have space policy in the Convention. It is an ideal area for the European Union. – Mr President, congratulations to Mr Busquin and Mr Gérard Caudron. Gérard has worked quickly but he has not been sloppy or careless. We have been able to put across important points despite working quickly. This is innovation. This is a new use of Article 169 which will lead to considerable leverage, with EUR 200 million from the EU plus EUR 200 million from Member States and we hope for at least that much from industry. In this area the market has failed, as it so often does, and there has been, until now, a certain lack of public leadership, with a particular bottleneck in the clinical trials aspect of finding new products. We have heard that it is the biggest killer, that 5 million people die a year, 95% of them in poor countries. Yesterday, we grieved publicly for the victims of the irresponsible and immoral war in Iraq by wearing black armbands. We should be wearing them every day for the victims of these killer diseases. There is, of course, a multi-pronged attack. This point has been made by other speakers. Other actions are needed but this particular action is research. It is for clinical trials which will lead to the development of new products, in particular a new vaccine for tuberculosis, much better diagnostic tools, and combined medicines for HIV/AIDS which are easier to take and have fewer side effects. That is what we want at the end. That will be the outcome of these clinical trials. We have made the point that they must be targeted. Despite the complexity of the problem let us keep in mind the whole time what we want at the end. We must strengthen the clinical research capacities in developing countries. One of the tragedies of our planet is the waste of human intelligence and creativity in countries which have been politically discriminatory or else riven by poverty. We must encourage that intelligence and creativity by having infrastructure, training and everything else. Everything must be anchored in the developing countries with an understanding that, should we find these things, should we find a better vaccine for tuberculosis, better drugs for HIV/AIDS and better diagnostic tests, they will be available to those that need them. It would be the greatest obscenity to do this work, discover the products and then find that those who need them cannot use them. I am very pleased that has been emphasised and I thank Gérard Caudron very much for his work as well as, of course, Commissioner Busquin. – Mr President, I am glad that Commissioner Prodi pointed out the disparity between the financial costs of this war and those available to meet the needs of humanity. There is something surrealistic – and in fact disgusting – about squandering money on a fully-contrived war and then handing out lucrative contracts to favourite local firms to repair the damage caused by that very war.  I will, however, move on now to the economic part of the Spring Summit, focusing upon two aspects: progress in innovation and enterprise, and environmental protection. Every Spring Summit seems to me like a non-stop re-run of the Delors White Paper. That is also somewhat surrealistic. As far as research and development is concerned, let me be positive. I am glad that Commissioner Prodi is going to look at the EIB because, frankly, that institution is inefficient and ineffective in aiding those firms which could be innovative and competitive if they just had that helping hand. Good for him. As far as environmental protection is concerned, let me highlight intelligent energy, for which I am the rapporteur in this Parliament. This is a programme that was presented many months late by the Commission – it should have started in January this year. That is not efficient, and it is most certainly not competitive and dynamic  Lisbon Declaration. This programme, I am sad to say, has been cut by the Council. As rapporteur, I am currently weighing up whether to accept a reduced programme which will actually happen or whether to argue for what should happen. Let us be clear that we are not matching our words with deeds. – May I congratulate Mrs Ahern on so enthusiastically taking up the work which Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz began. Energy efficiency is one of the few obvious contributions towards the attainment of the targets set for the EU in Kyoto. By saving energy, we produce fewer CO2 emissions and other pollutants. We also make our businesses more competitive. We can create thousands of much needed jobs and we can allow gas and electricity suppliers to make their money in a more sensible way by selling the services which energy gives us – warm homes, cool fridges and machines which work – rather than selling increasingly large amounts of gas and electricity. The main area in which work is needed is actually that of domestic householders. They use more energy than industry and they use it in a profligate way. That is why many of the measures in SAVE II are aimed at households – better design of houses, more economical household appliances and effective education programmes. Unlike Mr van Velzen, I support very strongly the rapporteur’s amendment raising the percentage of savings to 1.5% above what would happen anyway. We only have to look at the progress in some Member States, including the Netherlands, to see that this is a perfectly attainable percentage. I am convinced that the use of regional and local networks like Federene, Energie Cities and Islenet is one of the most effective ways in which to bring about change, and I hope they will be specifically encouraged in SAVE II as they were in SAVE I. It is important, of course, that we monitor SAVE II and that its achievements are quantified. Our committee will shortly be putting in place a mechanism to ensure that we monitor all spending programmes very closely. SAVE II could be an example of how funding can be used in other EU programmes such as structural funds and funding for third countries. The budget again is inadequate. This programme is not enough on its own either. I hope, Commissioner, that you will persevere with the philosophy behind the rational planning directive. I am pleased that you have done so so far, and we look forward to your next communications on energy efficiency. It is very good to start the work of this new Parliament with programmes which can make a difference, both to the environment and, of course, to the competitiveness needs of our Member States. Like ALTENER, SAVE II is one of those programmes. – I will explain as carefully as I can. The original text says, and this is the original text as voted in committee: "Whereas free, fair and socially-balanced world trade must be further developed and consolidated" etc. Amendment No 11 says in its first part: "Whereas ()". We are ready to vote on that. I have said that we will vote against it. There is then a further amendment to Amendment No 11, which is in two parts. But I think we can vote the whole of Amendment No 11 now, which deletes the four words "free, fair and socially-balanced". No-one has agreed to an oral amendment of any sort. – Mr President, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur who used her experience in the fifth framework programme and her professional experience as a scientist to the great benefit of all of us, particularly following her accident. I should also like to thank Mr Busquin, an excellent Commissioner, who has been very skilful along with his staff in ensuring that we could get a result early in the process. Of course we all wish to thank Mr Marimón for his patience and good humour. I also thank the scientific community, which was not slow in giving us advice and in pointing out that its needs were for simplicity, faster administration and financial care. These new instruments are exciting, but we have to be sure that many people are not prevented from taking part in the programmes because of their lack of familiarity. Liability looked as though it would be a big problem but, fortunately, it was overcome. I would point out the importance to Parliament of Amendment No 29 and its counterpart in the Euratom programme, Amendment No 38, which add criteria which can and should be taken into account, including activities to increase the role of women in research and to look at synergies with education. Ease of access means that dissemination should be fairly easy, but Parliament considers dissemination to be an important stage in this process. You can be sure that we shall be following up very carefully the sixth framework programme, visiting projects, speaking to scientists and asking for evaluations. With the adoption tomorrow of Mrs Quisthoudt-Rowohl's report, the final piece of the puzzle will be in place. Thanks to Mr Caudron and the rapporteurs on the specific programmes, we have worked efficiently and we now have plenty of time for our scientists to prepare, knowing our aim is to make the sixth framework programme efficient, well managed, easy to take part in and above reproach from the financial point of view. Thank you again to all concerned. .  Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent and timely report. As he said, we now live in a world that is totally interdependent, and the problems of one country are problems for all of us, problems such as poverty, hunger, disease, ecological disasters and crime. It is our joint responsibility to resolve these problems and to work towards a consistent and coherent strategy. Development aid can play a pivotal role in working towards solutions, but only if it is free of trade commitments. The proposals we have in front of us are a positive step towards achieving greater effectiveness of development aid. Untying aid is a direct way of increasing that effectiveness, but we need to acknowledge and recognise, as the Commissioner has made clear, that among certain Member States tying aid is still common practice. We must therefore take immediate action to address the inadequacy of our current practices. Commissioner, may I say 'more power to your elbow!' when you see the recalcitrant Member State in court, because we cannot have one Member State playing a different game from the others. We have, as you say, a single market. I support the need for reform. It will lead to increasing transparency and accountability. It is a complex process, and we welcome the intention of the Commission to bring forward the legislative proposals and the changes to existing legislation, hoping that this will not result in more bureaucracy. I should like to stress that this untying of aid from trade is not a final step, but it is one means of increasing the effectiveness of granting aid. The main purpose of granting aid is poverty reduction. So it is not an isolated concept, but part of an ongoing debate which will be pursued to some extent in Cancun next week. . – Madam President, our committee covers 120 budget lines, some very large indeed, including the research programmes Tacis, Phare and Meda. The implementation of those lines has been heavily criticised in the past. My first point is about the expenditure in 2000 of the Synergy programme, which is a programme to further international cooperation in the energy sector, and one strongly supported by the European Parliament. I am sure you can imagine, Commissioner, our astonishment and dismay when the Commission abandoned this programme in the year 2000, cancelled a call for tenders already published, causing huge inconvenience, and proceeded to spend no money at all throughout the year 2000. I cannot emphasise strongly enough that this is unacceptable behaviour and that the relevant Commissioner is well aware of our views. I am pleased to say that remedial action has been taken and we look forward to an enhanced programme in this very important sector. I turn now to the Tacis programme on nuclear safety in the former Soviet Union. This has regularly been severely – and rightly – criticised in the past. It is work which is carried out in difficult conditions, in an area where slackness and inefficiency in the implementation of budgets was traditional. We note with pleasure a marked improvement and look forward to reassurance about the safety of nuclear installations in the former Soviet Union. I would like to thank colleagues from the Committee on Budgetary Control for their cooperation in helping us to undertake the very important work of scrutiny on which our committee, could spend all its time on if we wished to. – Mr President, Commissioner, I want to speak on an issue which Parliament identified before Qatar as vital, indeed we called it 'make or break' as did the Commissioner – that is the link between environment and trade. In Qatar, we saw a breakthrough. For the first time, and against fierce and widespread opposition, we will have negotiations on some key environmental issues. Of course, much more remains to be done, but a process has been started and a taboo broken. The key to further progress must be to demonstrate, above all, to developing countries that their fears of green protectionism on our side are groundless. Qatar, frankly, did not produce the progress that we in the PSE Group wanted, and asked for beforehand on labour rights, on democracy and transparency in WTO decision-making. But it did leave the way open to progress on both. We know there was intense pressure from many countries, including developing countries, for a declaration that labour rights were a matter for the ILO alone. That pressure was resisted quite rightly and the principle of WTO cooperation with the ILO restated. The EU must now push hard to translate this principle into practice, seizing the opportunity given by the ILO's launch of a commission on the social aspects of globalisation in which the WTO and other international organisations will be participating. The ministerial meeting also agreed to negotiations on reform of the dispute settlement procedure with an open agenda covering whatever proposals WTO members choose to table. The EU must take this opportunity for openness and transparency. Commissioner, we would really like to know what your ideas are for reform and we shall not be slow in letting you know what our ideas are either. We would like to put on record today our recognition of the key role played by you, Commissioner Lamy, in the success of the meeting. You had a very difficult role and you displayed skill and tenacity. I emphasise, in particular, your insistence that you need the political support of this House in order to pursue the round in the way it was launched. We shall be marking our support in a resolution to be voted tomorrow. Many people went to Qatar hoping for a fiasco, hoping for a re-run of Seattle, hoping for something to denounce, in a mood of populism. They are disappointed in that hope and they need to be honest with themselves and to respect the views of developing countries not to indulge in paternalism as some of our colleagues have unfortunately done. The Qatar Declaration contains almost everything that developing countries wanted on the agenda. The agenda is not the outcome and we will need to be vigilant for a good result, but when developing.. – Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Belder, and indeed the European Commission, for producing the interesting 2001 report. Mr Belder has adopted a commendable analytical approach and is looking ahead, taking advantage of this particular moment in time when change looks more possible that it has hitherto. The macro-financial assistance instrument – one of several – brings about reform efforts. It is associated with the International Monetary Fund and World Bank programmes. It is for exceptional crisis situations. The EU is not an international financial institution but at crisis times our foreign policy objectives can be linked with what we do with macro-financial assistance. It is conditional on the actions of the beneficiary countries. The 2001 report is an interesting one. It looks at countries, mainly in the Balkans, but also Tajikstan, Georgia and Armenia. It looks in detail at why they have problems, what efforts are being made to solve them and where the problems are. In each country there are balance of payments difficulties, but quite encouraging growth figures in all three. I am pleased to see that analysis has taken place. I hope that the relevant parliamentary delegations will look at the analysis. Mr Belder is absolutely right, however, to say that the programme is currently inefficient, ineffective and certainly lacks a solid legal base. We have heard from Commissioner Lamy that the moment is not quite right, given the attitude of the Council of Ministers, for changing the legal base, but I sense some optimism that post-Convention, in the next IGC, it may well be possible to move to a much more appropriate legal base with QMV and codecision by Parliament. In the meantime we hope that the Commission will bring about an in-depth evaluation of the criteria that it uses for the macro-financial assistance and we must do our part. This Parliament does not take seriously enough its monitoring duty. This is an area in which it is essential that we do so. In due course I look forward to legislative proposals from the Commission. Once again I thank the rapporteur. I respect the reasons for which the British delegation has abstained on Amendments Nos 5 and 8 – junior doctors – but I have not followed this line since firstly, this is a negotiating position and secondly, my close family experience of a highly stressed and overworked NHS midwife do not allow me to impose long working hours on vital medical staff for any longer than is absolutely necessary. Mr President, I should like to congratulate both the rapporteur and the Commissioner. We are lucky to have two committed men, both of whom realise the importance of science. I was re-reading the hearings documents on the appointment of the Commission and I was very pleased to see how far the Commission has gone towards the objectives the Commissioner set out at that time. At the moment the whole credibility of European Union Member States is at stake. They have made declarations, including the one made in Lisbon, but they have not taken the action needed to put those declarations into effect. Indeed, some Member States have done precisely the opposite of what is needed. The rapporteur, like many of us, endorses the Commission's recommendations and the action plan it has put forward. We plead with Member States to implement what they have said in their declarations. We need the Finance Ministers of the European Union to look towards the seventh framework programme and the necessary funding. We need to train and retain scientists; women scientists in particular are a wasted resource. There needs to be coordination between research infrastructure and regional policy. We must find out why countries like Sweden and Finland can do that whilst other countries cannot. We have much to learn from them. I entirely support the creation of a European Research Council to give some coordination and coherence to our work, particularly in basic research. A recent meeting with astronauts made me more aware of the potential for science in Europe if we take the messages of the Lisbon declaration seriously. Almost all of us know them off by heart, but Member States have so far taken very little action on them. Congratulations again to Mr Linkohr and to Mr Busquin. – Mr President, Mr Prodi this morning you used a Russian word, , which means openness. I hope you know the other word which Mr Gorbachov made famous – , meaning restructuring, reforming - because we expect that from you too. You have to regain the confidence of the public of Europe. Everyone has said that this morning. You will only do that if you show these qualities: clarity, leadership, honesty and humility. Clarity: your political vision, as expounded this morning, does not completely satisfy our vision, and you have to expand and think very much about social Europe, the environment and other aspects. We want from you concrete objectives. That is what people understand, and we want, as part of this clarity, evidence that you can listen. That evidence is not forthcoming at the moment. We want evidence that you can listen and understand what your role is, what our role is and what the roles of of the Council of Ministers, of lobbyists and of members of the directorates-general are. Leadership: you have to show willpower, integrity and you have to show that you have very good eyes and ears and that you are a competent person. Honesty: telling the truth even when it is not comfortable to do so. Your Commissioners are being tested on the same grounds. Our committee, the Industry Committee, questioned three Commissioners and sent delegations to three others. We questioned Commissioners Liikanen, Lamy and Busquin and we went to the hearings of de Palacio, Patten and Wallström. We had the widest grasp of any committee. When we questioned Commissioners Liikanen and Lamy, we did so objectively, asking questions about their role. That was not the case with half of the Members there for Commissioner Busquin. Commissioner Busquin’s hearing revealed far more about that side of the House than it did about Commissioner Busquin. That is because he was subjected, unlike any other Commissioner-designate, to a sadistic, preplanned and concerted attack. There was no reaction to his repeated, very clear answers to the same question, and issues involving internal Belgian politics which had no bearing on Mr Busquin’s future role, given that this is a multilingual House, were repeated ad nauseam. No other Commissioner was subjected to this ordeal and it is bitterly resented by those of us who wanted to do this thing properly and to objectively listen to what Commissioners would say about their future work. That side of the House should be thoroughly ashamed of their conduct in the Busquin hearing. Unlike those opposite we listened to the answers to questions about the future roles. The six Commissioners with whom we had dealings satisfied us as to their future competence in the roles which they will undertake. – Mr President, I wish to thank Mrs Plooij-Van Gorsel for her usual very good report. I thank the Commissioner, whose timing is very good and so is his idea of launching this debate. There is indeed a growing feeling of unease at the lack of coordination in European science and research. The response has been positive, as the Commissioner knows from his contacts throughout Europe, including a recent visit to Cambridge. We are looking forward to seeing his analysis of the results of the consultation. There is a growing awareness in Europe of the dimensions of the threat from the very well-resourced, very well-targeted United States of America. Frankly, the EU is not punching its weight in research, although some Member States are very good. I would name Finland, Sweden and countries like the Republic of Ireland, which have made good progress. Apart from industrial competitiveness, of course, as Mr Desama says, we have serious environmental and social problems which need research to put them right. A target of 3% of GDP on research is realistic and essential, as is the recruitment of far more scientists, including women. Please do not underestimate the potential of the Joint Research Centre, which is itself a scientific centre for policy – a reference centre for policy – and is ideally suited to the role of networking the centres of excellence. It is itself a centre of excellence in many areas. I strongly support paragraphs 16 and 17, which call for informing the European public about scientific achievements and looking at ethical questions. We look forward to regular reports from the Commissioner about the implementation and realisation of this very exciting and essential project. – Mr President, I thank the rapporteur, Mr Caudron, and Commissioner Busquin, who have both helped us to work efficiently, as have the shadow rapporteurs. The Sixth Framework Programme is the first implementation of the European Research Area, which itself is a consequence of the Lisbon Summit and its wish for us to have a successful knowledge-based economy, because of the strong correlation between research and development and economic success – inadequate in most EU countries outside Scandinavia, I should say. We welcome the emphasis on looking for European added value, not scattering the limited funds over the whole range of research carried out. So I am glad that we are now targeting cutting-edge research, particularly in areas like nano-technology, which will be very significant in the future. There are, however, some gaps in the proposals which we wish to see filled. They include, of course, health, other than strictly post-genomic research, non-nuclear energy and land and water transport. I come to international activities, because the research framework programme must look outside the EU as well. It is essential that there is both earmarked money for international cooperative research – we suggest EUR 400 million – and mainstreaming across all the research, particularly on HIV/AIDS malaria and tuberculosis. We must involve the countries that suffer from those scourges in the research. The sums allocated in the Commissioner's proposal for science and society were inadequate. We propose to double the spending on science and society. We do not think that having one specific programme with one management will lead to transparency and adequate monitoring. I therefore hope that our suggestion will ensure that we are able to have both openness and good management of each individual part of the programmes. Although we welcome networks of excellence and integrated projects, we must maintain more familiar mechanisms at the early stages. We must at all costs avoid the creation of scientific cartels. I am pleased with the new mission of the JRC. I served on Mr Davignon's panel and it is certainly consistent with the panel's views. As far as the Euratom section of the Sixth Framework Programme is concerned, I have very grave doubts as to whether the ITER project will be implemented and my personal view – this is not the view of the rapporteur – is that extra funding is not therefore needed. It will be available in any case. The framework programmes are one of the big success stories of the European Union. Let us build on their past success. – Mr President, I congratulate Mrs Rothe. Renewable energy is by far the largest source of energy currently in use in the world. How else do we see where we are going during the day? More people use firewood than any other fuel. But tonight we are talking of extending the use of renewable energy. I am going to repeat three of our demands. Clarity is essential as we put forward our point of view to the Council. We want: binding targets, not indicative cut targets; a rational definition of renewable energy – energy from waste, which is to be incinerated anyway, is a good idea. But mixed household waste; old paint brushes, polystyrene packaging and discarded plastic toys are not renewable energy. Another directive is needed for energy from waste, as Mrs Rothe suggests. Thirdly, we want a reasonable and therefore a longer period of certainty in which renewable energy can continue to receive compensation for the external costs to society which its use avoids. Let me finish with one very startling fact. The United Kingdom could generate four times its power requirements from offshore wind alone – four times its power requirements! Colleagues, this directive makes sense. Commissioner, thank you for your efforts. I hope you will support ours. – All accidents are tragic for individual people and, of course, we extend sympathy to the workers involved in the incident at Tokaimura, their families and the 300,000 local people who were subjected to intense fear and worry for several days. Accidents occur in all industries, and we have just seen an appalling train crash in the UK this week. But accidents in nuclear installations, especially criticality accidents, are the most feared of all accidents. Rare though they are for obvious reasons, the potential consequences to very large numbers of people are extremely serious. That is why the nuclear industry has to be more careful than other industries. It will not survive as an industry unless the public believe in a strongly instilled and strictly enforced safety culture. Now that culture was breached quite clearly at Tokaimura this week. There will be an investigation. We hope and expect that the findings will be shared with us so that any lessons can be enforced everywhere where nuclear activities take place. Workers in the industry expect this, and the public most certainly does. Nuclear activity requires emergency plans, spot checks by independent inspectors and factoring-in of the possibility of error or negligence. That costs money but it has to be done. All installations in the supply chain are part of safety requirements. Any weak link is dangerous. A wide-ranging investigation and a public explanation are required by those whose concerns have been justifiably raised by this very serious incident indeed in Japan. – Madam President, I extend my thanks to Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca for the way in which he undertook his role as rapporteur and the way in which he involved those of us who were shadows on behalf of our groups. It was an exemplary way of setting about proceeding on what is a very difficult issue. Of course with hindsight this is something which should have been considered long ago. However, the European Commission and the Joint Research Centre have listened to the comments made by the European Parliament about this matter of concern. I accept that they are trying their very best to put forward a solution which enables them – who know as well as anyone else the seriousness of the situation – to tackle this problem. The methodology, however, is quite inadequate and can only be very temporary. We have this historical liability but, colleagues, this is not something that can possibly be funded from current research. This is not current research. We would be stealing money from research programmes which are badly needed and a top priority for the European Union if we financed the decommissioning from that budget That would be a completely incorrect use of research funds. These installations are the property and liability of the whole of the European Community, not uniquely of the research programmes. Conclusion 9 spells that out most clearly, and I fully support it. The traditional budgetary procedure is inadequate and inappropriate for the reasons that have been stated by colleagues. Not least, it is far too uncertain for a very important task like this. The trialogue is urgently needed. I support Amendment No 20 which says that the present situation, the present conclusion, is adequate for this year only. That means that we must have a trialogue meeting called within days after the passing of Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca's report. We must ask the chair of our committee, the Commission and the Council to get together before the summer so that a solution can be found for next year's budget. This work must be done in the safest possible conditions. We cannot have any corners cut in an area where it would actually be dangerous to do so. It must be done properly and properly financed; no cutting down on the amount of cooling time. Certainly not! We face a time-bomb in the Joint Research Centre: the imminent loss of very many skilled people who have the knowledge from their time at the Joint Research Centre. Those people are getting older and will retire. We have to have emergency measures to ensure that people with the appropriate skills are brought into the workforce at the Joint Research Centre. Of course we must look at the historical liabilities, but I urge colleagues to support Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca's report. – Mr President, I should like to add my congratulations to those already expressed to the rapporteur, to the Spanish presidency and to Commissioner Busquin who has been exemplary in his patience, understanding and respect for Parliament's opinions. Clever people all over Europe are waiting to hear what we decide this week, because next year they will be able to use their brains on our behalf. We will give them the money to do work which will help our economy and our society. There is a strong correlation between research effort and economic success, and the European Union at least is giving an example and showing that it understands that connection. We have been able to reach a very wide consensus in Parliament across political and national boundaries on the Sixth Framework Programme. We are coming up with a programme which highlights key areas for research but at the same time expresses the wishes of the citizens of Europe for scourges like cancer and other illnesses and for environmental dangers to be combated with intelligence. This is one part of the European research area. Member States must do the rest. It is their responsibility. The European Union is doing its part. Thank you to those who have enabled more money to be spent on the important area of science and society which includes a detailed examination of ethics. We in the PSE Group will not support amendments on ethics, but we appreciate the declaration which has been brought forward. At the end of a long process, may I thank once again our excellent rapporteur who has worked in a remarkable way, our shadows and everyone else involved. Clever people of Europe, the money is on its way! – Mr President, the Committee on Industry agreed to vote on this item only on condition that the Commission would come to the Chamber and give an explanation as to the procedure, and would give us certain assurances. I see that the Commissioner responsible, Mr Busquin, is in the Chamber. Commissioner Lamy gave that undertaking. We will not vote until we have had a statement from the Commission, because of the very strange procedure being adopted. Congratulations to our two rapporteurs, firstly Mrs Read, who has always been a doughty supporter of telecommunications. I am very pleased that she realises, as we all do, the added European value of telecommunications for all of the Lisbon agenda. Firstly, on the trans-European networks, when I arrived in this Parliament, the talk of the town was the Delors White Paper, one of the main planks of which was European networks. I am delighted that the Commissioner and his staff have been adaptable enough to recognise that if the proposals put forward are not working as originally designed, the best thing to do is to, for example, concentrate on fewer projects in a more focused way and to increase the Commission contribution, since the 10% clearly was not stimulating the sort of initiatives we wanted. I strongly support their flexibility. I also support, of course, the IDABC Programme as outlined by Mrs Read. I believe that one of the neglected parts of the Lisbon agenda is greater social cohesion, which the IDA Programme will contribute to greatly, as well as, of course, the knowledge-based economy. The word 'interoperability' is appearing increasingly frequently. We are a continent comprising many small countries with different traditions. If we do not ensure that our systems can be brought together and work in an interoperable way, we are doomed to be less successful than continental blocs such as the United States. Therefore I strongly support the interoperability aim of IDA and its support of community policies as outlined by Mrs Read, those that are traditional – agriculture, employment statistics – and those that are newer – civil protection, humanitarian aid and justice and home affairs. I am also interested in making our citizens feel safer and, of course, I am also interested in the internal market. Turning to Mr Clegg's report, I would again like to congratulate him. He and others on the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy have been very vociferous in saying that it is simply not enough to pass directives and to put in place legislation if Member States then feel free to transpose that legislation according to some personal timetable which does not make Europe more competitive or promote social cohesion. Commissioner, I am glad that in your eighth report you bring out some of your tough instruments and make it clear that you will instigate infringement proceedings against those Member States which fail to transpose. This should be done far more frequently in a whole range of Community policy areas, because there are some Member States that take advantage of the markets created by those Member States that do transpose, while not playing fair themselves. I also agree with Mr Clegg that accession countries should be looked at. Congratulations again to both rapporteurs. – Mr President, I think the rapporteur wants to comment. – Mr President, I am pleased indeed that Commissioners Lamy and Fischler will be going to Tokyo for the mini-ministerial with an approved position. I agree with you, Commissioner Lamy, that the agriculture negotiations will be very important in determining whether or not the meetings in Cancun are a success. I am pleased too that you have defined for us ‘modalities’, it is a word strange to the English language, but of course, once you come to rules and numbers you are then beginning to be so clear that certain vested interests begin to take fright, so these negotiations will be difficult. The European Union certainly has a world responsibility in terms of negotiations on agriculture. As Mr Cunha has just said, the volume of trade alone would make us significant. However, we do not have sole responsibility, and countries such as the United States should be reminded that they have a responsibility too. I am sure in your discussions with Bob Zurlik you will remind him of that. However, you said quite clearly that the European Union can and will negotiate, so let us look at what that means. Naturally we have the interest of European producers and consumers in higher food quality, rural development, environment protection and animal welfare. Some of those issues need clarification, and at the same time, the  of the development round are the needs of agriculture in developing countries where, proportionately, it is of far more importance than it is in the European Union. It is the principal source of income and employment in developing countries and a major tool in the fight against poverty and indeed in the improvement of food security. So our aim is multi-faceted, we need a better deal for agriculture in developing countries, but we also need to strengthen targeted support for certain aspects of European agriculture. We have a certain margin of manoeuvre within which to do it. There is some feeling within the Socialist Group that the proposal is somewhat lacking in ambition. We expect to be offering to the developing world a bigger and an earlier reduction in all agricultural tariffs and in getting rid of restrictions of imports from the developing world. We want more insistence on the importance of the greenbox and more attention to special and differential treatment. You will need to consider whether the current CAP reform goes far enough. The Socialist Group would probably think not. We will leave it to you to push the agenda forward as quickly as you can. – Madam President, as you know, the reason we are voting this report today rather than last week is because of the numerous and serious translation errors, particularly in the French version. You have received a letter of complaint from me about the number of mistakes in this report and in other reports with which I have had dealings recently. There is an error which has still not been corrected and that is on Amendment No 4. In the English version we refer to pharmaceutical and scientific organisations. In the French version that becomes ‘. Could you please make sure that French-speaking Members of this House know that the word  is not correct. It should not be in the amendment. And, again, I urge you, Madam President, to look at the standard of translation that we are receiving currently. Mr President, I would like to join in the congratulations just expressed to our rapporteur. At this time of night I cannot match him in using words skilfully in the form of puns as he did in his speech, but, well done! I am pleased that we will be able to present this to the public as a move towards efficiency and clarity. This will not get big headlines in newspapers for the rapporteur or anyone else, but it is extremely important for the public to have clarity and security in the measuring instruments used as listed for items of public health, public safety, public order, protection of the environment and, indeed, the levying of taxes and duties and the protection of consumers and fair trading. All those public goods need accurate, trustworthy measurements, and in the European Union we need to get rid of the barriers to trade that might exist without such instruments. A quite considerable range of instruments has been mentioned, including water meters, taxi meters, exhaust-gas analysers and breathalysers. We support, as Mr Glante has said, the principle of optionality: it is quite reasonable to give Member States a choice as to whether or not they regulate. But with that choice goes a responsibility not to put up trade barriers or to be unfairly competitive. The comitology issues that concern us appear to have been solved. This is an example of the new approach to harmonisation. We have to bear in mind that there may well be technological advances or problems we have not heard or thought of, perhaps, for example, electromagnetic interference. The simplification, clarity and conciseness of the rapporteur are helpful. I am glad that the Commission agrees and I look forward to the Council of Ministers taking the same approach. The joint declaration on the procedures for ensuring conformity with the review of texts will be welcome. I am glad that the countries which will be joining us in May 2004 will have an example of how Member States can make decisions in the context of a European Union which wants fair competition and does not want barriers to trade. I am sure that they have been following this work with interest. We hope there will be an agreement at second reading. Our committee has a reputation for putting in hours of work in the form of informal trialogues. Some of us sometimes question whether we are misguided in doing that in comparison with other committees such as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. But my belief is that, so far, we have managed in an assertive way to put across our points of view. I congratulate the rapporteur again. – Mr President, my voting machine is making a very strange noise and it has a lot of lights on it. – Mr President, we understand the reasons why Commissioners Lamy and Fischler cannot be with us this afternoon. Could you confirm, however, that there will be an opportunity for those two commissioners to report to us on the important negotiations at Doha and whether the EU's views were accepted or not. – Mr President, I extend my heartiest congratulations to Mrs Rothe for her exemplary work with colleagues in Parliament as well as with the Council and the Commission. She and Mrs Ayuso González have both expressed certain disappointment at the result, but I would say to Mrs Rothe that she should feel relief that what looked possible at one time has not come about. She has made considerable progress. It is eminently sensible to promote renewable energy because it enables us to fulfil our environmental objectives, creates jobs and ensures security of supply. The items enumerated by Mrs Rothe are targets, not yet mandatory. But I am pleased that we have the fall-back position should Member States fail in their duty. There is a definition which excludes the use of municipal waste, gives permission for successful support mechanisms to continue and thereby boosts investor confidence. My own country, the United Kingdom – the windiest country in Europe – has some lessons to learn from work in other countries. We need other measures as well as this directive. I know the Commissioner would agree on the need for a framework for energy support. We need research and development in the Sixth Framework Programme. We need to look at the single market to ensure that it does not contradict the aims of this directive and we need to make sure that renewables take their full place when we consider the Security of Supply Green Paper. Congratulations again to Mrs Rothe. I very much look forward to a positive result tomorrow. – Mr President, I would like to add a fifth footnote, beneath the table, saying: 'The financial reference amount has to be compatible with the ceilings of heading 3 of the financial perspective'. – Mr President, congratulations on a particularly focused summit as regards: the clarity of the objectives; the analysis of the tasks needed to meet those objectives; and the built-in progress-chasing system. There was particular emphasis at this summit on the European area of research and innovation, following the excellent communication from Commissioner Busquin. This is a domain of severe under-achievement in the European Union. We need deeper knowledge in science and technology. We have grasped the need to rectify our lack – by means of patent protection, mapping of areas of excellence, tax incentives for research and development, an electronic network for scientists and enhanced mobility for our researchers. The sixth framework programme will be another tool. As well as deeper knowledge, we need wider knowledge. We need people who have been disenfranchised in the areas of science and technology – women, older people and particularly those suffering disadvantage – to be on board in the quest for this wider knowledge. We need to use the knowledge in better ways. Of course, we need new products and we need new processes and we need new ideas about how our society should be run. We also need new sustainable technologies. The European Socialists are fully behind the leap forward which is possible given the cogent analysis that took place at the Lisbon Summit. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the Commissioner, and commiserate with her for her illness. Although she was actually speaking to Mrs Ahern, I hope that whatever happens to Kyoto, we would pursue policies on a no-regrets basis, which, apart from helping the climate, make complete business sense. The package is, as the Commissioner said, a response to the European Parliament, which is in turn responding to the very real fears and concerns of European citizens, as is our duty – my voice sounds rather similar to yours, Commissioner, I apologise: I too have a cold. Whatever one's views about the future of nuclear power, mine are considerably less optimistic than those of others who have spoken. I believe that market liberalisation means there is practically no future for nuclear power without a huge change in the ability of states to promote it. I believe that technical advancement in other forms of energy, including perhaps nuclear fusion, make the future very unsure. We are talking about the present, namely the present dangers of nuclear accidents and the present uncertainty surrounding the disposal of existing radioactive waste. I regret very much that the changes which the Convention could have made to the Euratom Treaty were not seized upon – in great cowardice – by Member States and by the Convention. As far as radioactive waste is concerned, there is no agreed solution. The Royal Society in the United Kingdom pointed out that the so-called solution of deep geological burial has many uncertain points which need to be solved technically. There is no public acceptance either in my country or in many others of deep-level storage. We must look at other possibilities, including partition and transmutation. The issue of decommissioning funds is one that has been rightly raised and is of great concern. I am glad that has been tackled. The risk of accidents, with which Mr Seppänen's report and your draft directive are concerned, has also been strengthened because of 11 September, as has the even more serious security question which is now facing us. I read today that Germany has come up with a somewhat bizarre solution which appears to be to cover nuclear power stations with artificial fog! Frankly, we need to be a little bit more constructive than that. I have some doubts about the capability of the European Commission to have the resources and rigour which our citizens demand. Therefore, my Group, although it supports the two reports, wants a lot more from you, Commissioner, and from our Member States. I hope that will be forthcoming. Citizens really worry about these issues. – Mr President, I would like to concentrate on research and the creation of the European research area, both through the framework programme and through coordination of national policies. A 3% target for investment in research was set in Barcelona, but it is beginning to look like my New Year's resolution – to eat less and take more exercise – in that it has not been kept and really needs a bit more effort! I attended an interesting benchmarking conference in Greece on research and technology. Let me tell you about some of the areas where people looked in detail at the performance of different Member States. Regarding women in science for example, countries like Spain, Portugal and Italy are turning out excellent women scientists and engineers, but other countries are doing very badly. When it comes to persuading young people to enter science and engineering, Nordic countries are doing well, as they do in a lot of categories. Others are doing poorly. This is a crisis across Europe. In terms of linking research with regional policy, again Finland is doing well, and Ireland exceptionally well but other countries are not. Representing Cambridge, I am pleased that some prestigious Cambridge institutions are now looking to South Yorkshire as a suitable location for research infrastructure. Some countries do well in clustering. The more we do of this comparison and the more we learn the lessons of the comparison, the more likely we are to keep our New Year's resolution. I will try harder on mine if Member States try harder on theirs! – Mr President, this evening we will identify what are probably the two make-or-break issues for the next WTO round in Cancun – TRIPS and public health and agriculture. Developing countries' perception of our good faith, good will and sincerity towards them will be tested by our attitude to these two issues. As we know, binding agreement was reached in the form of the Doha Declaration, paragraph 6 of which highlighted the difficult issue of WTO members with insufficient or no manufacturing capacities in the pharmaceutical sector, who could face difficulties in making effective use of compulsory licensing under the TRIPS agreement. The Council for TRIPS was asked to find an expeditious solution to this problem. Commissioner, we welcome the efforts you have made and the backing you have had to get this implemented. In an innovative and welcome suggestion you enlist the aid of the World Health Organisation. If the intention is not honoured, the new constraints would violate the spirit of the Doha Declaration and would show bad faith. I am sure you are right – and we have had discussions about this – to reject a moratorium on disputes or, indeed, a derogation. Neither is an adequate solution. The behaviour of the United States, not just on this issue but also - and far more seriously in some ways - on the issue of Iraq, is becoming increasingly difficult to understand. Indeed, the only possible explanation is its politicians paying undue attention to the financial interests of pharmaceutical companies who paid for their election. They have come up with only a unilateral solution and a narrow list. This is inadequate! Two deadlines have been missed already, and there is a real risk of deadlock if the efforts which we have channelled through you come to nothing. Concerns which have been raised, for example on the diversion trade in generic medicines, are being tackled. Hence the regulation by the Council of Ministers. Let us welcome your proposal of 7 January. It is a multilateral solution which enlists a reputable and widely trusted agency, the World Health Organisation. As you said, the solution must be lasting, fair and legally viable. The conflict should be examined on the basis of the guideline that public health has primacy over patents. We cannot overestimate the importance of finding a solution to this issue. I wish you very good luck, Commissioner. – Mr President, can I make clear that the Socialist Group wants the words "free, fair and socially-balanced" included. We are now voting on Amendment No 11 which deletes them. Have I understood correctly? So we will vote against this amendment and in favour of the original recital. – Mr President, as usual, very sincerely meant congratulations to the three rapporteurs involved in this package. Liberalisation of gas and electricity is certainly part of the Lisbon Process, but this does not mean a free-for-all in the electricity and gas markets. Our concern must be for those we represent: customers both commercial and – the majority of us – domestic. We want the lowest prices possible for them in line with choice, and for choice you need information, including labelling about the source of electricity. You need reliability and no discrimination; you need help, particularly at domestic level, for energy efficiency measures; and you need strong emphasis on public service obligations. And I would like to emphasise that research and development should be a public service obligation, because in a free market research is one of the areas that is most at risk. We have amendments on subjects such as renewable energy sources, energy efficiency, and combined heat and power. This is relevant. We must have joined-up thinking, and there must be references in this directive to those areas which may be covered by other directives but which must also be mentioned here. We want joined-up thinking, and we expect confirmation from the Commission that those measures, as important as these directives, will be part of the programme in the immediate future. We hope, therefore, for some limited success at Barcelona to take forward in a responsible way not a free-for-all, but a controlled competitive market. ,  – As rapporteur for the Intelligent Energy for Europe Programme, I would like to thank all three institutions for their cooperation in enabling us to reach successfully a second reading: the European Commission, of course, for coming forward with the proposals, the Council of Ministers and the three presidencies involved in this - the Spanish, Danish and above all the Greek presidencies - and especially the Members of the European Parliament and the staff of the European Parliament. I am pleased we have been able to find a compromise at second reading between the Parliament and the Council of Ministers by working very quickly and in fact by foregoing the normal full procedure for codecision matters. This is frankly not the best way to work, and I am sorry that the Council of Ministers is beginning to expect accelerated procedures as the norm. They are less transparent and less democratic and often lead to temporary misunderstandings, especially when negotiations are conducted – as they inevitably are – in only one language. The title of this programme is self-explanatory. We need only imagine the contents of a programme called 'stupid' energy. In such a programme we would use fossil fuels, which we know to be finite and which emit CO2, as quickly as possible and would burn them just as inefficiently and profligately, in a way which the United States could teach us. 'Stupid' energy would use electricity and gas to heat the air outside buildings rather than insulating the buildings. It would encourage us to drive more and larger cars at high speeds so that we use more fossil fuels, preferably with only one occupant in each car. Despite its high economic costs, its failure to deal with radioactive waste and the need for very high safety and security standards, 'stupid' energy would insist on the promulgation of nuclear power, even in countries at very high risk of nuclear weapons proliferation. Enough about 'stupid' energy. We currently do some of those things, which makes the current programme even more topical and even more useful. It is actually a modest programme, with EUR 200 million allocated for four years, which is frankly still inadequate. I hope that further funding will be made available during the programme, in particular when new Member States join. The programme has four objectives, all of which are indeed intelligent: the promotion of renewable energy sources, of energy efficiency, of clean transport and of all these three things in developing countries. All four objectives are important and I congratulate the European Commission on its intention to establish coordinating measures. I look forward to hearing the Commissioner's declaration, which is a declaration that I made clear was essential if we were to find agreement. Parliament's amendments to the Council of Ministers' common position encompass the budget – we insisted on an increase to EUR 200 million with a review clause – and numerous clarifications. I am pleased to say that 22 of Parliament's amendments were accepted in the common position and others have been accepted in subsequent negotiations. There is an unfortunate omission as regards the need for a strategic agency in the field of energy. Parliament will pursue that idea in other ways. The Commission has done well to come forward with this programme. Its measures will help with protection of the environment, security of supply and with our industrial competitiveness. It will complement efforts by Member States and will encourage the laggardly Member States to do more. I will not name them to spare people's blushes. I am particularly pleased that the COOPENER Programme, which is itself modest, will serve as leverage for much better-funded programmes such as those foreseen in Johannesburg. Over 2 billion people in the world have no access to electricity. This programme will help. One worrying aspect is the difficulty the Commission apparently has with the lead times for its proposals. These proposals were published so late that it is not going to be possible to commit money to projects until February 2004. I hope that the Commissioner will undertake a review of the timescale for preparing legislation to prevent problems of this sort, which I am sure are as disappointing to her as they are to us. Nevertheless, the Intelligent Energy for Europe Programme will be of very real value and I look forward to its adoption following the Commissioner's declaration, and to a vote tomorrow which I hope will be very well supported by a European Parliament that will follow the programme with great interest. – Thank you, Mr Prodi, for your presentation and your documentation. Congratulations on using the Internet for the general public – a very good idea. I will start with trade. We agree with you that we need a rules-based trading system. It is essential. Seattle failed because the United States, in particular, appeared unable to grasp the legitimacy of policies such as environmental protection, the preservation of rural communities through the common agricultural policy, animal welfare, health concerns and social rights. It displayed incredible insensitivity to the legitimate concerns of the developing world and, frankly, the developing world has little so far to thank the WTO for. We expect the European Union to continue negotiations, maintaining our strong positions on all these issues and using our links with countries in the developing world to ensure that the next round is a fair round. Please, can we have detailed proposals in the next three months about how this will happen. Innovation and knowledge – very appropriate for a new century. How much innovation has taken place in the Commission, or indeed in the Parliament may I say? We had a White Paper on innovation some years ago – what has happened since? One thing I would like to say very strongly is that we are very concerned in follow-up, not simply in excellent communications, which we welcome, but in follow-up, follow-up, follow-up!!!! We have under way the Fifth Research Framework Programme – what has happened to what was learned in the Fourth? What is the dissemination for the new ideas, the new products, the new comparisons of socio-economic systems? Follow-up again, please. We welcome incidentally the formation of a European research area which you and Commissioner Busquin have put forward. This is an excellent way in which to begin the century. I welcome the forthcoming communication on enterprise, but I hope that past work will also be looked at before we go ahead with more. I will now use a tremendous cliché truism – 'our greatest resource in the European Union is our people. Is it not shameful that large Member States like my own and Germany cannot supply the number of people skilled in information technology? Is it not disgraceful that they are having to attract people from countries where those skills are needed? It is a disgrace and I hope that you will take it up when you look at legislation. A further shocking waste of resources, Commissioner, is that women in technical, scientific and information technology fields are squandering their skills. I hope there will be a follow-up to the Science White Paper. . – Mr President, this report concerns the proposed adoption by the European Union of the United States’ energy star programme as it applies to office and communication technology equipment. This, colleagues, is not the sexiest title on this week’s agenda, perhaps, but it is directly linked to the future of our planet and to the possibility of even more devastating weather events, mass movements of people and crop failure. Our irresponsible and profligate use of energy, with its consequential emissions of C02 and other environmental hazards must stop. Ironically enough, it is in the United States, where the energy star scheme originated, that we have recently seen the absurd spectacle of power cuts in California, largely because of the incredible increase in the use of computers and other office equipment with the accompanying need for air-conditioning within a framework of quite bizarre and unwise deregulation. Things would have been even worse without the energy star programme. This scheme, which is voluntary, was introduced in 1992 and is now very widespread. It has been officially adopted in Australia and Japan for example. Members may in fact have seen the energy star logo on computers bought in the EU, although this means nothing yet since the technology has to be specially activated, which is done only in the United States. This evening we are discussing the draft regulation which will implement the US/EU agreement on which we shall vote in the next session. It is a voluntary scheme and it is hoped that between now and 2015 savings of 10 terawatt hours and 5 million tonnes of C02 emissions will be achieved in the EU through this scheme. I now enter the world of science fiction and explain that to be energy-efficient, computers must go to sleep, but they must wake up instantly when they are required to do so. When they are asleep their electricity consumption is cut on average from 100 watts to 5 watts. Given the number of computers in homes, schools, workplaces, etc., you can see how the savings mount up from the good sleeping habits of those machines. Until now, the European Union has produced its own energy efficient standards, often mandatory and the European Parliament has taken seriously its responsibility as a co-legislator to see that such standards are sufficiently stringent. That is why there would be very serious reservations from Parliament about adopting this US energy star scheme if that were to be our only measure and especially if there were no provisions in the agreement for regular review of the results, with the objective, of course, of always being at the leading edge of the relevant technologies. Luckily that is not the case however, and the Commission is to be given powers to negotiate improvements in the technical specifications. And it has been made quite clear to the US authorities in a side letter to the agreement that the European Parliament, which would have been a co-legislator with the Council for similar measures at European level, will be consulted by the Commission on matters concerning technical specifications. In the amendments to my report, we make it clear that further measures are certainly needed, including the glaringly obvious one of switching the machines off sometimes and withdrawing particularly inefficient machines from the market, either voluntarily or, if necessary, with legislation. I am quite sure that the Council will see the wisdom of these amendments and of the regular and earlier monitoring of the energy star scheme as one, but only one, component of our energy efficient action plan. We believe the current legal base is the correct one and we join the Commission in their suggestions. As rapporteur, I would like to thank the Commission for their cooperation and help and of course thank my colleagues, especially Mrs Müller, who drafted a very useful opinion from the Environment Committee. We all hope that the energy star scheme is a success and we look forward to watching computers throughout Europe going to sleep at the correct time. – Mr President, I should like to start by congratulating Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca for his usual, very cooperative and consensual approach. I know that Mrs Zrihen, our socialist shadow, who unfortunately cannot be here this evening, appreciated the way in which he worked. This directive, part of a package of measures aimed at making our use of energy more intelligent, should disseminate the existing good practice of some Member States right across the EU, and will also be very important in improving the situation in applicant countries where energy-efficient buildings could do much to help their economies as well as protecting the environment. We as socialists are very supportive of the amendments put forward by Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca and others. The rapid growth of air conditioning needs to be taken into account more, the possibilities open to Member States in the form of inducements should be clarified, and many of the definitions need to be tightened. One point that Mrs Zrihen wanted to make was that the surface area definitions must be re-examined over the next four years. It could well be that this directive is insufficiently ambitious and that it should also apply to much smaller surface areas. We ask the Commission to prepare for a reduction if that proves necessary. In conclusion, may I once again thank Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca and the Commission. We look forward to more directives as promised by the Commissioner in this important area of energy efficiency, of energy intelligence. Mr President, normally a scientific and technological cooperation agreement is straightforward, very welcome and an occasion for optimism, especially if it is the successor to earlier agreements on which good scientific work has been done. Sadly, this agreement cannot be straightforward. From the scientific point of view, collaboration with Israel is no doubt useful in the Sixth Framework Programme. It is a strong scientific country and, as we have heard, some very useful Mediterranean-wide projects, including research into water treatment, have been carried out and could be carried out in future. However, we are not discussing a normal country or a normal part of the world. Israel is not a normal country because many of the present government's actions are completely unacceptable: building a fence, occupying territory, breaching human rights, using repression. Despite some joint scientific work with Palestinians, I have had complaints regarding barriers to some of that work. Our Group considered very carefully whether to vote in favour of this agreement. There are two perfectly valid, tenable points of view. One could say – as some will – that signing or ratifying this agreement will be perceived as giving the green light and an encouraging signal and endorsement to the actions of the Israeli Government. That is certainly not the intention. In the past the European Parliament has very successfully asked for scientific cooperation to be frozen. Some Members advocate voting against this agreement and indeed taking much further action to show the Israeli Government our disapproval. A second alternative – and the one that I recommend – is to consider that science and research are positive, that the results of that work are of benefit to human beings and that this allows dialogue and provides an opening for work with Palestinians. Other points can certainly – and probably will – be made in political dialogue. There may be cause for action elsewhere. We have had long discussions and have come to the conclusion, in majority – although not unanimously – that the second alternative, to put faith in the possibility that the scientific dialogue, without any endorsement of the Israeli Government's actions, will bring some progress. We have great reservations. We want Palestinian participation without barriers or handicaps. Of course we want no nuclear, military or dual-use research. We want a very close monitoring of the situation. We want the EU-Israel Research Committee to report regularly so that we can see whether this act of faith in the value of science has been worthwhile or has been misinterpreted by a government whose actions we condemn. – President, the basic premise of terrorism is that the unexpected, the unconsidered, the unbelievable will terrify the population into accepting political claims, whether they are rational or not. Thank you, Commissioner, for your statement. I welcome the cooperation you have outlined and the special attention which will be given to nuclear installations. I hope that Member States will cooperate with the Commission in this work. Our reaction must be to do all that we can to prevent the sort of widespread slaughter, injury and chaos we saw in the United States. Air travel, nuclear power stations, chemical works and oil depots, are all obvious targets for terrorists. They are designed, built and protected accordingly at very considerable cost to the public. The French government now protects the reprocessing centre at La Hague with fighter planes and missiles. No doubt the United Kingdom does likewise in Sellafield. We cannot inhabit the weird minds of terrorists, but we can pay the high cost of protection. We can work together and we can be very careful when we consider building, or indeed retaining, a potential target. Things will not be the same after 11 September, as many others have said. No one had conceived of using a fully loaded, large passenger plane as a weapon. We have to factor that into our calculations. Please keep reporting to Parliament. We want the citizens of Europe to know that everything possible has been done to keep them safe. – Mr President, I was present yesterday and I signed the register but my name does not appear in the Minutes. I should like that to be corrected. – Mr President, if we genuinely want a knowledge-based economy there are preconditions: you need a critical mass of numerate and scientifically trained citizenry in the workplace, expenditure of at least 3% of GDP on research and development, research infrastructure and networks of expertise and a rapid system of dissemination and exploitation. These preconditions are generally not met in the EU, despite the Lisbon Declaration. First, we are very short of engineers and scientists: retraining in science is an essential part of lifelong learning. Secondly, only two Member States – Sweden, luckily, and Finland – spend more than 3% of GDP on research and they have the industrial competitiveness which accompanies that expenditure. Foresight and dissemination will, of course, be helped by the forthcoming Sixth Framework Programme and even more by the creation of the European research area, with its networking of centres of excellence. Without Member State commitment at Stockholm, the knowledge-based economy simply will not happen. So I say to Member States: "Over to you at Stockholm. If you want it to happen, put your money where your mouth is". Mr President, regarding the order in which amendments would be voted, I would suggest that when we look at those amendments referring to the date we take first those furthest away from the Commission's proposal, which includes a date. Those would be Amendment 68 from Mr Bowe and others, followed by Amendments 10, 64, 25 and 24. That would be a more logical order, given that they are furthest away from the Commission's suggestion. I hope the voting lists can be changed along those lines. – Since you, Commissioner, will evidently be using the European Group on Ethics as an instrument for conducting the framework programme on research, can you let us know to what extent you will inform Parliament about the advice given to you by that group, about the composition of the group and indeed the discussions that you have with the group and with its Chair – when that person arrives? . – Mr President, I would like to add the words 'the financial reference amount has to be compatible with the ceilings of heading 3 of the financial perspective'. – Mr President, I should like to congratulate the five rapporteurs and the Commission, who have steadfastly showed their willingness to listen to the European Parliament, both in the Caudron report and since. I will speak briefly about each of the reports. First of all, I welcome Mr van Velzen's emphasis on life sciences other than genomics and his advocacy of translational research, which means rapid transposition into clinical applications. This is something which will appeal to the public. I also welcome our amendment, which adds nanosciences to nanotechnology. The recent excellent STOA report on nanotechnologies makes it clear that we are still at the stage of nanoscience. That must be emphasised. As far as aeronautics is concerned, I am glad that there will be some attention to the health of passengers. I support our amendment on space science. Indeed I would like more attention to the big science projects in the European research area outside the framework programme. Of course I support Parliament's new emphasis on health and safety at work. I support Mrs Zorba's conclusions. Like her, I was delighted with the increase in funding for science and society. However, I agree with her that some funding should come from the priority thematic areas for the science and society implications. Multidisciplinary research, yes; a European higher education area, with the synergies that implies for the European research area. We should be training people in research management and ethics. Mr Piétrasanta has made an excellent analysis of the new tasks of the JRC as a technical reference body and a support mechanism for decision-making. I greatly welcome his emphasis on the need for monitoring and the need for the European Parliament to be involved in such monitoring – not just in the JRC. As far as Mr Alyssandrakis' report is concerned, I would welcome a breakthrough in fusion research, not least because it is far less dangerous than nuclear fission and we need to have an alternative to that form of energy. I am fairly sceptical about whether or not ITER will proceed within this framework programme, but we will see. Every citizen wants action on radioactive waste. The Royal Society in the UK emphasised that recently. It has not been solved yet. I am a great advocate of transmutation and partitioning and welcome any support that can be given to those technologies. I am not, however, a supporter of spending EU money on research into new reactors. This is something that should be funded by the nuclear industry itself. We are not in the business of giving industrial aid to that particular sector. That is not what the public is calling for. As far as Mr Schwaiger is concerned, he is absolutely right to say that we must have, before long, some sort of  in the sector of nuclear safety. So congratulations to everyone for their good work and cooperation and good luck to all our scientists. – Mr President, the Commissioner is working under the constraints of the undemocratic and anachronistic Euratom Treaty. Despite this, would you, Commissioner, accept the need for the European Parliament to give an opinion on the two directives and communication which you are presenting to us, particularly on whether or not the case for deep-level storage of highly radioactive waste has been proved? This is contrary to the views of the British Royal Society, which finds that the scientific case has not been made. – Mr President, I am glad that this debate is proving educational and enlightening for you. Sometimes debates are not exciting; it is much more interesting to talk about dramatic weather conditions and storms in France. But if we want to stop events like that, this is the sort of detailed technical work we have to do. I would like to congratulate Mr Turmes for his very thorough work, his technical expertise and his willingness to engage in proper discussions on compromise with Members from other groups. That is appreciated, and I think it is the responsible way we should work in this Parliament. If we take our Kyoto and other obligations seriously and want to prevent tragic weather events, we have to work with some sense of urgency. It is eight years since negotiations with the industry concerned and with energy experts began, on ways in which we could use the lighting sector to save electricity. There are many reasons for doing that. It is an extremely sensible investment for businesses within the European Union to have energy efficient lighting. We have to have an internal market without unjustified, obstructive trade barriers. Our enterprises throughout the single market have to work in the same conditions; there has to be the famous level playing-field, always bearing in mind particular national concerns and circumstances. Electricity, the Commission reminds us, accounts for 35% of our total primary energy use and produces 30% of our man-made carbon dioxide emissions. Tackling that sector, as well as the transport sector, is essential. It is very appropriate therefore that we look at minimum efficiency standards in any area which uses electricity. We have looked successfully at domestic boilers and industrial boilers, at fridges and freezers and we have some voluntary agreements – about which I might have reservations – in other household appliance sectors. If I can quote from a study carried out in the United Kingdom at our very well known Building Research Centre: "the production of performance standards, particularly for fluorescent lamp ballasts, appears from this study to be one of the most effective actions which the EC could take to reduce energy consumption for lighting in commercial buildings and is thus worth further consideration and development." That very highly esteemed research establishment decided this was a sector we should work on. One problem is that those who buy lights are not necessarily those who use them. Those who invest in buildings are not the people who will pay the electricity bills in future years. The huge numbers of lights, however, mean that we have to look to ensure that those purchasers have to make sensible purchases, by ensuring that what is on the market meets the highest possible standards. We are only talking of newly produced fluorescent lighting ballasts. We are not suggesting that every single one has to be replaced tomorrow or next week. That would be an absurd way to carry on. We are suggesting that, in a very phased, measured and well-considered way, as the current lights in use are replaced, over the next 15-20 years, they are replaced with the best possible technology. A very long adaptation period, that is how we work in the European Union. We do not jump on our enterprises with surprise packages about which they have no warning and which would cause them considerable difficulties. Mr Turmes has indeed been reasonable. The 800 people employed in manufacturing magnetic ballasts will not lose their jobs next week. There will be plenty of time for a phase-in period. We in the Socialist Group are against the additional amendments which have been submitted. They are not in line with the aims of the report. But we support those amendments which we signed as part of the compromise, many of which add, as I am sure the Commissioner would agree, sensible definitions. I hope the Commissioner will tell us that this is only part of her aim to increase energy efficiency within the European Union and make our promises more than mere political headlines. – Madam President, there is in fact a very serious translation problem because the English text says the following: "Believes that the EU should ensure that WTO rules relating to the agricultural sector do not have an adverse effect on the economies of developing countries and that security of food supply should be considered as a multifunctional aspect of agriculture". You will see that the French version says the opposite! This may happen more often than we think but fortunately this was noticed on this occasion. Please vote bearing in mind the English original. – Mr President, Commissioners you will be beginning to find our speeches repetitive. Great: in a multi-national and cross-party body, that means our message will get through. We all agree, for example, that energy is the largest contributor by far to the emission of greenhouse gases. Some of us think that nuclear energy is expensive, outdated, potentially dangerous and no solution at all to energy problems. But we all agree that transport is the key energy problem: fossil fuels must be replaced by alternatives, and very soon. How? We agree that renewable energy and energy efficiency are key solutions. This was recognised in Johannesburg, but unfortunately, only to a limited extent. However, we should act quickly on this through the EU. Remember that the key role of energy in poverty alleviation was recognised at Johannesburg, and that the new EU programme, COOPENER, on renewable energy and energy efficiency in the developing world, will help to access some of the funding which will be available, this programme is important. There is, incidentally, a very strong gender implication to the provision of energy, because of the tasks of women throughout the developing world. The failure to achieve targets for renewable energy – a failure for which the United States, to their shame, are largely responsible – can be overcome with goodwill and effort from the European Union. On the matter of implementation: Carrying suitcases from summit to summit does nothing. It is what happens in between the summits that matters, and I urge you, Commissioners, to use your legislative powers and your monitoring ability to ensure that what was said at Johannesburg, even if it is not enough, is carried through. – Mr President, my congratulations also to Mr Lange, who has shown real interest and enthusiasm in presenting his report and his amendments following on for Mr Robles Piquer. I am pleased to see our new Commissioner, Mrs de Palacio. We look forward to working with her and we hope she will soon share, if she does not already, our enthusiasm for renewable energy. Together with the SAVE Programme, we have in ALTENER II a way of showing the public of Europe that there are rational ways to meet the challenge of climate change: energy efficiency and renewable sources of energy. We are asking Member States to pledge their commitment to the encouragement of renewable energy – and they all say, individually, that they have this commitment – by signing a Charter on renewable energy – the EURENEW Charter. This would symbolise the added value of working together in the EU on society’s wishes and needs. Of course, the environmental benefits of renewable energy are obvious. But Mr Langen wisely reminds us of the enormous potential for European industry. One needs only to look at Denmark. And I fully support his call for the European Renewable Energies Export Council to be strengthened. Sadly, we lost one of the driving forces with the sudden death, earlier this year, of John Bonda, but others will carry on his work in the Export Council. I must say I am very pleased at the vocational training element of ALTENER II. That is to be welcomed. The budget is clearly inadequate and has to be increased if this programme is to be properly effective. I hope that an indication can be given by the Council in time for the appropriate changes to be made in the first reading of the 2000 budget. The emphasis on information dissemination in ALTENER II is very important indeed, and I look forward, if it is available yet, to looking at the Agores Centre on the Worldwide Web which is clearly intended to bring together all sorts of information on renewable energy so that everyone can look it up and can be kept up-to-date. Alongside ALTENER, and the research into renewable energy in the 5th Framework Programme, which we hope will be very significant, we need urgent flanking measures such as the “feed-in directive” for the electricity market. I hope we will hear more about this shortly from the Commission. The White Paper raised expectations, and we look forward to the exciting campaign for take-off with its 1 million PV systems, its large windfarm, its biomass and most exciting of all its 100 communities where all the electricity will come from renewable energy. There is nowhere in the whole of European Union where renewable energy is not relevant, whether it is Lapland or the Islands of Greece. The ALTENER II Programme will work and can work in every Member State and of course, outside the European Union in applicant countries, for example, as well as in the Mediterranean countries where the potential is huge. Renewable energy should become the symbol of what is sensible and progressive about Europe. This programme will help us obtain that symbol. – Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your presentation of the Spanish Presidency's priorities. I will comment on just one of them, namely your determination to complete the single market in the gas and electricity sectors. We have misgivings about your approach. You want the EU to be guided by five major principles: openness, liberalisation, competition, transparency and interconnection. These are fundamental to an open market. Energy, however, is not like other goods or services. It has other facets: basic social need and environmental impact. A rushed and ill-considered liberalisation would be highly dangerous. Your own country, like California, has recently suffered major power cuts following liberalisation. Liberalisation leads to a dash for gas, forcing us to import gas from some very fragile regimes. We need to ensure that indigenous energy sources can play a major role in energy supply. Renewable energies in particular need legal protection and promotion. The greatest contribution to security of supply is intelligent use of energy, one of the regulatory requirements of wise liberalisation. Please ensure that energy efficiency becomes a key national indicator at Barcelona. Uneven opening of the market between countries brings huge resentment. We strongly support your efforts to put pressure on certain governments, which keep their markets closed while they take advantage of open markets elsewhere. I look forward to your assurance that liberalisation of energy will take place in a very strictly regulated framework which protects the environment and takes heed of social consequences, some of which are very serious. Unlike Mr Evans, we think that is important. – Mr President, recently, along with other passengers, I was kept on board a flight from London to Brussels for two hours after landing at Brussels, because of the presence on that flight of a Chinese gentleman travelling from Toronto who was quite clearly rather ill and was suspected of having SARS. During our two hours on board, it was clear to us that neither the Belgian health authorities nor the airline concerned, British Midland, had the faintest idea what to do in such an eventuality. I am glad to be able to tell you the person tested negative. However, I would be grateful, in case similar incidents should occur, which they undoubtedly will, if you could contact both the Commission and the Council of Ministers, representing the Member States, so that appropriate measures can be put in place and so that both airlines and national health authorities know what to do if someone they suspect of being gravely ill is on board one of their planes. – Mr President, congratulations to the rapporteur, who has achieved a quite remarkable level of consensus right across this House. That consensus is leading to the joint initiative he mentioned, which we shall be announcing tomorrow. This is unusually good working together. Thank you, too, to the Commissioner, who works within the limits of a very inadequate Treaty. There is no energy chapter in the Treaty. This is a big gap and we must continue to put pressure on Member States if we want a coherent policy. That is what disappoints me about this action plan. It does not seem to be part of a coherent energy policy with short-term, medium-term and long-term strategies. It is a piecemeal approach in which the emphasis varies according to the publication. The case for energy efficiency is clear and unanswerable. It meets all three requisites of an energy policy: environmental impact, security of supply and competitiveness. All are helped by energy efficiency. So if this is so self-evident, the obvious question is why do we need an action plan? Why is this not happening automatically? We know what the barriers are to accepting such a common sense solution. Ignorance of the facts, particularly at household and small firm level. Lack of incentive – energy in the European Union is artificially cheap because of the subsidies for the conventional forms of energy, which are often denied but certainly there, and the failure to take on board the external costs. In many Member States, there is no requirement to even look at demand site management. Commissioner, what has happened to the rational planning directive? Please bring it forward again. It has not finished its journey through the legislative process. Transport is, of course, a particularly difficult area and action is needed. This action plan of the Commission's is unambitious. A 1% per annum improvement would be very easy to achieve. We need at least 2.5%; that is attainable. We want to give serious consideration to the setting up of an energy programme agency with the task of producing the coherent energy strategy I mentioned. We can look at energy appliances. However, I am dubious about voluntary agreements. The Sixth Framework Programme gives us an opportunity to look at research and I hope that tomorrow, Commissioner, you will join with us in looking forward to a more intelligent use of energy in the European Union. – Mr President, the vast majority of United Kingdom citizens or indeed EU citizens were deeply shocked and dismayed at the recent events at BNFL. Let me quote BNFL's own words: "At company level it has been recognised that in the mind of many stake holders quality and safety are inextricably linked. Failure to comply in one aspect of an accredited quality system has led to a major loss in confidence in BNFL overall." That is from a management which is now aware of its shortcomings, a management that foolishly engaged in staff reductions, now reversed thank goodness. The highest standards are required of any nuclear installation. I have considerable sympathy for the workers at BNFL let down by a sloppy management. Their livelihoods were endangered. They will now speak out whenever they see evidence of lack of safety culture. I do not want to talk at this stage about the viability or wisdom of reprocessing nor about the economics of MOX. That is not under debate, although those matters should be debated in the UK and elsewhere. BNFL is now in for a very difficult period and deservedly. The main reason this is being raised in the European Parliament is to point out the lack of European harmonised standards in the nuclear industry. There are harmonised standards in almost every other aspect of European industry. The Euratom Treaty is deficient and that must be rectified so that we can have the sort of directive we need. We cannot really contemplate enlargement without some sort of  in the nuclear sector. The Commissioner says she does not feel it advisable to produce a communication. Please come to our committee Commissioner and we can discuss this further. I think one is needed in the near future indicating how we could achieve more harmonisation – of course not at the lowest standards in existence but at the most stringent. If you want public acceptance – and many of you do – of the nuclear industry, you have to ensure that. Commissioner you say that as far as new facilities are concerned, if there are to be any, you feel that there is a case. I really do not see the difference, and I urge you to reconsider what you have said this evening to come to our committee, look at this one case as an example of what we need for the public of Europe and for the workers in our nuclear plants. – Mr President, congratulations are in order today of course to Mrs Read on her excellent report and to Commissioner Liikanen. This is a positive debate, very positive for Europe, and widespread interest has been shown, as evidenced by the large number of amendments. Let me pick out the points that we think are most important: infrastructure, legal certainty – people must know where they are – and the skills offensive, which ought, please, to be targeted not simply at our schoolchildren and students but at groups which have been neglected, such as women and older people, who represent an enormous source of skill if it were to be exploited. It is a disgrace that large countries in the past have not foreseen the need to train, and countries like Germany and the United Kingdom should not be having to bring in workers from elsewhere. I know that we will have a very good advertising and information campaign, and that we will capture the imagination of the citizens of Europe. We must not forget people with disabilities. There is also the fact that the documentation is not available to partially sighted people, and that is an oversight which could be put right in future. We must prevent divisions, divisions between the regions of Europe, between the households of Europe and between the individuals of Europe. Business-to-business communications are doing well but we must enhance communications between business and consumers in the European Union, where we lag behind the United States. Of course, to do that we have to ensure that people – customers – are convinced of privacy and security, and your measures will help to bring about that confidence. Business-to-consumer communications are particularly important for the elderly, the housebound and for those with family responsibilities who are finding it difficult to juggle work and career, overwhelmingly women. There are ethical issues which we must give regard to, but I am very optimistic, and I think that Mrs Read will continue her work alongside you, and we will find in this House many missionaries for the 'e-Europe' communication. – President, we can only vote on the amendment in front of us and the amendment in front of us asks for four words to be deleted. We will vote against that amendment. No other amendment is possible. – Mr President, on a point of order. This is to do with my report on women and science. The debate can take place this evening but it will not be possible to vote on the report tomorrow because of extremely serious and misleading translation mistakes, particularly in the French version. I would ask you to make clear that when a corrected version of the amendments and my resolution are available then the vote will take place at the soonest plenary session. It is not possible to vote tomorrow because the translation, particularly into French, is so very badly flawed I am afraid. – Mr President, I took over the job of committee draftsman following the heart attack of Mr Desama who was originally to have done the work for the committee. We hope he will soon be back with us. My thanks and congratulations to Mr Bourlanges for his painstaking work on behalf of the Members of Parliament. The Committee on Industry covers 120 budget lines – so you can see our task is fairly complex! We cover the energy programmes, those relating to industry, including small and medium firms, the research programmes under the framework programmes which of course amount to more or less 60% of the internal policy expenditure of the European Union, and the trade and technical assistance lines. As far as the energy lines are concerned, we were sorry that the Committee on Budgets did not follow our line in increasing the expenditure for Altener and Save. Those are renewable energy and energy efficiency programmes currently in conciliation. If we get, as expected, an increase as a result of conciliation more money will, of course, be asked for next year. As far as research is concerned, and after very many long discussions with Mr Bourlanges, I am interested to know what he intends to do. We, in the Industry Committee, do not want the research programmes broken down into dozens and dozens of lines, one for each key action. But we do want to monitor each key action. I think we have reached an agreement with the Commission that information will be provided to us at intervals and in a form that allows us to monitor that spending in the way we want to. I am also sorry that the Committee on Budgets did not approve moving the training of the nuclear inspectorate in the former Soviet Union from the external policy to the energy line where that training could be done far more efficiently. We have made this argument very clearly and we will make it again. As far as monitoring is concerned, we intend in our committee to take one member responsible for monitoring each of the 120 lines. They will be expected to follow the spending, to look at the way the projects are organised, to visit the projects and to be in a position to let us know how things are going. . We welcome the result of today's vote on the Liese report on the 6th Framework Programme. The issue of funds for collaborative research projects using human embryonic stem cells and stem cell lines was discussed in depth in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy who reached a consensus view, reproduced today in Parliament. This will allow us to continue with this vital research which has the potential to bring relief to millions of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and diabetes sufferers. Several colleagues tabled amendments to the report seeking to express their own, or nationally based views on the matter, which would impose restrictive conditions on deadlines for use of stem cells or stem cell lines. This would discourage or simply prevent innovative research in this area confining scientists and researchers to using ageing supernumerary embryos which are not in the best condition and could even result in an increasing number of stem cells being consumed for this purpose. There is no ethical consensus on this issue in Europe. – Mr President, I am pleased to announce that in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy this evening the last piece of the jigsaw, Mr Clegg's package, was voted through unanimously. The Lisbon aspiration has been an ambitious one, and it has taken dogged and indefatigable rapporteurs, as well as a quite determined Commissioner, to reach the stage we are at tonight. We have considerable experience with the original rather limited liberalisation directive in our Member States. We have seen that there has been market opening in some countries to 100% of customers, that there has been an unbundling of network operators in all Member States to some extent, but not completely, and there has been a limited increase in clarity and transparency of regulation. However, those earlier directives were inadequate. There is still market dominance and predatory, anti-competitive behaviour in some Member States, and some European citizens have not benefited from an enlarged and opened market in particular countries. I have no fears that what is being suggested is wild and savage liberalisation because we have insisted on regulation unbundling, public service guarantees and labelling for environmental impact which leads to informed choice by customers. We have seen that cross-subsidies will be prevented, particularly the quite scandalous use of decommissioning funds in the nuclear sector. That is not an anti-nuclear remark, that is a pro-fair play remark. There are risks from liberalisation, but they do not concern security of supply. Types of energy choices can be affected, however. We need to look at that. Environmental protection need not be at risk, nor need access by the public to energy. Indeed, fuel poverty has decreased thanks to liberalisation as carried out in the UK. The risks are to research. That is an important risk and we must draw our attention to that in future work. And there is a risk of skills being lost; again this is a risk to which Member States and the European Union must pay attention. Tomorrow's vote is an historic one, though we call many votes historic in this Parliament. It is an important move forward. Amendment No 6 to the Mombaur report should not be admissible. It is not something that was covered earlier, but I commend those who have worked hard on this package. We will have a better use of energy in Europe because of it. – I want to address three points. Firstly, the liberalisation of the energy market, secondly the European research area and the flanking measures which need to accompany the sixth framework programme, and thirdly, entrepreneurship. On entrepreneurship, is it not about time that we heard some of the results from the many benchmarking exercises which have been undertaken? Is it not time that we named and shamed those Member States who are not taking the actions necessary to improve entrepreneurship and competitiveness? The European Parliament's Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has voted on the liberalisation directives for gas and electricity and we have reached the conclusion that if liberalisation takes place without paying attention to the environmental, consumer and social consequences, you are embarking on a dangerous journey. We would ask, for example, that energy efficiency be used as an indicator in the Lisbon and Barcelona processes. If a Member State is so inept that it does not use energy intelligently, it will never be competitive. It is one of the best indicators of the will of that country to do well in today's world, so we ask for indicators there. And please, tell us what your many benchmarking exercises have shown. – I join Mrs Flesch in complaining about the quality of translation. The English version of this amendment is completely different to the French original and largely incomprehensible. I do not want English-speaking people who look at this amendment to think for one second that I voted for that. I am prepared to vote for the French version and could I ask that you investigate the quality of translation on this report. – Madam President, on a point of order. I wish to inform the House of the news of the closure of a car factory in Luton in the United Kingdom, with the loss of many thousands of jobs. I am sure the House will be concerned to hear of this latest example of decline in industry in Europe. – Mr President, we welcome, and do not take for granted, Mr Lamy's cooperative approach in working with Parliament. There are issues which the Socialist Group, like others, finds difficult: the Singapore issues, especially investment and competition. Of course we appreciate the importance of both. On investment: currently there are over 2000 bilateral investment treaties. That leads to great complexity for developing countries and an imbalance of power, which will not disappear with a multilateral treaty. On competition: naturally domination by just a few companies leads to high costs, and developing countries are the prime victims. However, we are still concerned about our approach to the Doha Agenda, and we are not yet convinced that the WTO is the right place or that this is the right time to discuss investment and competition. Like the Commissioner, we have listened very carefully to developing countries. We know that they show very great disquiet about the Singapore issues. The declaration of the trade ministers of the least developed countries of 2 June made this absolutely clear. Some of the larger developing countries are downright opposed to negotiations on these issues. Therefore, there is no way near the explicit consensus which is needed. What should the EU do in those circumstances? Should we persist and foist an agenda on unwilling developing countries? If we do, there will be a price to pay in other negotiations! There are many more important issues and they are identified in our resolution and in the Commission's mandate. Let us concentrate on them at Cancun. – Mr President, behaviour which is apparently irrational usually has an explanation. President Bush's decision to impose steel tariffs is irrational. The tariffs are a flagrant breach of world trade rules. There has been no sudden calamitous increase in imports. US steel has been uncompetitive and in deep trouble over a long period; it has not become so suddenly. Tariffs will not solve the US steel problem, but they will badly harm America's allies. They will destroy American jobs in other sectors and they will damage world trade relations. Knowing all this, why would President Bush take this irrational decision? We know why. He wants to buy votes in steel-producing areas come November and is so desperate to do so that he will gladly sacrifice his international credibility – and we in the EU and others elsewhere in the world are meant to pay the price! Talk about collateral damage! Of course, this cannot be tolerated. We do not subsidise steel, we do not dump steel. We went through terrible times to make our steel competitive. Our market is open. There is no possible justification for this deliberate attack on the livelihood of European steel workers. Remember, this is the President who thinks he can provide world leadership. Global leader in military power he may be, but he is a global dunce in citizenship and respect for others. Commission: take him on. You have all of us behind you and you have the tools to ensure that you can act both legally and effectively. Go for it! – Mr President, we have been sleepwalking for decades. British Conservatives still are but it is time to wake up. We have two choices. One is a bad choice and that is to adopt a short-term fix and cut taxes, abdicate our government responsibilities. We cannot avoid the other choice and the real question which is: How do we use a finite resource when demand is increasing and we have environmental promises? The rational choice is to stop the profligate use of petrol and diesel and to change the behaviour of the public and of those involved in transport. Let us lower and enforce speed limits. We must lower our dependency on imported petroleum products. We must adopt alternative fuels – biodiesel, fuel cells, gas and electric cars. Let us realign the Fifth Frame Work Programme in its mid-term towards much more research into and development of those alternatives. Let us put more money in the budget, change the decision on programmes like SAVE and Altener. We do not need a new budget heading. These heading exist. Let us put more money in them. Let us negotiate – but as the European Union – because stability is in the interests not only of oil – importing countries but also of oil – exporting countries. Good luck, Commissioner, when you go to Luxembourg. Mr President, Mrs Stihler is unwell and is unable to be attend. I hope you will forgive me for taking 30 seconds of her time. Mr Fischler said in his presentation that these reforms were based on the same principles as earlier reform. That is so, but they are considerably less ambitious in their scope, even in the Commission's proposals. He also said that the aims were identical, in that one of the aims was sustainability. He presumably means economic, environmental and social sustainability, competitiveness and compatibility with the WTO, since we must not look at agricultural issues in a vacuum. It is just one of the EU's policies and there are others – those concerned with world trade – that must influence our thinking, as must enlargement and its implications. We are talking about the poorest regions, in some cases, of some of the poorer countries in the EU. That is quite clear and presumably explains the less ambitious proposals. The budget may be neutral, but there are differential consequences for farm workers and farm owners, which is one of the problems the PSE Group has with these suggestions. As a whole, we are strong supporters of reform. We are perfectly well aware that the old regime is untenable for very much longer and that decoupling will come, and we are aware of WTO obligations. However, we are also aware of the social consequences and have misgivings that the Commission has not sufficiently borne those consequences in mind. More consideration should be given to the fate of workers who are working for employers in the farming industry. There can be no doubt that Parliament's proposals will not help in the Doha development round. They will – mistakenly, perhaps, but certainly – be seen as non-reform and as a move away from what is expected by the poorest countries in the world. That is absolutely clear and as a member of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, it is something I have to emphasise while supporting the overall PSE position. – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, we agree that after Lisbon we need a knowledge-based economy. I am glad that Mr Prodi emphasised the overriding importance of sustainable development, which has implications well beyond the natural environment. We welcome the acceleration of the energy market, though there is a risk of that aim clashing with the aim of sustainable development. I hope you will pursue rigorously a policy of encouraging renewable energy sources and rational use of energy. As far as trade is concerned, we agree that a new WTO round is desirable, again subject to the constraints of sustainable development. I wish to convey to Mr Prodi our very great disappointment at the lack of involvement by the European Parliament in trade matters, which could have been rectified at Nice, but which was not. I strongly urge you to work on an Interinstitutional Agreement which involves the European Parliament in trade matters. We believe in reform and democratisation of the WTO. We believe the everything but arms move is a good step, although some of us regret the delayed timetable which sends a message of less than complete commitment to the least developed countries in the world. As far as innovation and research are concerned, we look forward to a detailed Sixth Framework Programme. If you present us with very vague proposals, that will certainly delay implementation and lead to concern and disappointment throughout the EU. The European research area is of course important. We look forward to wide publicity for the benchmarking exercises, particularly in the areas of enterprise and innovation. – Madam President, in view of that decision and since Commissioner Liikanen will not be present on Thursday but could be present on Wednesday, I wonder whether it would be possible to bring Mrs Gill's report on European digital content forward from Thursday to Wednesday to fill that slot. I should be grateful if you would agree to that request. – Mr President, in his report Mr Mombaur has certainly given a comprehensive coverage of the implications of the liberalization of these markets. Energy, of course, is not just any good or service. It is very basic and very essential and has to be treated differently from normal goods. The two directives were very carefully calculated to ensure that there would not be huge and sudden job losses – approximately 250,000 jobs have been lost in this sector, with more to come – and secondly to allow those Member States which had invested heavily in, for example, nuclear energy to do some strategic planning and not leave them with too much in the way of stranded costs. For that reason they were not full speed ahead directives. Nevertheless they should have been implemented on time by every Member State and they were not. Those which delayed were wrong, especially those which at the same time took advantage of the opening of markets elsewhere and we have evidence that this also applies to countries outside the European Union. I have said that the job losses were very considerable. There has also been a great deal of upheaval and restructuring and some evidence of the formation of new monopolies, something which must be combated. There has been a diminution in the amount of research and development and that is a shame. There is a lack of harmonization to date and Mr Mombaur is quite right to call for harmonization. I am fairly sceptical about allowing the regulators to do that through the Florence work. The question of public service obligations is mentioned several times in the report. The Socialist Group has put forward an amendment asking for a framework directive ensuring that in sectors like energy services of general interest are protected. I hope that will be supported. Although there are difficulties with the two directives and liberalization, it is part of creating Europe and lower prices do benefit people. However there are environmental implications which we have not taken very seriously. The Lisbon Council asked the Commission to look at the possible need for an acceleration. I do not agree, however, with preaching to Member States and telling them what they should be doing. It is up to them to decide. I am very anxious that renewable energy is supported in a liberalised market. That is not easy to do and it is something the Parliament holds dear. I am very concerned about the threat to combined heat and power in the gas directive. That needs to be rectified very quickly. . – Madam President, I am very pleased to present my recommendation for second reading on the Energy Star agreement. As you will know, in a rather complex procedure, Parliament has already been consulted on the agreement itself. This is now the codecision procedure on the regulation which implements that agreement. I wish to thank the Commission, the Council and my colleagues, in particular the shadow rapporteurs, for their help in steering through this rather complex procedure. I would like to thank in particular the Swedish Presidency, which went out of its way to be helpful. The Council common position takes on board most of the points made by Parliament at first reading. We shall have an earlier review than was expected; we shall have an update on new technological advances in this area of energy efficiency; we shall have a report to Parliament. Furthermore, the United States' authorities are absolutely clear that Parliament is involved in discussions on the Energy Star programme from the Commission's point of view. This has been done through a side letter added to the agreement, at Parliament's request, which meets our wishes for them to know how we operate in the European Union. This clearly is not the only measure which is to be taken in the area of energy efficiency. I understand there is an update to the common position because of the new Eco-Label award scheme. I am prepared, as rapporteur, to accept that slight modification which has been made necessary. Even though I am pleased that it looks as though this agreement is coming into force, I do not want to exaggerate its importance. It is a useful tool, but it is a relatively modest proposal; it is a voluntary scheme based on a United States model. I know many colleagues agree with me that in future we should work as a European Union and have European Community schemes rather than attempting to latch on to schemes developed elsewhere, in the United States for example. Nevertheless, although it is relatively modest, it is welcome. Computer equipment is sold worldwide and the educative, awareness-raising aspects of seeing the Energy Star logo on computers is worthwhile. We know that one of the tasks in increasing energy efficiency is to improve public awareness. It is a small part of what is needed. Everyone in this Chamber knows that energy efficiency is the most important component of energy policy. It is the fifth fuel – coal, gas, renewables, nuclear – the fifth fuel, with a 30% potential, is energy efficiency. If someone from another planet saw us acting as if we had known that, they would think we were stupid. We are not stupid, we are intelligent and that is why intelligent energy – a phrase with which I hope everyone is becoming familiar – and certainly Mr Wijkman, Mr Turmes, Mrs Van der Laan and I are doing our best to make it a very familiar phrase – and energy-intelligent Europe depends on energy efficiency. We look to the Commissioner to bring in a package of measures well beyond Energy Star. They are demand-side management and two important directives: one on household appliances and one on office equipment – not made in the USA. I hope that during this autumn, under the Belgian Presidency, we will see both of those draft directives adopted. We have been very cooperative on the Energy Star programme. There is only one amendment, which could be withdrawn. If the Commissioner is able to give us tonight an appropriate assurance and accept the spirit of that amendment, which asks her to take further action on the withdrawal of inefficient equipment, it is quite possible that we can approve the common position unamended. . – Mr President, I had expected to recommend the House to adopt this draft regulation unamended at second reading. That depended, however, on a statement from the Commissioner last night. Unfortunately, the statement by Mrs de Palacio was insufficient. However, I would now like to ask the Commission again whether it will undertake to bring in measures complementary to this agreement in the first three months of next year. This is the only commitment which we will accept as reasonable, otherwise I will ask the House to vote for the amendment and to invoke the conciliation procedure. I therefore ask the Commission to clarify its position on supplementary measures. – Mr President, I think Members should realise what an excellent negotiator we had in Pascal Lamy. Of those taking part in the discussions, he was far and away the most skilful and appeared to show the most stamina. That is important to recognise. The discussions in Seattle were perhaps more complex than could have been anticipated: they were certainly over-ambitious, and that should have been anticipated. There was a quite absurd concentration of time limits, particularly since some of the time was lost because of extraneous events. There was a hysterical press interest, not in what was happening in the discussions, but in what was happening on the streets, which was largely due to complete clumsiness by the local police. There was a complexity because of the sheer number of participants, not only from the countries concerned, but from NGOs, from lobbyists, from national government delegations and from others. The issues themselves were complex. This was not a game of poker, it was a complex game of chess with completely justifiable but contradictory claims taking the stage. The European Union was, in fact, very well placed. Over the years of our existence we have managed to put in place environmental and social rules alongside trade rules. It can be done in international discussions. It is not easy but it is essential and we are well placed because we have, to a limited extent, managed that. We were well placed because of our links with the ACP countries, although there was an issue over their waiver which clouded the discussions, and because we have always worked well with NGOs. We were well placed in having a large parliamentary delegation. I am pleased that our socialist amendment calling for a parliamentary assembly was taken up world-wide. The issue of agriculture: The United States and other countries refused to understand, even though it is a very simple notion, the multifunctional reasons for our common agricultural policy. They refuse to admit that they subsidise their agriculture in a much less transparent way than we do. As far as environmental issues were concerned, these are not and should not be simply concerns of rich countries, but they were portrayed as such and there is a great deal of work to do in bringing those issues to a State where they are not thought of as protectionism. Mr Lamy says that the biotech working group was fact-finding, but the widespread perception was that it would interfere with the setting-up of the bio-safety protocol and colleagues will say more about that. Animal welfare was perceived by poor countries as a rich person's interest which, to some of them, was almost obscene where we are confronted with starving people. That is something again we will have to work on and similarly with core labour standards. It is important that the WTO is restored in a reformed way. The alternative is the United States making bilateral agreements from a position of strength with the poorer countries of the world. That is not what we want. We, in the Parliament, must follow this issue along with Mr Lamy and other Commissioners until we get something that is appropriate to the age which we are moving into. . The Fiori report, even in its amended form, is a muddled and unhelpful contribution to the public discussion on stem cell research and other issues arising from developments in medical research. Decisions of this nature are largely a matter for Member States and the European Parliament must respect subsidiarity. The UK, for example, has quite rightly conducted its own debate on stem cell research and come to the conclusion that a tightly regulated research programme can eventually bring benefits to sufferers of highly disabling and painful conditions. The UK has successfully transposed the patenting directive, as all Member States should have done, and the distinction between inventions and discoveries is quite clearly understood. No review or attempt to change the directive is appropriate. For these reasons Members of the EPLP have voted against the Fiori report. Mr President, we all realise that both Commissioner Lamy and Commissioner Fischler will need to stay within their mandate. Within that mandate are included the Singapore issues and, in particular, investment. Commissioner Lamy, you know from the last time we discussed this in this Chamber that the PSE Group feels it is quite inappropriate to pursue, of the Singapore issues, investment in particular. Do you feel that the mood amongst developing countries is such that we risk causing great disruption to the discussions if we insist, against their will, on pursuing the question of investment? Frankly, in our opinion, this is not the time. I would be pleased to hear whether you accept that we ought to drop the push for investment to be included. . – Mr President, as Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel has said, research has consistently been identified as the key to improving economic growth, creating new jobs, a cleaner environment and better health. How utterly astonishing, then, that every country in the world and every Member State of the European Union wastes half of its most valuable resource, that is, the brain power of its citizens. It wastes that brain power because it fails to engage women in the task of science adequately. Women are not encouraged at school level, they face discrimination in their careers, and this is something which we have to tackle in the European Research Area. I congratulate Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, the rapporteur, and Commissioner Busquin, both of whom have realised the importance of this gap. I am particularly pleased that Commissioner Busquin has upgraded the work of his directorate-general in this matter to the status of a unit, that he is ensuring that statistics are being kept, and that networks which help and encourage women scientists are being supported by the European Union. This must be a key part of the European Research Area. We need, as the phrase goes, research by women, for women – so that the gender implications of the research we undertake are examined – and about women. It is important that the socio-economic aspects of the research programme concentrate on gender matters. Why is it that almost every country in the world wastes the brains of half its population by not encouraging them? I thank Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel for her support of the Committee on Women's Rights' opinion and look forward to the gender perspective being an important aspect of the European Research Area. – Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, like others, I wear a badge which symbolises trade with justice. Open trade – yes, but only with rules. Our national and European interests, yes of course, but also the interests of the developing world – your approach, Commissioner, and ours. I am going to concentrate on two frankly difficult areas – TRIPS and the environmental aspects of trade which you have already mentioned. Firstly, TRIPS: what we now have in the agreement is not clear enough or good enough. Intellectual property rights are important in world trade, but we thought that the 25.5 million HIV positive people in sub-Saharan Africa could have access to cheap drugs under TRIPS. Let us ensure that this is made more explicit after Doha. Ironically, the United States, the world's most fierce defender of intellectual property rights is now faced with the dilemma of needing huge supplies of antibiotics to combat anthrax. Attitudes may change with new circumstances – in any case, they have to. Secondly, environmental standards. The EU faces charges of protectionism. Commissioner, you know that this is not the case, that we are ready to help developing countries in any way necessary as we are helping applicant countries, that we have science on our side and that we will not abandon our hard-won progress – why should we? Multilateral environment agreements cannot be discarded in the name of free trade and the precautionary principle must be explicitly included in WTO rules. This is a deal-breaker for us. We in the EU know more than any other part of the world how untrammelled free trade can be controlled through multilateral rule-making to the benefit of our citizens. Our achievements in the EU are relevant elsewhere, and we should defend them – your task Commissioner. I know you will be tough on our behalf. I hope you will be tough too on core labour standards. Seattle did not work – Doha can if it is fair and if there is a balance of trade and justice. Good luck Commissioner. – Mr President, I congratulate Mr Katiforis and Commissioner Solbes, both of whom have displayed a broader than usual understanding of what is necessary for a successful economy. We must take advantage of the fact that we are in the European Union to do things collectively. I wish to concentrate on research and development. I regret that the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy did not draw up an opinion on Mr Katiforis’s report – it should have done. Compared to the US and Japan, we are woefully lacking in a proper research strategy in almost all Member States except Finland, Sweden and the Republic of Ireland – countries shown in the Commission paper to have had unusual success. We need scientists in order to have research and development. Let us stop young people choosing to do other things. Let us encourage women. Let us ensure that competence in widely-used languages is increased. Above all, let us look at the salaries paid to scientists and technologists. That is what makes them choose other careers. Of course, we need infrastructure in science facilities and communications. We need a strategy. Jacques Delors spelt it out in his White Paper, so we do not need to reinvent his thoughts. However, the big difference between us and the successful economies of the world – the US in particular – is that they spend  money on investment in science, and it pays off. Commissioner Busquin’s communication on the European research area is very good. However, what is important is the next stage: transferring that knowledge into goods and products and processes which can be sold. Let us be innovative in the European Union. Let us start by bringing the innovation unit back from Luxembourg to Brussels, where it can use its skills working with other departments of the Commission. That would be a not very revolutionary but a sensible thing to do. – Thank you, Commissioner. I can see that you are tackling the task of bringing in the framework between 2002 and 2006 in a very efficient and workmanlike way. You say that you intend to concentrate on projects where there is considerable European added value and that you will therefore be applying criteria. Could you tell us a little bit more about what those criteria might be? Could you also say how you envisage the role of the Joint Research Centre in undertaking an evaluation of technological foresight programmes which might indicate to us the sorts of areas where this European added value might be most useful? – Mr President, I voted against this report, not because I do not support the recommendations on the way forward in the event of another unfortunate outbreak of foot and mouth disease, but because of the basic inaccuracies in the preamble. I prefer to vote for fact and not fiction and, because certain people wish to obscure the truth with political fiction, I have voted against. It has been claimed that over 10 million animals were slaughtered during the foot and mouth outbreak but owners have only claimed compensation for 6.5 million. Farmers, I know, are not slow in coming forward. There is no evidence of breaches in animal welfare legislation. If there was, surely there would have been prosecutions, since animal rights groups within the UK are amongst the most active in the world. Finally, the report hints at breaches in environmental legislation due to such events as the burning of dead carcasses. The Environmental Agency within the UK carried out an investigation of the procedure used in the foot and mouth outbreak and concluded that there had been no breaches. The report is, therefore, unfortunately basically flawed. – Madam President, I did not see the incident with regard to the handicapped or disabled people going into the stadium yesterday, or the supposed fracas with the Italian journalists. However, I was in Rotterdam all day yesterday, from early morning until late last night and I was at the final. I pass on my praise to the French, Italian, Dutch and many other fans who travelled from all over Europe to watch that final. I also pass on my praise to the Dutch police for the way they conducted themselves, and to the people of Rotterdam. It was an excellent day out in Rotterdam. It was one of the best football matches I have ever attended. The atmosphere was anything but hostile. It was one of the best atmospheres I have experienced at a cup final. On the point that Mr Helmer raised, can he join with me in congratulating Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II on supporting the euro? . The EPLP is concerned about a number of points in the report as it currently stands: - On tax we are of the view that Member States should be allowed to level tax at national rates. On salaries the wise persons' report produced a formula that was acceptable to the majority of Member States and MEPs and we see no reason for the unjustified change to a salary which is 50% of that of a European Court Judge. On expenses we firmly believe that the European Parliament has an opportunity to rectify the longstanding anomalies by introducing a system of travel at cost. The report's stance on immunities would require changes to primary law and we feel that this is not the appropriate report in which this should be included. Finally, on the question of the implementation date, the EPLP cannot accept under any circumstances a possible post 2004 implementation date. The EPLP wants to go into the 2004 election campaign with this issue clearly resolved. As the European Parliament has just voted for a date beyond that period we cannot support the final vote on this report. – Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all colleagues who have worked on this report for keeping this issue in the spotlight. The rapporteur told you a story about a woman called Margot Cameron who came to see me eight years ago. She wandered in, nobody would listen to her, and we sat down and looked at the problem she had and started campaigning. It is a success story, because here we are today looking at legislation that we are putting through this Parliament, which is great. I would like to tell you another story, which does not have such a happy ending. As I have said, this all happened eight years ago when Margot Cameron came to see me. We started campaigning and raised the issue at national level and finally took it to European level. By that time we had contacted groups throughout Europe and brought the issue to the Petitions Committee in 1998, though looking around this room and I do not see anybody who was at that Committee. I remember going to that Committee and arguing, along with the women, for that petition. However, I also remember the Commission saying: 'sorry guv, nothing to do with us – it is a Member State issue'. That delay set us back years. It was 2001 before we got any satisfaction out of the Commission. In that period 28 000 further operations were carried out in the UK alone. It is estimated that 20 000 of those implants have either leaked or ruptured during that period. What happened as a result of that delay? We let down not only the women who had signed that petition, but also a lot of women who had gone down the road of getting implants. This shows that we have to address these issues and problems more speedily when they arise and not let women suffer in the way they have in the past. Many Member States have banned trilucent implants and have banned saline implants. We have got to look in the future at a ban on silicone implants. Why? Because they affect people's health. If it were men getting the implants, there would be a ban tomorrow, but that is not happening because men are not getting them. I would like to make one final point. This report is entitled 'breast implants', but it is also possible to get silicone implants for other parts of the body, and they cause the same damage. .The EPLP has voted today for the removal of barriers preventing a Members' Statute. It has also voted today for negotiations to commence on the appropriate level of remuneration for MEPs with Council. The basis for this should be the study carried out by the Wise Persons Group. Another aspect which we support is national taxation. All along we have supported the concept that MEPs should be treated no differently in the area of taxation from other residents in their Member States. Importantly we are also finishing today the reform of the whole issue of expenses. For too long the expenses issue has dogged the Parliament, and we now have the opportunity to put this to rest. – Mr President, when we embarked on this exercise all of us knew that the reform of the Commission was never going to be easy, it was never going to be smooth and it was never going to be quick, because we had 40 years of entrenched views and in trying to change that we were always going to have to overcome some problems. Despite these obstacles, I have to say, having listened to the Commissioner, we have congratulate him on the progress that he has made so far and we also have to congratulate the staff trade union for having gone into negotiation and made headway in a number of areas of reform. It is important that this question is down here because I would like to touch on a couple of points that some of my colleagues have raised. Mr Harbour – rightly so – raised the question of timing. Timing is important because, if you get the timing wrong, it impacts on the morale of staff and once the morale of staff starts to fall then that has an impact on career improvements, advancement, etc., and once that starts – they do not move forward. All these points go together. I was glad that Mr Harbour touched on the question of the linear career structure, it is a big issue and one that we have to face up to as the Commissioner is well aware. I would add that I agree that whistle-blowing is now in the public knowledge. However, whistle-blowing has a different ramification in the west of Scotland: it tends to indicates flutes and that does not go down too well in my part of the world. I slightly disagree with my colleague Mrs Guy-Quint. On the question of consultation: we have been consulted at every opportunity. She did argue again for a more protracted period of reform, but as we said, if we spin it out longer and longer it impacts upon the morale of the staff and that impacts on the performance of the staff. We have to keep this as short as possible. The whole question of retirement: I was the person responsible for piloting the question of the retirement package through Parliament and it is a wonderful package. I would love to be offered the same. Can I say to the Commissioner, we heard quite clearly about the breaking of the Heading 5 ceiling. We realise that it is not in the domain of the Commission and maybe it is high time that some of us were to look at some of the other institutions and how they were getting on with on with that. In conclusion, we have made significant progress. It is important that we are kept informed of the progress. I am glad to hear what the Commissioner said, because only by that and by monitoring what is happening can we have an impact. If obstacles do occur, we can then start trying to tackle them, here and in the other institutions as well. . – Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr Menrad and Mr Mayer on their reports. I would also like to back up what Mr Mayer said about the legal base. He is quite right. We have had people playing fast and loose on the whole question of the legal base. We started off with Article 95 as legal base and we have moved on to Article 308 because it suited certain people. That is wrong and Parliament is right to say that at some future date we should be challenging this in court. Concerning the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market on Mr Menrad's report on the information and consultation of workers, I take the two examples of Corus and BMW Rover. The first thing workers knew about the situation they were facing was when they were driving into work and they heard it on the radio. In this day and age that is totally intolerable. Workers should be informed at the very start about the situation pertaining to their jobs because they are part and parcel of that company. I should know. I remember many years ago I turned up at my place of work to find that the gates of the factory were locked and all of us were standing outside. We were told by someone who was sent out that we had all been made redundant. I remember that quite clearly because the people who owned the factory still lived in big houses, still drove big cars and still went on holidays. I was a worker in the factory and nine months later I had not received any redundancy money: all I got was my back pay. That is the sort of situation workers should not be faced with ever again. That is why I congratulate Mr Menrad on taking this small step on the information and meaningful consultation of workers because it is a step in the right direction. It is not perfect. It will come back and we will improve it. However, it is a step in the right direction and I support it. .  Mr President, I should like to thank all those who have been involved and helped me shape this report. The report is somewhat like the curate's egg – it is good in parts and not so good in parts; in fact, it is lousy in some parts. I hope that tomorrow we will be able to rectify the bad bits and remove them. First, I want to concentrate on one or two of the good bits. The report recognises that the Solvit project is up and running. It recognises that there is a need for a consistent and correct application of the CE mark. It supports the work of the Competitiveness Council. It recognises that the internal market is about creating more and better jobs; it is about creating wealth, not just for businesses; and it is about social cohesion. It also recognises the benchmarking of existing liberalised services, based on a broad set of criteria, some of which are social. There is also the consultation with our social partners. It also encourages Member States' parliaments to address the whole problem of gold plating. These are the good bits in this report. Unfortunately they are only the icing on the cake. Once we get into the cake we find the bad bits. That is where this report goes wrong. Reading the Commission's document, step-by-step, there is a clear agenda. The Commission argues that many of the Member State economies are in a downturn at the moment and that in order to give them a boost and to help those flagging economies we must look at more structural reform. What does it mean by structural reform? You read on and it starts talking about liberalising more of our public services. It argues that because the electricity and gas sectors are smaller than the water sector and have been liberalised, we should liberalise the water sector. Taking that argument even further, in Europe our health and education sectors are bigger than the water sector is today. If you go down the road of liberalising our water sector then you go down the road of liberalising our health and education sectors. That is not what I am about. I have looked at this report. This is not what Europe is about. We have had liberalisation of certain industries in Europe. I only need to look at British Rail to see what a disaster that has been. Before we go down the road of further liberalisation of any services we have to take stock of what has happened so far. We have talked about the Lisbon agenda. That features strongly in the internal market report from the Commission. However, when we look at the Lisbon agenda, what comes up time and time again is the economic criteria. There is another side to the Lisbon agenda – a social side. That never gets mentioned these days. We always forget about workers' rights when we talk about the Lisbon agenda. Instead, it is market, market, market. It is high time that we moved away from that. I believe that the internal market is about workers; it is about workers' rights; it is about health and safety; it is about living conditions; it is about elderly people; it is about young people; it is about disabled people; it is about employment and unemployment; it is about the training of young, old and unemployed people. It is not only about profit for major companies. Tomorrow we will vote on one of the most important issues that faces European citizens: whether we give the green light to the Commission to go down the road of looking at the liberalisation of our water sector. I do not believe that water is an internal market issue. I do not think that it should be in this report, but it is. I hope that we will remove that tomorrow. Our citizens do not want a liberalised water sector. Europe has a soul. If we sell out our social agenda, which is part of the internal market agenda, part of the Lisbon agenda, then we are lost forever. We cannot let down our citizens. Tomorrow we must support all the amendments that reject further liberalisation. – Mr President, on behalf of my group I should like to say I was disappointed to see that Amendment 6 from the Committee went through. This whole directive was really about cross-border legal aid. To take the whole cross-border element out, and to try and look at the whole question of harmonising legal aid throughout the European Union, is – in my opinion and that of my Group – bound to lead to one hell of a muddle. If we had stuck to the Liberal amendment and had concentrated solely on cross-border legal aid cases, then I think we could have had a workable document in front of us today. Unfortunately we do not. However, that being said, we did ultimately vote for the directive. There are other parts in it which we feel we can support, and we leave the Council of Ministers, hopefully, to sort out the bits that unfortunately went through. . – The voting on this report reflects the EPLP's opposition to incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the Treaty and the section of the report restricting unanimity in the Council to constitutional issues. The EPLP has consistently not supported incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights as rights are covered by national legislation and the European Convention on Human Rights. Inclusion of new text into the Treaties is likely to create legal confusion. The restriction of unanimity in the Council to constitutional issues would exclude key issues such as taxation and social security which, we believe, should remain the responsibility of Member States. The resolution contains good sections on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Middle East and the EPLP supports the resolution overall. .– The European Parliamentary Labour Party supports the thrust of the Weiler report on the employment guidelines for 2002. It also has a lot of sympathy for the amendments submitted by Mr Bushill-Matthews but feels that the Weiler report is not the appropriate report for such amendments. – Mr President, this report is all about bringing respect back to this House. We should not forget that this is only the halfway stage, because when this report leaves here it has to be approved by the Council. The principle behind this report is good: equal pay for equal work. However, I have to ask whether we are all equal. According to some of the amendments tabled, I do not think we are. One of the amendments talks about the considerable economic differences which exist between the existing Member States and the accession countries. Is it not the case that there are considerable economic differences even within the 15 Member States? So when we set out the principle of equal pay for equal work, the 10 accession countries do not fit into that principle. So we have got this wrong. The big issue for me is the whole question of the expenses. I congratulate the working group on coming up with a formula. Transparency in expenses is essential. We must stick to the principle of travel at cost. That is an issue which is in our hands and we can approve it without going to the Council. Let us not squander it and let us not waste it. – Mr President, to pick up on the points that Mrs Lucas has raised, I support the sentiments which she has outlined. However, I would ask if she could prevail upon her colleagues to desist from claiming some sort of parliamentary immunity every time she gets arrested at Faslane. Long before Mrs Lucas became involved, I had been involved in Faslane for many years and have been arrested there. I have never once called for parliamentary immunity. I had my day in court and I had my trial. I will not go down the road to parliamentary immunity because I want my day in court and I want to make my point and not hide behind some smokescreen. – Mr President, I wish to raise once again the point I raised on Monday and again yesterday with regard to Mr Helmer's comments in this House. Can I say that I am surprised that on two occasions now I have asked Mr Helmer to comment on the item about the Queen of the United Kingdom supporting the euro, and so far he has failed to do. Can I say to this House that I understand this must be the first time that Mr Helmer has been speechless. – Mr President, on behalf of my group, the European Parliamentary Labour Party, I should like to say that the vote today reflects our wish to advance beyond the moratorium and establish genuine traceability. Consumers want to know the origins of what they eat and drink, where this can be established and tested. We need effective proposals to establish the lowest thresholds which can be measured and better definition of what can be properly described as GM free, rather than the ambiguous non-GM. We voted for the approvable threshold of 0.5%, above which the product must be GM labelled. But below that it cannot be guaranteed GM free. We need to create a climate in which labelling is an encouragement to move further to develop real GM-free areas of cultivation and production and not the pretence that we have delivered in this proposal. . The Labour Members of the Socialist Group welcome the Treaty of Nice which opens the way to enlargement of the European Union, an objective which all Member States of the Union have sought, as have successive British governments. The idea that the Treaty of Nice makes the European Union a centralised superstate is nonsense and was rightly dismissed as ridiculous in the debate yesterday. This resolution acknowledges that the last remaining institutional obstacles to enlargement have been removed and we welcome that. It also looks at the need for further reform, to which Labour is committed in order to make the European Union more effective, more transparent and more accountable. Nonetheless, the resolution contains some criticisms of the Treaty of Nice which are unfounded and also contains some proposals for the future which pre-empt the debate on the future of Europe due to take place over the coming years. Some of these proposals are premature and some are unlikely ever to be desirable; for this reason, the Labour Members decided to abstain on this text. – Mr President, on the point that Mr Callanan raised a couple of moments ago, I suggest that instead of raising the matter with you he should raise it with the Queen of the United Kingdom as she seems to have an opinion on most European issues these days. Mr President, I should first of all like to thank the rapporteur. I should also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs because they have worked very hard and closely with the rapporteur in trying to come to a compromise on this directive. I should like to pick up on a couple of points. First of all, the 'polluter pays' principle has been mentioned a few times tonight. We already have 'polluter-pays' legislation. In the past the polluter has only paid a fine, but we have had a fundamental shift and now the polluter pays to clear up the damage that he or she has created. That is a fundamental shift in legislation. If we are to enact that then we have to look at the financial security systems behind it. That is why I believe mandatory financial security is important. It is a key point here. I accept the point that Mrs Niebler and the Commissioner made that the market is not yet developed. That is why, in a number of amendments, we ask the Commission to study the whole market and ensure that when we finally bring in a mandatory system at a later date, the whole area is covered. I should like to add that we have also gauged the points of view of the Member States and given them responsibility for defining low-risk activities, i.e. taking them out. That is a major step forwards for businesses of all shapes and sizes. With regard to the Commissioner's point on Member State responsibility, I realise that he had difficulties over the last few months negotiating with the Council on this point and that it has not been easy. However, we have to come to a situation where if somebody defaults, or an operator goes into insolvency and does not have this insurance, somebody has to clean up. Who is it going to be? It cannot fall on the local authorities; it has to fall on a Member State and we cannot allow Member States to just walk away from it and allow pollution to continue to grow. Therefore the Member States have a responsibility. Briefly, on the mitigating circumstances, I am glad to see that the Commissioner is accepting Amendments Nos 40 and 61. I hope they go through. And I am glad to see the mitigating circumstances taken into account, along with permit defences. – Mr President, I should like to add my congratulations to the rapporteur for the work he has done on this report. I always find it somewhat amazing that on this graveyard shift on a Wednesday night, which Mr Harbour and I have shared on many occasions, we have ended up discussing perhaps one of the most important pieces of legislation that the European Union has passed, but the way this Parliament operates, that tends to be the way of things. It is just over ten years now since the internal market came into operation. In that time, vast strides have been made towards the completion of the market. That said, however, there is still a long way to go. There are still a number of barriers - barriers to trade. We look at the different tax regimes in the Member States, whether it be indirect taxation or direct taxation - all are used as barriers to trade. We look at different employment legislation in Member States - this too is used as a barrier to trade. We look at our own failure to decide upon a Community patent - again that is a barrier to trade, but the solution there is in our own hands. However, it is not only the free movement of goods that we should be concerned about. It is also about the free movement of workers, the free movement of labour. At the moment within the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market we are discussing the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. The sooner that is sorted out, the sooner another barrier will be removed. In today's climate, however, there is another barrier. It is a barrier of fear and suspicion which has developed since 11 September, but was probably there beforehand. That is a barrier restricting the free movement of workers. We cannot allow ourselves to become a fortress Europe by setting up internal walls. I was interested to hear what the Commissioner had to say. The onus is on him, however, to take a long hard look at every Member State to see where these countries, while proclaiming the benefits of the internal market, are at the same time blocking its completion by using internal rules to flout it. Most of the time this is for short-term political gain. We have an opportunity to bring about the completion of the internal market. Commissioner, you challenged this Parliament to come up with a hard-hitting report which you have now got. We challenge you to finish the job – and you have our support. – Mr President, over seven years ago a woman walked into my office in Glasgow. She had been turned away by a wide variety of authorities – elected members and health authorities. Nobody would listen to her. They treated her somewhat as an eccentric. I sat down with her and over a period of about three-and-half hours she convinced me that there was a problem with the whole question of silicone and silicone implants. The result of that conversation, over seven years ago, is that I am standing here tonight talking about it – not on behalf of Mr Miller, but on behalf of that woman and the hundreds of thousands of other women who have since joined together in a vast network, not just in Europe but throughout the world, to petition against the use of unsafe silicone implants. It is a testament to the citizens of Europe that they can petition this Parliament and actually get heard. This is the first time that I can remember an ordinary citizen raising an issue which has reached the floor of this Parliament. I congratulate Parliament and the Petitions Committee. As I said, this was not only down to Mr Miller, though I have pursued it through Parliament. This has been down to the women themselves who have bravely fought against scorn and ridicule from a variety of sources and who have continued fighting their campaign against silicone implants. That campaign has continued for years and they are still fighting. Many of them believe that there should be a complete ban. However, most of them recognise that at the moment there is not enough evidence to ban silicone implants so they are happy to settle, at this point in time, for stronger rules and regulations governing this whole question. Regarding a couple of points in the report, I am glad to see the call for a ban on implants anyone under the age of 18 for cosmetic purposes. When we talk about the quality of the implants we also have to talk about the safety of the implants. I cannot stress that too strongly. We talk about the information to prospective clients undergoing this operation. That information has to be available from independent sources. It is not good enough for that information to come from the surgeon carrying out the operation. We also talk about registration. We have to know the number of operations taking place. We have to know the clinics that are taking these people in. We have to know what surgeons are carrying them out. Until we do so we will not fully realise the scale of this problem. This is a tribute to Parliament, but moreover, this is a tribute to the thousands of women who have been fighting for years. It has finally been recognised that there is a problem. – Mr President, there is a mystery. What happened to the Postal Services Directive that was passed on 15 December 1997? There has been a deafening silence from the Commission during the period between then and now. I am sorry it is Commissioner Monti who is here today. I am very fond of him. He is one of the more diligent and hard working commissioners. It is a pity I cannot say the same for some of his other colleagues. There has, over this period, been no real progress on the Postal Services Directive. Commissioner Monti stated that part of the reason for this was the organisation and reallocation of duties. That has only happened recently. For over a year the old Commission could have done some work on this. We really have not progressed very far. However, since Commissioner Monti is here, I would like him to take a message back to Commissioner Bolkestein telling him what the Postal Services Directive was about. It was about gradual liberalisation; it was about a guaranteed universal service at an affordable price; it was about direct mail and cross-border mail remaining in the reserved sector. These issues were fundamental in that report and they should be fundamental in any forthcoming directive. The postal service is not just for Christmas. It is for life. In the area in Scotland I come from it is much more than just a postal service. It is about keeping communities together. The postal service is also the bus service. The postal service is also the social service. The postal service is also the doctor. If we allow the postal services to drift into complete privatisation then we will lose all that and many of our local communities – we were voting earlier on tourism – will lose their tourist trade. We will cut them off. The postal services are important. That message must be taken back from here today. The Commission must listen to it. .– On behalf of the EPLP I would like to indicate our support for the general principle of 'the polluter restores'. This is a fundamental shift in the direction of environmental policy in the EU. No longer should the public bear the burden of clean-up costs when often the polluter has walked away. The EPLP does not, however, support the inclusion of GMOs in this directive as, firstly, we believe it is the wrong directive and, secondly, there is existing legislation on this topic and this could give rise to confusion among potential operators as to which legislation is applicable. . – Madam President, I welcome everybody here again tonight. I see a good number of familiar faces. I wish to pay tribute to my shadow rapporteur, Mr Harbour, who again is attending a late-night sitting with me. We probably spend more nights together than we do with our respective wives. I should also like to pay tribute to a number of people who have worked on this report, not just within the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market but also within the Commission and the Council. It was not a difficult conciliation but it was successful and I was very pleased at the outcome. I should also like to give the thanks of probably about a third of the population of the European Union to Parliament, for I am anticipating that the vote tomorrow will go the right way. There are something like 35 million registered disabled people within the European Union; we have 120 million elderly people. The two groups are obviously not mutually exclusive, but they make up about a third of the population of the European Union. The outcome of tomorrow's vote will very largely decide what their quality of life in the future will be. For years now people with disabilities have not been able to get around the towns and cities of the European Union as they should; they have been trapped for too long in their own houses. If this directive is adopted tomorrow, it will open up that door. It will be one small step towards freeing a lot of people who, as I said earlier, have been trapped. I would like to convey their thanks to Parliament. I realise that some of my colleagues on the right of this House have had difficulties with this directive, mainly because of its technical nature. I fully understand and appreciate that. However, I would ask them at this late stage to consider what we are doing, because if this directive is adopted tomorrow, it is something that everybody in Parliament could be proud of, because we would be improving the lives of the citizens of the European Union. For once we would be making a difference. Too often we stand up in this Chamber and talk about various great plans, schemes and motions, etc. and they do not impact on people's lives. Here is a small thing that does impact on the lives of the European citizen and it is something we should all be proud of. I understand my colleagues on the right will be abstaining tomorrow. That is unfortunate but it is, at least, an improvement on voting against in the second reading. I would ask them, however, to look at this again and cast their votes in favour, because all along I have tried to leave out the technicalities and have concentrated purely on the policy and philosophy of getting people with disabilities mobile again. That is an aim and objective I think we would all agree with. In that respect, I have really not much more to say, because this has been discussed at length. The Commissioner is well aware of the contents of the report and probably could recite them as well as I could. Finally, I should like to thank very much all those who have helped draft this report and who tomorrow will help to adopt it. – Mr President, following up on Mr Helmer's point on the Irish Referendum, you may recall another event last week, in the UK. Mr Helmer's party campaigned on the principle of keeping the pound against the euro. Now we all know that the British people soundly rejected his party on that policy. Will he now join me in voting to go with the euro? – Mr President, my name has been added to Amendment No 23. I did not sign that amendment and do not support it. I shall therefore vote against it. . – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for the assistance I have received from him and his staff. I would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, especially Mr Harbour, whom I again have had the privilege of working with; we work well together. As many Members will realise, this is the second phase in the reform of the Commission, a reform which this whole House has endorsed previously. If we believe in the reform process, we must endorse this second phase, which concerns the introduction, on a one-off basis, of the early retirement scheme for officials within the Commission. A proper retirement scheme will apply at a later date, but this particular one is on a one-off basis. If we believe in enlargement to accommodate the officials from accession countries, we must reduce the number of existing officials and do so within the existing budget. Also, if we believe in a modern, responsive, technically competent Commission, then we must look to bring in new blood to replace some of those officials who have not adapted or coped with the new technology. All this adds up to some people taking early retirement and to allowing new people and new blood in. But it also adds up to some of us within this House having to take decisions, which previously were not palatable. We have, however, to live in the real world and therefore we must take those decisions. Turning now to the amendments, that I will be supporting all the amendments except for two submitted by Mr Ferber. Initially I was reluctant to put my name to some of the amendments, as I was concerned that the inclusion of the other institutions might delay the implementation of the early retirement scheme. However, my fears have proved unfounded and I am hopeful that the scheme will be implemented in the second half of this year. It will also allow the other institutions to go ahead with implementing their own scheme. Turning to the two amendments submitted by Mr Ferber, first of all they have come in rather late in the day. Secondly, they were never raised or discussed within the committee. Apart from all that, I see these amendments as being submitted by a mean, narrow-minded individual who wants to put a spanner in the works. This is the only way I can really describe it. I cannot accept such a petty attempt to derail this whole process and I hope Parliament cannot accept such a petty attempt to derail the reform process of the Commission. Therefore I would ask the House to support this report as it stands. – I thank the Commissioner for his answer. I especially liked what he said about there being no room for compromises. Is the EU position absolutely fixed, with no likelihood of it being altered in the near future? I should also like to raise the point about international funding for decommissioning. Is that to come from the Commission's own budget? What happens if there is insufficient money for that decommissioning? The European Parliamentary Labour Party supports the proposal to lay down clear and transparent guidelines for the operation of European political parties and to regulate their finances. European political parties already exist and obtain public funds via their political groups in the European Parliament. It is therefore important that we regulate on this. The new rules would make the system more visible, more open, more transparent and above that fairer. Democracy requires parties to provide choice to the electorate and to articulate the views of voters. At European level, they remind us that, on most policy issues our differences of view are not between Member States but between different philosophies and political viewpoints that exist within all Member States. . I abstained on Amendment No 2 submitted in the name of Mr Bushill-Matthews which called for the special needs of SMEs to be recognised when implementing Health and Safety legislation. I have every sympathy with this desire but the amendment is superfluous as Article 137(2) of the Treaty clearly states that "directives in the social field including Health and Safety shall avoid imposing administrative, financial and legal constraints in a way which would hold back the creation and development of SMEs." I believe therefore that the sentiments expressed in the amendment are already covered and it is unnecessary to repeat this in the report. Mr President, today we have a chance to remove the barriers which have held back meaningful discussion on the whole question of the Statute of Members. If we can make progress on the Statute, then we can tackle the thorny question of our own expenses. Because of the covert way in which we MEPs are paid expenses, we have left ourselves wide open to criticism. The Statute and the reform of the expenses are inextricably linked; they go hand in hand, as Mr Rothley clearly pointed out. Therefore, while we are asking the Council to make progress on the Statute, I am asking Parliament to make progress on reform of the expenses scheme because, if we bring in a system that is clear, unambiguous and fair as regards our expenses, then we can face the electorate with confidence again next June. – Mr President, on a point of order on the same issue, there is a distinctly unpleasant odour permeating this building, not just in this Chamber, but outside as well. Last month the Quaestors told us that the reason for this smell then was that an animal had died in one of the drains. Are we expected to accept the same excuse this month? It is not acceptable. We should not be asked to work under these conditions. Staff should not be asked to work under these conditions. It is high time something was done. – Mr President, I did not want to speak until the vote on the second part had been taken. I would like to point out that in the second part there is a technical error in the English version. The speed should be 0.15 metres per second, whereas in the English text gives it as 0.015 metres per second. The former is correct. – Mr President, can I start off by acknowledging Mr Harbour and the work he has put in to his report. Like Mr Van Hulten I commend the way he worked with other people and was prepared to take on ideas and submissions from other political groups. At the same time I thank the Commission and its staff for their support and assistance. The Harbour report is really only the broad framework, it is basically the bones. There is still a lot to be done, and I believe that Parliament cannot rest on its laurels. We have already heard that the Commissioner earlier today launched a series of papers on individual aspects of the report. Parliament, I understand, will not officially be considering these. This is a mistake. For what happens in staff reform in the Commission will ultimately have repercussions for the Parliament and we should not forget that. I would like to pick up on the some 26 amendments which have been made to the Harbour report. As you would expect we are supporting Amendments Nos 1 to 6, submitted by the PSE. We shall however be withdrawing Amendment No 6 and asking for a split vote on the latter part of Amendment No 15 as we do not believe the current system within the ECB lends itself to this situation. We would ask that Amendments Nos 20 and 23 be taken as additions, as in Paragraph 10 it would be utter folly to delete the involvement in drawing up the job goals and the personnel development role of the appraisal system. Amendment No 23 looks like it was an afterthought and while we are not against it, it should not replace the existing Paragraph 22. We are supporting Amendments Nos 13, 14, 16 and 9 submitted by the PPE. We are opposing the rest of the amendments as they either add nothing to the report or basically take us off into flights of fantasy. I would like to say something quickly about change. Change is never easy. Many people are resistant to change because of the fear of taking that step into the unknown. Can I say that as someone who has been an employee of an organisation which downsized without any consultation with the existing staff, I envy the Commission staff. Can I also say as someone who has been of another organisation who went through a downsizing and was made redundant, I am more than envious of the Commission staff and the way they are working and the Commissioner working with them. It is not easy being made redundant. I wish I had been offered the chance of retraining for another job within that organisation. . The British Labour Members have voted in favour of the Sylla report, which serves a valuable purpose. All Member States must be strong and confident enough to accept criticism. This does not automatically mean that every criticism should be accepted as valid. We reject the rapporteur's assertion that the detention powers in the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 are being used improperly. Where we are dealing with potential threats to national security exceptional measures are sometimes necessary. Tough safeguards ensure that these detention powers are not abused. The decision to detain individuals is made on the basis of detailed and compelling evidence. Only 15 Foreign Nationals have so far been detained under this Act. Detainees are free to leave the UK at any time to return to their country of origin, and have a right of appeal against the decision. The UK Government agrees that the detention of the children of asylum seekers should be avoided and is seeking workable solutions to prevent this situation. As regards the right to a fair trial, the vast majority of decided ECHR cases concern events occurring prior to the enactment of the Human Rights Act. Individuals are now able to enforce their ECHR rights directly in UK courts. – Mr President, I also add my thanks to Mr Wieland, the rapporteur. He has done a long and hard job on this. If he, as a lawyer, and Mr Harbour, as an engineer, found it difficult to understand this, can you please have some sympathy for myself as a milkman – I found it even harder. There are a couple of areas I would like to touch upon. I would like to add an oral amendment tomorrow to Amendment No 14(2), because while we put in "seagoing vessels", I was remiss not to mention "inland waterway vessels". That has been pointed out to me and I have raised it with the rapporteur, who has agreed to its insertion through an oral amendment, which I hope everyone will support. I turn now to the point Mr Harbour raised about lift platforms. It might not be the most riveting of subjects but it is an important point, because it helps and assists thousands of people with disabilities throughout Europe. I should like to point out that there is a mistake in the English version. The speed mentioned in the English version is "0.015 metres per second". That should read "0.15 metres per second". If the speed were to be reduced by a tenth, people would be dead by the time they reached the other end. Lift platforms are slow enough, let us not make them any slower. I will not criticise the Commission in this instance because it was not the Commission that introduced the technicalities which would have made the lift platforms inoperable in this directive. That came during the discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. I lay no blame on the Commission. I thank the rapporteur once again for accepting the amendments tabled by Mr Harbour and myself and which we have worked on for a long period of time. This is important, as I indicated, to thousands of people. Those are the two main areas which I have identified as being pertinent and relevant. They are still being discussed in the Council. There seems to be a blockage there and I hope that is resolved fairly quickly, because the whole question of lifts and lift platforms is important to a large number of people. We do not want to let them down. Please get this resolved as quickly as possible. – Mr President, I rise to give my voice to this injustice that we have heard about, an injustice, as we have also heard, that has been going on now for 12 years. It has taken not one, not two but three court cases and it still has not been resolved. So why are we back here today debating this injustice in this Chamber? It is because of our failure to resolve the issue that we are back here. We have to continue to publicise this issue until it is resolved. What is this injustice? Mr Wieland started to highlight it when he spoke on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The injustice is about two people doing the same job, working side by side, but on different pay and under different conditions. If we truly believe in the single market and the free movement of people, that should not happen. I disagree with my colleague, Mr Lisi, who spoke earlier. He talked about these people wanting a "privileged" position. They are not asking for a privileged position, they are just asking for the same. Until they get the same as their equivalents in Italy this matter will rumble on. I listened carefully to what Mr Busquin said on behalf of the Commission. Some people say there is a whiff of hypocrisy from the Commission. Some even go further and say there is a stench of hypocrisy from the Commission. I will go as far so to say there is a small smell of hypocrisy coming from the Commission. If the Commission were truly serious about resolving this issue it would have been resolved years ago. We can perhaps accept that the previous Commission under Mr Santer was not the best, so that is why it went. But I have to say we are looking at this Commission: the President of this Commission is fully aware of this case, is fully aware of the facts, and yet nothing has been done to resolve it. We have to ask why. That is why this Parliament today is again debating this issue, highlighting this issue, to put it back before the Commission and say: get this sorted out. . – Mr President, earlier today we heard in the context of the copyright and GMO legislation how it has taken three years for Parliament to reach the point of being in a position to approve it. Can I say that this report has been under negotiation for nine years and it is only now coming to fruition. Since I took over the rapporteurship of this report I have tried to involve all the interested parties from the manufacturing side right through to the user side. On the manufacturing side, I have had several meetings with the European constructors’ association as well as individual bus companies. All of these organisations are happy with the common position the amendments. In fact, they welcome the clarification it brings to the market. I have listened to the users carefully and I have consulted widely. It is only after these consultations that I have put forward the amendments that you have in front of you tonight. I would also pay tribute to the shadow rapporteurs who worked with me closely throughout the compiling of this report. Unfortunately not all of them were able to persuade their groups to follow the line. Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 5 are specific detailed technical amendments designed to assist the manufacturers and relate to gangway slopes of 12.5% on existing class I and II buses. These amendments have to be taken in conjunction with Amendment No 7. In Amendment No 6 I am seeking to replace that with Amendment No 10 which refers to the ISO standard and not to separate Member State standards which I had initially put in Amendment No 6. Amendment No 4 sets out in more detail the user groups that this report is trying to assist. This list is, however, neither exhaustive nor prescriptive. It was never intended to be and leaves plenty of scope for the inclusion of others. Amendment No 8 opens up access to public transport to all those groups referred to in the aforementioned Amendment No 4. For the first time, we are making public transport accessible to all those people with reduced mobility. This will be done by providing a kneeling system with either a lift or ramp but it also takes into account infrastructure improvements which have been carried out as well. Maybe I should declare an interest at this point. Just before Christmas my mother unexpectedly lost her sight. As a son I obviously wish to help her, as I wish to help all visually impaired people within the European Union. It is what I was elected to do and I am sure it is what the vast majority of people in this Parliament were elected to do. These citizens are important users of public transport and they depend on us in the European Parliament to get it right. We have that chance tomorrow by voting for those amendments. I must, however, also mention Amendment No 9 which was submitted later by the PPE-DE Group. When this came up at the Legal Affairs Committee it went through unanimously but then, all of a sudden, we heard that the PPE-DE Group wishes to reject the common position. I am sorry and disappointed that their amendment rejects the common position. That would set back accessibility for those citizens I mentioned earlier by several years. I understand that one of the reasons that they are proposing rejection of the common position is because it will shackle the industry. It will tie up the industry in red tape. Can I ask those in the PPE-DE who are intending to speak on this how they would feel if they were shackled to a wheelchair or to sticks or to having to have a guide dog? That is shackling, not what we are trying to do with the industry. I would be ashamed if their Amendment No 9 is carried. I would be ashamed for every Member of this Parliament who puts their hand up or presses a button to vote for that amendment. I therefore urge you to vote against Amendment No 9 but support the other amendments. – Mr President, I congratulate Mr Harbour on his first report. For a new Member he has done very well on this. He gave a clear explanation of what the report is about. I would like to pick up on a couple of the aspects he touched upon. These relate to the question of safety. Safety was pertinent to this report all the way through. At the very end it picks up the question of safety of two-wheeled vehicles. Perhaps not many people here realise that there are more accidents involving motorbikes in the vicinity of roundabouts than anywhere else on motorways or roads. Why is that? It is because of diesel spillage. Mr Harbour recognises that in his first amendment. He states quite clearly that diesel spillage is a danger to users of two-wheeled vehicles. So we have to look at why there is more spillage of diesel around motorways. It is because of missing caps or ill-fitting caps on fuel tanks. As these commercial vehicles go round roundabouts the fuel tends to spill out and motorbikes following closely behind skid on the greasy surface that diesel leaves. Therefore, the second amendment tackles this whole question of the ill-fitting caps and, sometimes, no caps at all. I congratulate him on that. I should also like to point out that motorcycling is enjoying a boom at the moment. There is a revival in motorcycling. I do not know why. I look around this room and see that most of us are probably approaching middle age. Maybe some of us hanker back to our younger days and fulfilling the role of Dennis Hopper in the film . I do not know, but anyway motorcycling is enjoying a revival. I welcome that, and if there is increasing usage of motorcycles on the roads, then we have to make those roads safer. Therefore my group will fully support Mr Harbour’s report. –Mr President, like everybody else in the Chamber, I welcome this directive. For too long now we have operated on the polluter pays principle, but what has the polluter paid in the past? The polluter has paid a small fine which never bears any resemblance to the actual clear-up costs of a site. It is high time that we got round to not 'the polluter pays', but 'the polluter restores the site'. That is what this directive sets out to do. However, the directive, as amended by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, is a weak directive at the moment. We have left it unclear, we have left it vague. I will point out some areas in which we have done that. The definition of biodiversity is a very weak and very vague description. It gives no comfort to the operators, no comfort to the environmental organisations and no comfort to the general public. That is why I support the compromise amendment put forward by my own group, the GUE/NGL and the Verts/ALE. Another point which the directive, as amended by the Legal Affairs Committee, has failed to address is that of mandatory financial insurance. As it is formulated at the moment, it will allow bad operators to continue to be bad operators. If they fall foul of the law they will go into insolvency. Who will pick up the cost of that? It will be the general public. It will pick up the bill for restoring the site and operators will walk away once more. We cannot allow that to happen. Again, I urge people to look at the compromise coming from the three groups that I mentioned earlier. On the question of permit defences, again, a full permit defence could be seen as a licence to pollute. We must not allow that. We must look at giving Member States and the courts the power to intervene if they believe that there has been pollution by somebody with a permit defence. My group, and the European Parliamentary Labour Party, has some difficulty with the question of GMOs, not because we are against GMOs but because we think this legislation might weaken existing GMO legislation. Therefore we will be asking for a split vote on one of the amendments. Mr President, since this is the season of good will, could you use the good offices of the presidency of Parliament to resolve a situation which has occurred in London? I understand that the UK Independence Party, that august organisation, has locked out all the staff from the European Parliament office in London. At this time of the year we do not want to see more people on the streets. Could the President intervene to try and resolve the problem of those poor people stranded on the streets? . I welcome this Report on the Green Paper on services of general interest. It gives Parliament the opportunity to outline the future for public services. This should not involve unbridled liberalisation; it should involve a careful reflection on what has gone before and on what has and has not worked. There are some areas where I differ from my colleagues in the Socialist Group. I believe that public radio and television broadcasters who play a major role in preserving cultural diversity and identity should be exempted from the competition rules. The same should be the case for charitable organisations which carry out a public service. The last point I wish to make is that, when the legislation comes back to Parliament, there must be full engagement of that institution and that means codecision. On behalf of the European Parliament Labour Party, I wish to indicate that while we have supported the major part of the Lienemann report, we have certain reservations. The timetable set in the report of 2020 is unrealistic and impracticable, but the timetable set by the Council of 2034 is too far in the distance. We believe therefore that conciliation will set a more realistic date. We have voted against Amendments Nos 25 and 72 which would require the achievement of minimal anthroprogenic pollution in all groundwater. We believe this requirement is unrealistic in view of the very high cost and extremely long timescales involved in restoration to a near pristine standard. The foregoing is the reason for our vote. – Madam President, to follow on from the point that Mr Lannoye made: Mrs Lucas was arrested just outside Glasgow for protesting against the Trident base at Faslane. I have a lot of sympathy with that protest. I have, however, no sympathy for Mrs Lucas trying to hide behind her Parliamentary immunity. I have also been arrested for protesting at Faslane. I did not hide behind any immunity. I took the punishment that came to me. Mrs Lucas should do the same. – Mr President, under Amendment No 14(2)(f), I should like to add the following words after "seagoing vessels": "inland waterway vessels". It was remiss of me at committee to have missed that out. I have raised it with the rapporteur and he is in agreement with this. British Labour Members fully support a Charter of Fundamental Rights which makes visible citizens’ rights across the EU. However, we are at a very early stage in the process of determining the Charter. It is therefore too early to say what should be legally binding. This decision will be made at a later stage as recognised by the report itself in Paragraph 6. That Paragraph also states that any legally binding status recognises that Fundamental Rights are indivisible by making the Charter applicable to all the European Union's institutions and bodies and all its policies. This is a recognisable aim which British Labour Members would support. As the final Charter text is not available, we are supporting the Charter in principle but awaiting the final version. This is a complex process which needs clarity and precision at all stages to ensure that the end result is a positive and visible step forward for people in all EU countries. – Mr President, I speak on yesterday's Minutes and something which is not in them. Yesterday evening I raised two points. One was on the success of Euro 2000. The second one was on whether or not Mr Helmer joined with me in congratulating Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II on welcoming the introduction of the euro into the UK. I do not see that minuted. Could you change that please? *** Mr President, I should like to thank all those involved in the conciliation. As Mr Zappalà pointed out, we were not always in agreement, but we did eventually reach a decision. These two directives are a step forward – not a huge step, as Mrs Schörling said, but at least some progress has been made. Comparing what was there originally with what we have today shows considerable progress. But why is this? We have talked tonight about the huge market involved in the whole area of public procurement. The Commissioner himself mentioned the huge figures involved. But too often when we talk about that market and about public procurement we talk purely about an economic market. These two directives change all that: social and environmental criteria have now been introduced. This means that the tendering authority does not have to accept the lowest tender. Tendering authorities can also take into account recent case-law and I am glad that the Commissioner highlighted the 4 December judgment. We also have the July court decision on the Altmark bus case and, as Mrs Thors pointed out, the Helsinki bus case. This Parliament has added a social dimension to economic legislation. We must never forget that while we strive for a competitive economy by 2010, this has to be accompanied by social progress. That is why I will support tomorrow's vote: even though I voted against this conciliation I will actually now vote in favour. – Mr President, my point of order is exactly the same as Mr Provan’s. I, like many Members in this Chamber, have looked at the official record at lunchtime today and it does say 273 for, and 272 against. If that is the official record – and that is the record that is published – then I would suggest that the result given by the President this morning is incorrect. . – The UK Labour Members of the PSE Group welcome this report without endorsing all of its detail. We think a re-organising of the Treaties and their simplification would make it easier for citizens to see clearly the field of EU responsibilities – and their limits – as well as the procedures for exercising these responsibilities. We welcome the idea that future changes, after Nice, could be prepared by a convention involving national parliaments, the European Parliament and government representatives, as recently tried, successfully, with the convention that prepared the Charter of Rights. Ratification, however, must be up to each Member State in accordance with its own procedures and traditions. We also do not wish to pre-empt this work by deciding now what should be in the new constitution, such as whether the Charter should be included. We have a constitution already in the form of the Treaties, in so far as they lay down the competences of the Union, its procedures and the composition and powers of its institutions. However they are not codified, they are unclear and they are insufficient as regards efficiency and democracy. We welcome attempts to improve them. . – The UK Labour members of the PES Group welcome the adoption of their contribution to the ongoing work of the IGC on reinforced cooperation, without endorsing every single detail. Clearly the triggering of reinforced cooperation must be made easier in an enlarged Union. It must be used sparingly and must remain open to those who do not initially participate. It must not undermine the existing core of common policies and commitments. It must take place within the existing institutional structure. On these key principles we are in agreement with the report even if the details will require further refinement in the IGC. .  Mr President, I am not in the business of helping out the Liberals. Paragraph 33 is poor. Even if this were added to it, it would not sufficiently improve the paragraph to make it a good one. Consequently, I would rather vote against paragraph 33 and vote on the amendment. . – Mr President, can I again thank all my colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market for their assistance in producing this report. The first reading of this report went through Parliament earlier this year – in April I believe – and that report had two aims similar to the aims of this report. The first was the free movement of cableway installations. That is central to the whole concept of the single market. But this can only be done – and I stress “can only be done” – where we have harmonisation of safety standards. I would add that each Member State remains responsible for overseeing that. So the central point initially was the free movement of cableway installations. The second point was the safety of cableway installations. Earlier this evening I spoke about safety – the safety of two-wheeled vehicles on the road. We in the European Union should be concerned about all aspects of safety in all modes of transport, not just two-wheeled vehicles, four-wheeled vehicles, trains, planes, boats or whatever, but also in relation to cable cars and cable installations. We have to be concerned about safety. That brings me on to the amendments which have been tabled here by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 5 clarify the position with regard to all persons utilising cableways. In the past, this has been a grey area but hopefully now, with the introduction of those four amendments, we will have clarified the position for all persons using those installations. Amendment No 4 is basically a tidying-up operation, as the earlier paragraph was out of date. Amendment No 6 takes out the question of mining which is the subject of separate legislation. Amendments Nos 7, 8, 9 and 10 simplify the safeguard clause. If we had agreed fully with the Commission text we would have had three unwieldy safeguard paragraphs. By doing it this way we have one simplified paragraph. Amendment No 11 again highlights safety aspects. Amendment No 12 is again a tidying-up exercise. I commend this report to you. It highlights the whole question of safety within the European Union; it is an area we should all be concerned about and, as such, I would hope that the Commission and Council will accept it. – Madam President, coming back to a point that was raised earlier on: 9 May is, as you know, Europe Day and Parliament will be closed. There is, however, a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market being held on that day. Will members of the public be allowed to attend that meeting as observers or will they be barred from entering the Parliament? – Mr President, may I first of all raise the issue of why this subject is on the agenda? I was in this House on Monday night when the agenda was agreed by this body. The item was not agreed for the agenda. Later on, when one of our colleagues, Mrs Doyle, raised the issue, all of a sudden the President decided that this issue should go on to the agenda. That is not a democratic and fair way of drawing up this House's agenda. This House draws up the agenda, not the President at the whim of one Member. I also notice that Mrs Doyle is not here today to take part in this. That said, I will go on to talk about the subject in question. It is time we had a debate on the subject. I listened to Mr McCartin earlier and it is evident he has got the wrong end of the stick. This is not discriminating against every other driver or road haulier in Europe to the benefit of British drivers. This applies to all road hauliers, whether they come from the UK or any other country. That should be made quite clear. Also, the details are yet to be fully worked out but I was quite heartened to hear the statement from the Commissioner about how it is going to be proposed and developed. I am sure the British government will be in discussion with the Commission in applying this vignette. I should also like to pick up on a point raised by Mr MacCormick. He talked about the trade between Ireland and Scotland, the south west of Scotland, coming over to Stranraer and Loch Ryan. He said that he hoped the money raised by this vignette would go towards improving the infrastructure around the south west of Scotland. I know the south west of Scotland is part of my area and yes, the infrastructure there is not the best, it can be improved. But can I point out to Mr MacCormick that this vignette is for the whole of the UK. It is to improve the road structure throughout the whole of the UK. We cannot take one small area of the UK and say that is where it is going. It is for the whole of the UK. That is a point we should be making quite clearly. . – Mr President, I should like to begin by pointing out a technical correction. This is something that should have been picked up in committee but, unfortunately, it was not. It refers in Annex IV, 2.2, to gauge pressure of 500 HPA, where in fact it should actually refer to 0.5 HPA. I would be most grateful if that small technical correction could be made. I am sure all manufacturers of car heating systems would also be grateful. There are two further amendments on this. Both are very technical and have been suggested to me by the industry. When I looked at them I did not see any problem. I have submitted them to the committee and it has approved them. The very fact that I have stood up here and said that two further amendments have been submitted to me by the manufacturers highlights the dilemma Parliament faces with this type of directive. Last month, I moved a report on making buses accessible to disabled people. Certain people criticised that report because it was far too technical. I had actually taken a lot of the technicalities out of it. However, when we come to this report, I wonder what I am doing, standing here at 10.30 p.m. on a Tuesday night, arguing over technicalities. This is not a job for Parliament. We should be directing policy in the way it is going, but we should not be discussing technicalities which would have been better addressed elsewhere. I would like to suggest to the Commission that some of us get together at some point in the near future to stop this sort of report coming on to the agenda of Parliament. It is wasting the Commission's time and it is wasting our time. It is high time that we started looking at ways of removing these technical reports – which are not political by any means – from the agenda. They should be discussed within the appropriate forum where engineers, technicians, scientists etc., or whatever technical group, would look at these specifications rather than coming to me. I am not an engineer: I was a milkman in my first trade. I do not know how I am expected to know the difference between 0.5 HPA and 500 HPA. I make a plea to the Commission that we address this problem. Hopefully we can get a decent night's sleep some time in the future. Mr President, on the voting slip which we have in front of us it says that Amendment No 85 is identical to Amendment No 99. I should like to point out that this is not actually the case. The two amendments are significantly different, especially in relation to the Nuclear Conventions of Paris and Vienna. In Amendment No 85, the paragraph which is under the IMO provisions is not under the nuclear provisions. In Amendment No 99, it is. I know this is slightly confusing, but it is a confusing directive! They are not the same and therefore should not be voted as identical amendments. – Mr President, this is without doubt a global disaster affecting all European coastlines and Europe must pool all its resources to combat it. That is why I am dismayed by the reports that the Commissioner is suggesting Gibraltar was in some way responsible because it failed to inspect the ship. I would like to point out to the Commissioner that the has only called in at Gibraltar once in the last five years and then it did not even enter the port, it refuelled outside. In that period it has also put in at several other ports, including Algeciras, Las Palmas, Dunkirk, Cork, Rotterdam and Kalamata. We have a saying in Glasgow: if you live in a glasshouse you do not have sex with your gardener! After the  sank off the coast of Scotland in 1992, Neil Kinnock put forward legislation on double-hull vessels. As the Commissioner rightly pointed out, that was deferred by the Council until 2015. However, we need new legislation now to close up the loopholes. – Mr President, I should just like to touch on a couple of points that Mr Evans raised. First of all, I acknowledge that there is difficulty in the Midlands with the Rover Group. I would not like to make political capital out of it. There are too many jobs at stake. Secondly, he also mentioned their by-election. I congratulate his party in securing a victory in this by-election. But, unlike him, I have been in Ayr for the last three weeks, on the doorstep. I can tell you that additionality was never raised once. I turn to the question at hand. I thank the Nationalists for having raised this. It is right that we have a proper discussion on the whole question of the Structural Funds. But I suspect there is a deeper plot here. What are they actually trying to achieve? I listened to Ms Evans. Basically, what I took from her contribution is that she wants to redefine the Structural Funds regulations. I would remind people in this Parliament that it was not so long ago that this Parliament passed, by the assent procedure, the rules and regulations governing the Structural Funds, including Article 11, which defines additionality. Is it therefore Parliament's role now to change that? We should not change that. The role of this Parliament is to ensure that the rules are complied with. That is what we should concentrate on. I know that Ms Evans, along with one of her colleagues, Dafydd Wigley and a member of the Scottish Nationalist Party, Mr Wilson, went to meet Commissioner Barnier. I should like to read out the statement made by Commissioner Barnier after that meeting: “I know that there has been a great deal of debate in Scotland and Wales recently about European regional funding. But I have the impression that this has sometimes confused two separate issues – additionality and cofinancing. I am not surprised that there is a certain amount of confusion among the Nationalists on this. Additionality, whether or not EU funds are providing additional impact, compared to what would otherwise have happened, can be used as  of the selection criteria by the local programme planners before they decide to approve aid to individual projects. The Commission, on the other hand, is obliged by the rules to make a global assessment of additionality for the UK as a whole, with the specific aim of ensuring that the European financial aid is additional to, and not a substitute for, national finance. We have always been satisfied in the past that the national requirements have been met”. – I voted for the Bösch report but I did so with some reluctance as I share along with many of my colleagues doubts about a European Public Prosecutor and its role. However, as this role has been confined to criminal offences committed against the financial interests of the European Communities by members and employees of EU institutions, then I felt this restricted role is worth supporting. The location of this office in Luxembourg is sensible due to the proximity of the European Court of Justice. The widening of the scope of the European Public Prosecutors office will have to be carefully monitored so as not to encroach into the Member States competence. - Mr President, I wonder if it is possible to get a set of headphones. I do not appear to have a set at my desk and I must apologise to Mrs Thors, my Finnish is not that great. . I have not missed one day in any of the Parliamentary sessions since the election and, I believe, only two in the previous Parliament. It is therefore with some hesitation that I voted for the deletion of Fridays from the Strasbourg sessions. I have come to the opinion that agendas for the Friday sessions have been engineered to fill up the session and are becoming increasingly meaningless. It does this institution no favours when, on a Friday, there are fewer than a hundred Members debating a resolution which is of no importance. This Parliament must restructure its mode of operation to reflect the changed working conditions. – Mr President, well, how can I respond to such an attack as that? When I raised the point on Monday, and on Tuesday, and on Wednesday, I asked Mr Helmer for his comments on the euro. So far, he has refused to comment. Can I also say that when Mrs Fontaine spoke to Her Majesty the Queen and obviously put certain questions to her the Queen, in her response, was representing her government, which is a Labour Government. That might not suit Mr Helmer, but I am sorry to say that is the way it goes. Can I also say yes, I am Scottish, yes, I am British, but, Mr Helmer, I am European as well and proud to be. *** EPLP Members fully support the main direction of the Maaten Report in highlighting health risks associated with tobacco. However, we believe that there are a number of technical areas which will need to be clarified following first reading in negotiation with the Commission and Council. The question of tobacco growing subsidy has not been addressed in this report. Although many Members feel it is part of the whole debate on tobacco and health and should have been included here, we believe that it would be more correctly brought up in reform of the CAP. Mr President, it is important that we have transparent, workable directives. It is important to give a clear lead to our local authorities or to our public – in some cases private – utilities. Above all, it is important that we give a clear lead to the workforces operating within those contracting authorities. The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market unfortunately did not provide that transparent, workable directive. What we have is two directives, which are not in line with each other. In fact, in certain areas, they are actually contradictory. The Legal Affairs Committee missed an opportunity to advance the social provisions to workers. It has advanced – to give it credit – the case of workers with disabilities. But we could have gone further. That is why I am reintroducing my Amendment No 166, which was adopted at first reading by a large majority. Now certain groups seem to have gone cold on it. Amendment No 166 to Article 53(1) and (2) reintroduces the flexibility contracting authorities require when deciding on awarding contracts, not just being bound by the lowest price. It should be made clear to all those companies that intend to tender for these contracts that they have to introduce social and environmental conditions for their own workforces or they will not get the contracts. . The EPLP cannot vote for the Rothley report on the Members' Statute. After yesterday's adoption of taxation at Community level, a salary at 50% of a European Court Judge's, an implementation date after 2004 and immunities which would involve primary legislation, we believe this has gone too far. The adoption of these measures will only further alienate Members of the European Parliament from the electorate at a time when we are trying to connect with the European public through the simplification and clarification of our rules. This Statute will not be seen as a step in that direction. The EPLP welcomes the reform of the expenses regime to travel at cost and will now work to have that implemented independently of the Statute. – Madam President, I would like to bring to your attention an incident last week where two football fans were tragically murdered on their way to watch their team play in the UEFA Cup. Football is a sport which transcends the world. Almost every country plays football. It is known as a beautiful game. In about three months Belgium and Holland will play host to Euro 2000. There is every likelihood that incidents such as those that happened last week will be repeated again in Belgium and Holland. Can I ask you, through your good offices, to contact all the Member States who are involved, to try and keep such problems to a minimum? . – Mr President, I am more than aware that this report will not rate amongst the greatest, most radical contributions to the European debate. The fact that there is such a "huge" turnout here tonight is a recognition of that fact by others. Nevertheless there are a number of factors and issues within this report. It should be seen as an opportunity for Parliament to reassess its work in relation not only to budget control but specifically to the discharge procedure. We must not forget that it was the reluctance of Parliament to give the green light to the way Euro-taxpayers' money was spent in 1996 that precipitated the fall of the Commission in 1999. What we are seeing as a result of the resignation of the Commission is a radical reform process. However, we must be careful within the European Parliament not to miss seeing the log in our own eye because we are concentrating so hard on the splinter in our neighbour's eye – the Commission. We have problems as well, perhaps not quite as big as the Commission's, but it is important that we recognise we also have problems. It is clear that the nuclear button in the shape of the discharge procedure cannot be pressed at the first sign of trouble. So the European Parliament needs to use this powerful weapon at its disposal in an extremely sensitive manner. The discharge procedure gives Parliament an opportunity to assess the financial management and financial resources of the European Union, to propose measures for its improvement and to express an overall political judgement on its quality. It is clear that the main focus of our work, within the Committee on Budgetary Control, will be on Commission management, and that ultimately we recognise that the Commission bears responsibility for implementing the budget. However, we must not forget that 85% of the money is spent and misspent within the Member States of the European Union. For far too long the Member States have hidden their guilt behind the complex mass of Commission officialdom who cannot answer back. Let us take one example: late payments. If EU money does not arrive on time, people lose their jobs. This has happened on several occasions in relation to the structural funds, for example. We have EU laws to protect business from such mismanagement and the Commission has now promised to introduce its own regulations to ensure prompt payments. But if the Commission coughs up money just to see it sitting in a Member State's coffers gaining interest, the problem persists as far as the end-user is concerned. So, where are the reforms from these guilty Member States? Here we have a problem, because we as the Committee on Budgetary Control and as a parliament are only as good as the information we have to work with. We depend on the Court of Auditors to provide us with the ammunition to fire at the problem areas. However, the reluctance of the Court – and for that matter the Commission – to name the guilty countries impedes our work. We are trying to extinguish a fire and are suffocating in the smoke. We need to know the source of the flames. The Court of Auditors and the Commission can hide behind the complication of the statement of assurance, but we will not be steered off our course. We have heard that, because spot checks are involved, it would be unfair to name the Member States. My colleague, Mr van Hulten drew an interesting parallel with spot checks on athletes who have had their whole careers ended. If they are guilty, they are named and shamed. We should do the same within Parliament. We also need to be given the complete picture when the annual report of the year under consideration is published. That means we need to know which countries paid back what. We need to know what is happening in terms of recovery. It is imperative also that we stick to the remit required of us and that we concentrate exclusively during the discharge process on the year in question. We have other mechanisms to highlight previously undetected instances of fraud. Another key recommendation in this report is to try to expand the responsibility of the discharge beyond the exclusive domain of the Committee on Budgetary Control. Controlling the Commission's management and spending is the main justification for the existence of the European Parliament and the discharge procedure is the chief instrument by which this is done. We have tried to get other committees involved in the past but they have not responded, so we want to try to change the regulations within Parliament. We are trying to watch the Commission and the Member States and this report is an attempt at doing that. – Mr President, I wanted to ask you about the decision of the Bureau that was taken last night on the issue of a Staff Regulation. I want to know on what basis that decision was taken. I think that the House should be reminded that when the present Commission was accepted, it was accepted on the basis of the need for radical reform. A decision was taken by the Bureau last night to adopt a rather more cautious approach than the one that has been adopted in plenary, but we did not want as in the past, we wanted a radical overhaul. I wish to know why the Bureau has gone against the spirit of what was accepted in the plenary both on the van Hulten report and on the Harbour report and why, given the critical importance and interinstitutional nature of this issue, the Vice-President for Reform, Commissioner Kinnock, was not invited to speak at that meeting. Could you, Mr President, give me an assurance that the Bureau will look at this again and also invite the Vice-President of the Commission to speak to the Bureau in order to amend the letter that was agreed last night? – Madam President, it is totally unacceptable that a building that cost millions of pounds, and which was officially opened less than six months ago, has thousands of faults and is now found to be a potential threat to the people who work in it. I trust that this problem will be raised in the negotiations for the final price of the building, which should strengthen Parliament’s hand in reducing the cost for the taxpayers of Europe.  *** – Mr President, I welcome this report by Mrs Langenhagen, the contents of which I am very happy to endorse. The Court of Auditors’ report on the FAIR Programme, from which the rapporteur’s report arises, was only published in March this year even though the sector letters regarding the audit were first sent to the Commission in December 1998 and February 1999. As the rapporteur suggested, this is simply unacceptable. It is too long a delay and undermines the relevance of Parliament’s work in considering such reports. This delay results from the contradictory procedure between the Court and the Commission which precedes the publication of every Court of Auditors’ report, whereby the Commission has the right to have its reply published at the same time as the report. As a result of the delay in this case the rapporteur quite rightly questions the continuation of the contradictory procedure in its current form. This is something I will certainly be exploring in the report I will be bringing to Parliament in December. It is sufficient to suggest that we need to look at the whole procedure again, not just in terms of the Court’s annual report which will be published tomorrow, but also in terms of special reports such as this one. The Court of Auditors’ report found a number of significant problems with the management of the FAIR Programme during 1994 to 1998, including a lack of quantified objectives for the programme, making it difficult to fully measure the results, insufficient transparency in selection and evaluation procedures and the management of measures under the programme by three DGs. This meant that the management of the programme lacked clarity and homogeneity. We hope that as a result of the reform of the Commission currently taking place we will see a huge correction of this in future. That we do not have clear targets, that we cannot measure output, is really unacceptable and would not happen in any other institution. This is very old hat. We know the change is coming, but we want to see it very quickly. One problem which remains is the EUR 3.4 million still to be recovered, 92% of which is accounted for by three files which have been under examination by the Commission’s legal services since July 1996 and August 1997 and whose due dates have expired. It is vital that the Commission follows that and gets its money back. We will be following this report’s recommendations in future so we encourage the Commission to put things right as soon as possible, otherwise you will see reference to this and other special reports within discharge procedure reports. – Mr President, as we are political anoraks in the Committee on Budgetary Control and there are a lot more people listening to us tonight, I will try and explain to them what is going on because budgetary control and discharge are really not terms that normal people understand. One of the primary tasks of the European Parliament is to assess the way the Commission is functioning. We are here to make sure that the Commission carries out its work properly. Therefore when people say that the Commission is unelected, we can tell them that we keep the Commission under control and hold them to account. One of our formal responsibilities is to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget. We have to be able to account to the people who elect us and explain to them how their money is spent. The Committee on Budgetary Control is the principal committee responsible for leading this task on behalf of the European Parliament: we scrutinise budget lines, follow up potential scandals, we see how the money is being misspent and we try and find out why processes are so complex and cumbersome. It was the discharge procedure that ultimately led to the forced resignation of the Commission back in 1999. That is what started the whole process. However, there is a danger – we must not be naive about what is going on – that the whole process could be hijacked for more sinister and for more political motives. It has become almost established practice within the Committee on Budgetary Control to postpone the discharge and to ask for more information. That means that there are now three options. In the past there were two options: we could give or refuse discharge. Now, as Mr Bourlanges has explained, we can give, refuse or postpone discharge. It is much easier if we have only two options and that is what is being put to us today. The Commissioner has a point when she says that the Commission could probably comply more quickly. I do not see this October part-session as the date by which we have to have the answer. That is the latest point at which Parliament gives its decision. We do not have to stick to October, but we have to do it by October. That is a slightly different interpretation. It is clear that we all want to complete it before the summer. It is also right that the Commission should have this additional breathing space, because if Members refuse discharge and want to criticise the Commission, then it needs time to try to put things right. The new process will also ensure that the process does not go on and on. That is what has happened in the past. It is what happened in the 1996 discharge – it just carried on. We are giving you an end date, we are telling Parliament that by this time it has to decide one way or the other. That is why this system is much better. The situation is clearer and the process will not be hijacked for political aims. Madam President, I should like to thank the Court of Auditors for its report. We are looking at the reform of a massive multinational administration and it is not going to be easy to turn it around overnight. There is a recognition in the Court's report, however, that things are heading in the right direction and we are pleased to see that. There are still major problems with accountancy and we wish to see those efforts speeded up within the Commission. Since the publication of this report, we in the United Kingdom have been treated to screaming headlines about the fraud that goes on within the EU. It is the ninth time the Court of Auditors has not given the nod to the accuracy of the figures in the largest areas of expenditure. We must always remember that 80% of the money is spent within the Member States, and until there is more responsibility on the part of the Member States, the Commission cannot possibly account for every euro. The issue I should like to concentrate on is the massive amount spent on invalidity pensions to institution staff. EUR 74 000 million are spent every year on people who are sick within the institutions. Of course, we have a responsibility to look after people who are sick, but the efforts made to help staff back to work are absolutely pitiful, especially those suffering psychological problems. 50% of staff said that there was no enquiry about their state of health or the possibility of them returning to work while on sick leave. In grades C and D, 62% of people retired on invalidity pensions while 21% retired on retirement pensions. I want to ask both the Court and the Court of Auditors whether they will be pressing for Member States to sign declarations of assurance – both for the Structural Funds and in the agricultural domain – in the forthcoming reforms. Until we get that we are not going to see an improvement on the whole issue of accountancy, or of the Structural Funds, or of where the responsibility lies. If we stand firm on this issue we will try and hold up the process within the European Parliament until the Member States start taking their responsibility. Are you going to be pressing for the Member States to sign declarations of assurance? – Mr President, today we have an open market within the European Union, but that means that the market is also open to fraudsters. Most of the fraud against the EU actually comes from money not collected. The Commission has estimated that EUR 90 billion has been lost to the EU budget from cigarette smuggling alone. We have some measures in place to stop fraud from occurring. OLAF has been established, it does its job and passes on the file to the Member States – where it sits on a shelf. We could sanction the Court of Auditors, but the question still has to be answered: who prosecutes? We could fraud-proof further but the question remains: who prosecutes? The establishment of Eurojust is there, but again: who prosecutes? The answer, which is factual rather than theoretical, is: almost nobody. Member States are not serious about tackling fraud in the EU. It took five years for them to ratify the Convention on the protection of financial interests. Prosecution against people who rip off the EU is absolutely minimal. The current system does not work. It is extremely difficult to prosecute cross-border fraud, partly because evidence collected in one Member State does not count in another Member State. What we have here on the table is a Green Paper. It is essential that the European Public Prosecutor's powers are restricted to the financial interests of the EU budget. Anything beyond that opens the door to massive complications and serious constitutional implications – which is why Paragraph 4, which calls for a judicial area to be set up, is nonsense. If the problem exists now, just imagine how difficult it will become following enlargement. If we are serious about tackling fraud, we must accept that the current system does not work and until there is an acceptable alternative, we must go along with this. . –The EPLP abstained on this report because it calls for the appointment of a European Public Prosecutor as advocated by the  expert group. A European Public Prosecutor established according to  would have wide-ranging powers to carry out investigations in Member States.  envisages the eventual creation of an independent European Prosecution Office with jurisdiction for offences against the EU's financial interests carried out both by members and officials of EU institutions and by third parties. It would establish the EU as a single legal area for the purpose of investigation, prosecution, trial and execution of sentences concerning this type of offence. The British Government is opposed to this proposal, which it considers is too broad in scope and presents too many problems in terms of different legal systems and traditions to be practical. The government's preference is to improve existing cooperation between Member States to tackle fraud and other serious crimes with a cross-border element. This would involve the ratification of the 1995 Convention on the protection of the European Communities' financial interests by those Member States which have yet to ratify, and the mutual recognition of legal systems. – Mr President, I would like to start by giving my thanks to the Court of Auditors for its very useful report this time on a range of issues. We were very critical of it at the time of the annual report but I think these special reports are very valuable. There are clearly a range of areas where the Commission has yet to act to improve matters. Today, I am going to concentrate on a response to the report written by Mr Dell'Alba on various aspects of the Structural Funds. Certainly, in my country, this is one of the areas where the European Union can visibly claim to be making a difference, and there is a recognition that Structural Funds and the attempt to increase wealth, and improve social conditions and employment rates in an area give a positive image of the EU. But we cannot stand by and uncritically applaud. The reports by the Court of Auditors clearly show that there is room for radical improvement, and the Commission has already introduced a new Structural Fund regulation to improve the situation and will obviously be checking very carefully to see whether these reforms have gone far enough. In the case of additionality, we must remember that European Funds are intended not to finance but to cofinance operations and must not take the place of public expenditure by national authorities. That is all very well, but even the new regulations only allow for assessment of additionality at a national level and not at a regional level. Rules are rules, but if there is no effective punishment after breaking them, they become weaker and unenforceable, so we need to see a solid legal basis to develop the possible imposition of sanctions. On the issue of the development of industrial sites, the Commission should not wring its hands but say that this should only be seen as part of a wider policy to assist SMEs. Substantial sums go into these developments. In Wales, for example, we know that this is a clear target; we need clear targets and objectives and we will be looking forward to seeing those within the Structural Fund programmes in future. – I should like, first of all, to thank the two Members for all their work in writing these reports. They have been tireless workers on fighting fraud in the European Union since they were appointed. However, there is a problem. According to the Commission report, there has been a doubling of fraud, in particular, of the revenue collected over the year 2000. That is of great concern but we must put it into context and remember that much of this is due to Member States not taking fraud seriously. They are not collecting the money that is due to the European Union, for example, from cigarette smuggling and the money that we could get through taxes. Member States are also not taking fraud seriously because we still have four Member States who have not ratified the Convention on the Protection of Financial Interests which means that nobody can move on in terms of fighting fraud. As regards the Structural Funds, 40% of the money is spent in the Member States and the data we have, in terms of following up where that money is spent, is unreliable. This situation is quite pathetic. What do we do when we find fraud? We pass a file onto OLAF who do the investigation and then it sits on a shelf because nobody prosecutes. This is a real problem. Who is going to take responsibility for prosecution? Only two people have ever been prosecuted by OLAF and this is a green light to fraudsters in the EU. We must ask if people are against the European Public Prosecutor, then what alternative do they want to see? We are asking a little bit too much in this report by asking for a regulation. But we also know that about half the Member States are against this and there is a possibility of losing an opportunity to have a European fraud prosecutor for the EU financial interests. We may be asking for too much too fast and I am concerned about that, but I respect the Members for really trying to push the boat out on this fraud issue. I believe that consumers have the right to know when GMOs are used in products in all circumstances; this pertains not only to food consumed by human beings but also animal feed. This requires clear labelling in all circumstances. I voted against the motion for a resolution because the reference in Article 1 to ‘re-certified aircraft with low by-pass ratios’ would effectively put an end to a project to re-engine aircraft in an unemployment blackspot of West Wales which could potentially create 400 jobs. This is because the engines which the company concerned plans to use have a by-pass ratio of less than three and so would be excluded from EU airspace under the Regulation as it stands. Article 2(2) excludes from the scope of the Regulation only aircraft which have been completely re-engined ‘with engines having a by-pass ratio of three or more’. This is in spite of the fact that the engines in question would easily meet all noise and emissions standards. Aircraft noise is not determined by engine by-pass ratio alone, and I believe that aircraft noise should be measured by the actual noise made during take-off, fly-past and landing as is the case under the Chicago Convention. .Madam President, with that long list you make it sound as though I have been extremely busy. I would like to concentrate on those institutions that you have just mentioned. The exercise, of course, considers the expenditure, and assesses the effective use of European taxpayers' money relating to those institutions. There is also reference in this report to the Council, which I will touch on later. Generally speaking there were no great concerns relating to the Court of Justice although we will clearly be following up some of the requests we have made to it on more detailed issues. We grant discharge to the Court of Justice. The Court of Auditors seems still reluctant to name Member States found wanting, and I warn the Court again that we will not rest until this request is complied with. More consumer-friendly reports would be welcome, as would a declaration of interests by the Court on the Internet, as is currently carried out by most of the other institutions. The Court must never feel itself to be too grand to conform to the standards we have learned to expect from other high-profile public servants. We grant discharge to the Court of Auditors, however. The new Ombudsman budget is very small, so any money not spent will perhaps be disproportionally reflected in percentage figures, but it is something that the Budget Committee needs to keep an eye on when they are setting the Ombudsman's budget. We grant discharge to the Ombudsman. The Committee of the Regions is also a relative newcomer to the European scene. It is good to see some shared expenditure with the Economic and Social Committee although at times this does not go far enough. A future report by the Committee on Budgetary Control may perhaps examine the value for money and impact assessment of this institution. Both the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions performed quite well in relation to the Belliard and Montoyer buildings and played quite a good game with the poor set of cards that were dealt to them unfairly by Parliament. We grant discharge to the Committee of the Regions. I turn now to the area where the report's focus lies, and that is on the Economic and Social Committee: a committee which has been in existence since the beginning of this great project. Whilst the report recognises the Economic and Social Committee can act as a forum for interest groups which would otherwise not be able to make their voices heard in the EU context, developments over recent years – including, for example, the social protocol – must now be considered. Do we see some duplication here for example? We have concerns that the information does not filter down to the grass roots. The massive costs of financing this institution, which will reach almost EUR 100 million after enlargement, also gives us great concerns. Even amongst some trade unions, which are recognised by and which use the Institution, there is criticism. One prominent British trade union was prepared to say 'that the Economic and Social Committee appears to be redundant; we would be content for it to be abolished'. Another worrying aspect of the ESC came in their reaction to this report which claimed that the concept of value for money of a body established by the European Treaties is highly questionable and politically unjustifiable. Try telling that to the taxpayers of Europe! I think it is pretty obvious, when you see reactions like that, there is not much accountability going on within the Economic and Social Committee. The Budgetary Control Committee is recommending that discharge be refused to the Economic and Social Committee for the years 1996 and 1997. This is a historic move and it is not taken lightly. Only on two occasions before has the discharge been refused; once of course which led to the forced resignation of the Commission in 1999. It may perhaps seem strange that we have waited until now to assess the accounts and expenditure for 1996. However, it has taken until now to receive objective clarification on irregularities relating to payments of members' travel allowances. The whole sequence of events from the fraud itself involving 59 members of the Economic and Social Committee amounting to over EUR 1 million, to the scandalously relaxed attitude of Economic and Social Committee managers and their efforts to cover up the problem, to the botched and unprofessional approach of OLAF, the European Fraud Office, all reeks of incompetence, procrastination and amateurism. It has taken six years to get to the bottom of this fraud that occurred in 1996. This situation is a disgrace. It has meant that there has been no chance of prosecuting those involved, as the Courts have said that too much time has elapsed. There have been improvements since then however, which is why we do grant discharge to the Economic and Social Committee for 1998, 1999 and 2000. It is important that the Convention on the Future of Europe should take heed of the message in this report. I turn finally very briefly to the Council. Traditionally we have lumped this together with the Commission expenditure. This year, however, the Court of Auditors has prepared a critical report on the workings of the common foreign and security policy. This again is a fairly new area for the Council. The Committee on Budgetary Control has asked for answers and clarification on some of the issues on which the Court of Auditors has concerns. The Council is discussing that this morning, so we are waiting for the results from the Council before we take a vote on this. I hope you will bear that in mind when it comes to the vote. I hope that the Economic and Social Committee will deal with the fact that we have not given them discharge with the gravity that this issue deserves. – The title is not correct. It should be a resolution on regional and lesser-used languages and I hope that this will be corrected. – Mr President, on a point of order, I wish to point out that it was the PPE who insisted that we looked at the whole question of the funding of political parties in this report. It was the PPE and it was you, Mr Elles, who insisted on that. We are responding to that request. You insisted on it, we are responding. – Mr President, the Committee on Budgetary Control has considered several reports recently, mostly relating to the 1998 discharge procedure. It is a strange time for us to be considering how the Commission is faring after its forced resignation last year due to many of the issues highlighted in the 1996 discharge. The discharge procedure is, of course, an opportunity for the European Parliament to exercise its responsibility in terms of monitoring the Commission and the other institutions' behaviour. We check their accounts. We ensure that policies have been well managed. The Commission spent the last year preparing for a radical reform, outlined in the White Paper presented on 1 March, and we appreciate that it will take more than a few months to turn this massive tanker around. Parliament and the Budgetary Control Committee are, however, keen to ensure that the reform occurs at a speedy pace, which is why we have decided to postpone discharge in the expectation that the Commission will hit the targets that we have set them within the next two months. The report as it stands at the moment is very different from the initial report that was submitted by Mrs Stauner on behalf of the EPP Group. That was clearly used as a political battering ram. Mrs Stauner quoted Goethe. I will quote Shakespeare. The report was full of sound and fury signifying nothing. That is why the explanatory statement attached to this report has not been agreed by the Budgetary Control Committee. It makes no sense in the context of the postponement report, and it is totally nonsensical and hysterical in tone. We are delighted that there was an almost unanimous consensus, however, on the new practical approach to the general discharge. We would like to thank the rapporteur for her cooperation on that. We expect and hope that the Commission will deliver and the rapporteur will perhaps take a more considered approach in her final report. But one thing which has become manifestly clear to me during this process is that we need an overhaul of the discharge procedure to avoid this kind of confrontation again. This discharge procedure should be an opportunity to study systems failures within the Commission. In an ideal world, it should be based on the Court of Auditors' Report, but that does mean that both the Budgetary Control Committee and the Court of Auditors must develop a much closer relationship. There is a massive amount of expertise in the Court of Auditors, expertise that Parliament should draw on in order to reach its own political conclusions. The discharge procedure should not be a time to score political points nor to hound individuals but, where systems fail and lead to inefficiency or – worse – to fraud, it is the duty of Parliament to correct them. We must also make sure that we find a mechanism within this system to make sure that we take account not only of the reports that are submitted by members of the Budgetary Control Committee, but also those by members of other parliamentary committees. In postponing the discharge, we have set out clear points that we expect the Commission to act upon. Never again will we accept the situation where we cannot get to the bottom of a case, because documents have gone missing. Clear lines of responsibility must be established so that if problems occur, disciplinary action will follow. Never again will we accept a situation where misconduct or a bad administrator will be judged by his or her peers. We expect an external element to be included, as advised by the Committee of Independent Experts. These are just two examples of how the Commission can improve its act in the short term without waiting to implement all the recommendations of the White Paper. There is a question to answer as to whether the current Commission should or can take responsibility for the mistakes and problems of the past Commission. Let us not forget that here we are considering the discharge for 1998. If we took this to its logical conclusion, it would mean that Parliament could only judge a sitting Commission during three years of its tenure. That is why it is clear that we must address systems failures rather than attack individuals or individual Commissioners who may no longer be involved. We do not want witch-hunts. We want answers as to how best we spend European taxpayers' money. I would like to turn very briefly to the other reports that we have considered in committee, and first of all to the Kuhne report on the European Parliament. Mr Kuhne has done an excellent job as rapporteur for the Parliament discharge. There is no doubt that there have been vast improvements in Parliament's performance. Our financial control system does not have the quantity of payments that the Commission has and therefore things are more manageable. We have had everlasting problems, of course, with the buildings, often through no fault of our own but because decisions have been imposed on us by the Council. If the Council had any concern about budget control, we certainly would not be sitting in this building right now. There has been a great deal of talk about a report on political group expenditure. The fact is that our committee has not seen this report. It has still not been published officially, and therefore it is difficult for us to comment on it. But transparency is a principle that we must hold dear in this context. I am delighted that Mrs Rühle has done such a great job on the EDF report. Mr Mulder has done a great job as well, displaying his usual wizardry with the EAGGF accounts. We support Mr Casaca in his approach, although we did not expect the Commission to support us on that of course. We certainly do not expect the Council to support our position on the Casaca Report. We are voting for postponement on many accounts. The important reports, of course, will come next. We hope that we will be able to develop a better approach in the next part of this discharge procedure. It is important that we find a new way of doing it. Thank you, Mr President, for all your kind support over the years for the Budgetary Control Committee. It is always greatly appreciated. – Mr President, I would like to express my extreme disappointment at the fact that the President of the Court of Auditors did not give his report yesterday. He should have given his report. He should have cancelled any other engagements he had. He should have prioritised giving that report to Parliament. We only ask him to do that once a year, and any other engagement should have been secondary to this very important opportunity to let us know exactly how he feels about the European institutions. I am very disappointed, and I would ask you to write to the President of the Court of Auditors to express the disappointment of the House. . – Mr President, I would like to thank the Budget Committee and Mr Bourlanges for their work. I am grateful to the commitment that they have shown in the fight against fraud in the European Union and, in particular, with the extra commitment they have made – an extra EUR 9 million has been voted by the Budget Committee for OLAF. This will allow for the creation of an extra 50 to 75 new posts in the year 2000 on top of the 30 new posts voted for in the supplementary and amending budgets. I should remind you that OLAF needs 300 posts to carry out its duties. This was endorsed by the report of the Committee of Independent Experts. Let us not forget that there are raised expectations in terms of the public’s attitude towards reform of the European institutions. It is essential that OLAF is given the appropriate resources. I should like to remind the Commission that we will not allow OLAF’s independence to be compromised by budgetary gains – a little note there for the future. I am disappointed that the Council Presidency has not referred to this. Are you committed to the extra 75 posts or not? I would be grateful for some kind of feedback on that. You need to show the same commitment to fighting fraud as we are within the European Parliament. Another issue for the Budgetary Control Committee is the use of technical assistance agencies. In its budget guidelines for the year 2000, Parliament called for the phasing out of the agencies. And for the Commission to provide it with an assessment of its staffing needs. That has not been done. The Budget Committee has entered expenditure on logistical support and technical assistance in a separate section, with 90% of those appropriations in reserve. The Budgetary Control Committee would support this approach. It is absolutely right that those appropriations should not be released until the Commission has defined those categories of tasks that need to be outsourced. We look forward to receiving that information from the Commission. On another matter, in 1999 there have been large under-spends in the Community initiatives, the cohesion fund and many other areas. In some cases this is the second or third consecutive year when there has been a large transfer away from particular lines. This demonstrates the need for Parliament to monitor budget implementation more closely throughout the year. The subject committees must take more responsibility for monitoring the budget lines within those areas. If we do that then we can feed that into the budgetary process and make sure that we are more on track during the course of the year. Mr President, if we send this back to the committee, I cannot promise in which form it will come back. We could start a major constitutional crisis with the Council. We have just got an answer from the Council on the common foreign and security policy. We should acknowledge that as a major shift from the Council, which is why I am urging you to vote today in favour of the line that I have proposed. – The wording in the joint resolution, which was agreed by everybody who was party to the joint resolution, is regional and lesser-used languages. That is what is used throughout the document. – Mr President, I would also like to thank the Court of Auditors for its report again this year. I am extremely disappointed that this is the first occasion on which the Court has been able to present its audit this year. I think it is one of the primary responsibilities of this Parliament and I am very saddened that it has taken it until December to put on the agenda something that came out in November. The way the report has been set out has improved a little bit; however, I think the document itself is still largely impenetrable. It is over-complicated and is badly presented. We hope, President, that you will continue in your efforts to make this clearer in future. The main issue on which the Budget Control Committee is likely to concentrate this year is of course the accounting system of the Commission. This is not because Marta Andreassen has told us that we should do that, but because the Court has been pointing out these failures since 1994. The fact is that the Commission has been extremely slow in instigating those reforms and we still are unlikely to see a complete radical reform until 2005. I think this is an unacceptable degree of complacency. We must go much further and set a more ambitious timetable. Although we do recognise, and in fact what we are asking the Commission to do here is already ahead of 11 EU Member States in their presentation of their accounts. But we are being tough on you and we want to push you to meet the standards of the best. The Court has also been remiss in the fact that they have failed again to name and shame Member States who have failed to control EU spending and I do not think we are ever going to identify the real culprits until the Court of Auditors stops being quite so cowardly and starts naming people. It is also worth noting, as people have said before, that this is the first year when Directors General have taken control of their own departments but 22 of those DGs have expressed reservations and we will be investigating those during our research. An issue that many are keen to follow is also the failure of the Commission to fine Member States who infringe EU directives and I would just like to warn the Commission that we are going to take this issue a lot more seriously. We want to see more money coming into EU coffers from the fines that should be imposed on Members States who fail to respect directives. – Mr President, I am pleased to see that you have changed the title of this debate: it is about regional and lesser-used languages. I welcome the fact that we are discussing this at all. This is the first time in eight years that lesser-used languages have been discussed in this House. It is appropriate that we discuss it now at the end of the European Year of Languages. The fact that we have not discussed this reflects the problems that are faced by lesser-used language communities in terms of their relationship with the EU. The legal base of the budget line is being challenged by the Council. We have put money on this line this year and we expect the Commission to spend that money. We do not want any legal wranglings about that. I hope that Members will vote on the amendments we have also put forward to the joint resolution. We are asking for a programme to follow up the European Year of Languages where we would also hope to see earmarking for lesser-used languages. We also want to see earmarking money for lesser-used languages within relevant existing programmes. This would formalise the procedure which already exists for example in the structural funds where structural funds are used to prop up lesser-used languages in some areas. It would simply formalise that procedure. We also want to see culture on a majority voting basis within the Council so that the Commission can present a programme specifically on lesser-used languages which I know the Commission has already. These are not radical proposals. I do not know why some Groups are resisting this and not supporting the 40 million people within the EU who speak lesser-used languages. But I hope this will be a first step and we will see an own-initiative report on this in future. I wish you: – a Happy Christmas and a Happy New Year. – Can I start by wishing the Commissioner a very happy St David’s Day. Thank you for the presentation. It is important that the Commission never loses sight of the fact that the reform process will be a complete waste of time unless it reconnects with the European public. That really has to be the sharp focus the whole time. It has to give a service to them and certainly the recommendations on cutting down on payment delays I am sure will be very welcome, but the other major complaint we get from the people we represent is paperwork. Excessive paperwork. Is there a reference to cutting down paperwork and bureaucracy for applicants to European funding whilst ensuring financial control? That is a clear complaint that we get. That needs to be addressed. The other question I would like to ask is on the audit progress committee. This, of course, is welcome, but it is essential it include a reference to the monitoring of recommendations that come from the European Parliament within our discharge procedure. Will you be adding that into your audit progress committee’s work? Finally, the Socialist Group agrees with activity-based budgeting and with responsibilisation and you will be judged, as Mr Prodi says, by your actions, not your words. – Mr President, I have to follow Mr Dell'Alba and Mr Heaton-Harris and this will be tough. I would like to congratulate Mrs Theato on her report and in particular for making the effort to come here as I know she is not feeling very well tonight. The report deals with the protection of the Community's financial interests and how we deal with that and these are the major questions. It is always the area where we see hugely inflamed headlines in the papers and we need to tackle these issues seriously otherwise we are going to continue with a largely Eurosceptic public like the people represented by Mr Heaton-Harris. We must not forget that 85% of the money is spent within the Member States and we must also not forget that Parliament’s and the Commission's role is to take a pan-European approach to these things. We must also remember that fraud also concerns money that is not collected, something that happens very often. We lose serious amounts of money because it is not collected by the Member States. It is interesting that several countries, however much they protest about fraud, still have not signed up to the Convention on the Protection of the Communities' Financial Interests. I put an amendment down to name these countries because it is about time they were named and shamed. We need to bring these countries out into the open to reveal their hypocrisy. It was quite interesting to hear what Mr Prodi said today because he sounded quite enthusiastic about the European public prosecutor which is quite a shift from what we have seen in the past. I must emphasise, from the point of view of the political group, the amendment that was tabled by Mr Bösch was critical of the report because it talked about concentrating on the institutions of the European Union, the public prosecutor being relevant only in that sense. – Mr President, first of all Mr Dell’Alba is certainly right with the first part of his question. The tone of the question when it was put seems very different from the tone that we are hearing now in the Chamber. First of all, we have to say that the White Paper reforms are progressing. They are progressing slowly but Rome was not built in a day and we must remember that. We all know that there is a timetable – one that we have all agreed to and must be kept. What I would like to address, before I look at the substance, is the question behind this question, – that is what we really have to look at here. It strikes me – and I will not be quite as subtle as Mr van den Berg – that the tone of this question seems to be the same tone as the Stauner report, the original Stauner report that was comprehensively rejected within the Budget Control Committee – the same tone that was set in the explanatory statement which was rejected by Parliament as a whole. We are all desperate to see reform but it will take time. The new Commission has been in office for only seven months. It was approved by the European Parliament by a huge majority. The question we really have to ask here is not to the Commission but to the PPE Group as to the motivation behind the question. It strikes me as being clearly politically motivated, trying to undermine the work done on reform, trying to shoot this new bird down before it has taken flight. This is because there is an element within the PPE Group, and I do not include Mr Pomés Ruiz in this, interested in wrecking the tactics of the Commission, wrecking Commission reform and wrecking the EU. And the PPE Group is being hijacked by that element within the group. I believe that this Commission is very open to taking on board some – I hope all – of Parliament’s concerns and criticisms, because we have criticisms too. But there is a time and place for that and this will be when we look at Mr Pomés Ruiz’ response to the White Paper. The PSE Group want to engage in a constructive debate because we are interested in the outcome of reform, not in scoring short-term political points that do nothing but damage the European Union. Turning very quickly to the substance of the questions: in the Commission hearings the European Parliament asked for rotation of A1 and A2 posts and to end national flags on senior jobs. The Commission has taken positive steps since they came into power, ensuring that appointments are made on the basis of merit. Of course, in a multinational institution, we must be sensitive to national considerations but these must be seen within the medium and long term. As the Commissioner said, you cannot take a snapshot halfway through. We should be interested in checking systems and not checking individuals. The role of the European Parliament is to keep the Commission on its toes. We want to see appointments on merit but that does not mean interfering and questioning every single senior appointment. I would like to make a quick point on improving the equal opportunities aspect of the Commission’s reform proposals. Mrs Hautala’s question was very well put and we also would like an answer to that. We do not currently think that the proposals go far enough in terms of gender mainstreaming and equal opportunities. On parts 3 and 4 of this oral question I understand that the Conference of Presidents agreed on April 6 that these two questions should be removed. That being the case, I would like to ask you, Mr President, to look into why the services had still not removed those parts today. That is a serious problem. The fact is that Commission reform is going ahead. Mr Prodi has made some announcements today as the head of the organisation. Again, most of it looks at mobility but I would like to ask the Commissioner why the role of the new post, Director of the Economic and Political Council, was not advertised. That is a post that we would like to have seen advertised. Finally, I would like to ask the PPE Group to refrain from such politically motivated and unconstructive questions as we have here. I am confident that Mr Pomés Ruiz will not take that attitude when he responds to the White Paper, but please do not let your group be hijacked by a minority. – Mr President, at last the Committee on Budgetary Control has decided to recommend granting discharge to the Commission. Throughout this procedure we have all been aware of the well-documented flaws in the accountancy system, which were first highlighted back in 1994. This has been of major concern to all the members of the committee. We cannot bury our heads in the sand, we have to face the problems head-on and this report does that. Mr Casaca has done a very good job. The reform of the accountancy system is essential. We have timetables, we have specifics about where the whole accounts reform process is going, but we must put this into a context. We are asking the Commission to introduce a system that not one country in the European Union has yet managed to accomplish, namely the introduction of a full accrual accounting system. We have to remember that context. We have demanded a lot of the Commission in this report, and European socialists have been leading the way in setting extremely stringent targets for the Commission to meet. As shown by the committee last week, nearly all the MEPs on the Committee on Budgetary Control have been responsive to the clear efforts made by the Commission to deliver our demands. The irony is that throughout this discharge procedure we have heard a lot of sound and fury from the right and the right-wing press, and yet all they could muster after all that was three measly votes in committee. Even people who represent parties such as the UK Independence Party, people such as Mr Camre and Mr Titford, who are vociferous in their criticism, could not be bothered to turn up for the vote. That shows that their objections are based on ideology, not on fact. That is something we have to bear in mind. The aim of most people in the Committee on Budgetary Control is to put proper controls in place. A couple of weeks ago we had to make a political judgement as to whether our support for the Commission would help or hinder future reform. We decided that postponing discharge would actually hold up the system. We are interested in delivery. Turning now to the Parliament discharge, we have to be very clear that we in Parliament cannot throw stones at the Commission and demand from them, for example, a certain level of transparency, if we are not willing to demand the same of ourselves. I would like to congratulate the Secretary-General and the President of the European Parliament on the way they have run the administration over the past three years. They pay full respect to financial regulation. It will be interesting to see how the decentralisation system works over the next year. But we cannot admonish the Commission for wasting taxpayers' money when we spend willy-nilly on things that are, frankly, a total waste of money. Every month thousands of parliamentary assistants and administrators leave Brussels to travel 400 miles to work here in Strasbourg. We have now established that travelling time alone wastes over 25 000 working days each year – EUR 3.9 million! Note must also be taken of how it discriminates against part-time workers, the majority of whom tend to be women. It is wholly unnecessary to use EUR 173 million each year in order to respect historical treaties. In the wider context, I have found that we spend over EUR 1 million on committee meetings held outside the seats of Parliament. We have also seen an increase in the amount of money spent on yellow weeks, that is, EUR 372 000. The right wing must listen. They are voting against all of these points about transparency within Parliament, and frankly they are a bunch of hypocrites! – Madam President, I am grateful too that the Council have come back because I have got something to say to them as well. Can I first of all thank Mr Karlsson because cooperation with the Committee on Budgetary Control this year has been much better than in previous years. Your work is crucial to our job because you are the experts and we then sort out the political problems. We must not forget that this report refers to the 1999 budget, the year when there was the forced resignation of the Commission, so it is clearly too early to judge yet. Next year will be the beginning of the real test as to whether the Commission's reform has started to bite at all. It is interesting to note that a key part of the Commission's reform is the whole question of who takes responsibility. Where does the buck stop? Who is responsible? We should today be assessing how the Commission and the Member States spend the money rather than assessing the work of the Court of Auditors. But I find that the work of the Court of Auditors has not been done sufficiently well to help us to do our job. Let us not forget, and I hope the Council once again is listening, that 80% of the money is spent in the Member States. The Court, as in other years, has failed to point out exactly where those failures occurred. We have asked time and time again for a 'sinners list'. We want to know where the problems lie, in which Member States, in which areas. We even want to know about good practice. You will note from one part of the report that two Member States have been exemplary in terms of VAT collection but how are other Member States supposed to copy these Member States if they do not know who they are. We need names. If you the Court will not do your job of naming and shaming, then we will have to do it for you. But your legitimacy as an auditing body will be questioned, and some might even suggest that some members of the Court are keen to protect the interests of Member States that nominated them. Will you make a commitment to do this in future, Mr Karlsson, because a lack of clear information in the report makes it very difficult for us to put pressure in the right areas on the worst offenders. I call on you also to publish a league table of those countries which have the worst record of maladministration in the EU and in what areas. Europe's taxpayers deserve to know where the money is going. Without the facts we are fighting fraud with one hand tied behind our back. Of course, there are no magic solutions to improving financial control in the Commission. The whole process will take time. We have a lot of vested interests to challenge but we will be watching next year's report for concrete evidence that the measures the Commission has put in place since its investiture have had a real impact in stamping out financial mismanagement. – Mr President, I, along with my Socialist colleagues very much welcome this report which underlines the work that we have done in the Budgetary Control Committee and really is built upon that. There are several very radical recommendations, not least the one that establishes the post of the European public prosecutor. Time and again many Eurosceptics have used fraud within the European Union institutions as a battering ram to beat us with. Of course any degree of maladministration and fraud must be weeded out. But this makes clear that 80% of the problem lies within the Member States themselves. The recommendation to establish a European public prosecutor, as proposed, would mean that there would be a mechanism to present criminal cases relating to EU fraud throughout the Union but it would not impinge on the jurisdiction of national courts. That is the way it has been written. It is sensitive to Member States’ worries. A series of shortcomings within the institutions have been identified in this report and recommendations are made here for correcting the problems. We look forward to developing the action programme for reform with the Commissioner responsible and although we have not had time to look at it in detail, I believe it would be fair to ask the Commissioner for a clear discussion and justification on why steps are not taken if some recommendations are left out. I am sure we will not agree with every single detail in this report but that would be a useful exercise nevertheless. The whole question of outside bodies doing work for the Commission is an area that needs clear attention. Whose responsibilities are the bureaus for technical assistance? Can we tighten-up the contracts granted to these bodies? How can we simplify procedures and make staff within the Commission more knowledgeable about tendering processes? The proposals outlined by Commissioner Kinnock in his hearing, in particular in the field of training, need more detailed response. We look forward to hearing more of his ideas over the next few months. I hope people will take time to read the report which clearly distinguishes between fraud and irregularity. The report states that of all the thousands of transactions which take place within the European Union institutions there are only 30 investigations involving Commission officials in fraud. Of course that is 30 too many, but the main cause of concern are the many examples of irregularities. This is an administrative problem, not a criminal issue. But measures are needed to tighten up the slack administrative practices, to rewrite poor regulations, to cut down complicated payment mechanisms, dispense with excessive exceptions and derogations which lead to the far too many irregularities and errors. It is these irregularities that give rise to alarmist headlines when we are presented with the Court of Auditors’ report on an annual basis. The report also correctly referred to the regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the European Community and points out that only three Member States have ratified the regulation. I am sure this report will give food for thought to those Member States that have not signed. It will be interesting to note how they respond in particular to the recommendation on the creation in each Member State of a national prosecution office for European offences. It is indeed appropriate that this report is published this week when we are about to decide on the fate of a new Commission. It is interesting in particular, in the light of recent events, that the Committee of Experts recommends that legal powers are given to allow the Commission President to sack individual Commissioners. This week we also received from the Commission a request on the supplementary and amending budget for money to establish the staff necessary to operate the new fraud office, OLAF. We would also concur with the report that specialised expertise is needed for these posts, and the need to make more effective use of information technology in intelligence gathering. The report itself should also be a lesson to us all within the European Union institutions. It has been clearly written, is really easily accessible and avoids jargon wherever possible. It is really a model on how to write European legislation. Having said that we welcome the move from ex ante to ongoing ex post control in the budget control mechanisms within the Commission. We would like to see that implemented. Again, we will have further discussions on that in the committee. We are at the dawn of a new era within the European Union institutions. We look forward to a time when officials are promoted on merit. We look forward to recruitment of people with appropriate expertise in specific sectors. We look forward to the commitments already made on whistle-blowers being implemented. But most of all we look forward to a time when every official and Member State Government responds to a new culture of responsibility. The next few months and years will be critical. But let us not forget that we have a base on which to build. The report is clear in its praise of the commitment and experience of most officials. From this week on a new chapter is being written. The plot is outlined in this report. It will be written by the Commission but Parliament will insist on strong editorial control. In partnership we can rebuild confidence in the institutions, not only for the people who work within them but most of all, for the people they serve. – Mr President, under the Treaties, Parliament has the right to be consulted on the appointment of members of the Court of Auditors. The Committee on Budgetary Control held hearings on 22 and 23 November and adopted by secret ballot a favourable opinion on each of the candidates. However I was disappointed, like Mrs Stauner, that we had very few members who were women. Of the eight candidates put forward by the Council only one was a woman. That will mean that as of next year, two of the Court's 15 members will be women, which is an improvement but still not enough. I would therefore appeal to the Member States to put their own house in order. I would also like to make some broader points about the composition of the Court of Auditors. The system of appointing one member to the Court of Auditors from each Member State will have to be reformed with enlargement. In the same way that the Commission and Parliament cannot be allowed to grow indefinitely, neither can the Court. That will be considered at the IGC. But in terms of the Court it is important to get away altogether from the system of appointments by nationality. The role of the Court is to examine all Community revenue and expenditure to see whether it has been spent in a lawful and regular manner and whether financial management has been sound. I see no reason why that role needs to be carried out by Member State appointees. That system is simply not sustainable in such an institution. Members of the Court should be appointed on the basis of their ability and specific skills, not on the basis of their nationality. There is a danger that Member States' appointees may still feel some loyalty to their national capitals and may be seen as trying to water down criticisms of their own Member States. What is needed is a court that is, and is seen to be, independent of Member States' interests. Ultimately that should mean a system where we appoint proper, qualified auditors to the Court. The events of the past year make it all the more important that we have a Court able to make criticisms where necessary, both of the Commission and of Member States, which, after all, are responsible for the management of about 85% of the funds. – Mr President, I would also like to pass on my best regards to Mr Karlsson, thank him for his presentation and all the work he has done over the past few years. I hope he will pass on our thanks to his other colleagues who are also leaving. We must remember that this report is the first report which assesses the first full year of the Prodi Commission – a Commission which, let us remind ourselves, was appointed with the specific remit of radical overhaul and reform of the European Union. The question we will be asking in our discharge procedure this year is: "Is the Commission delivering on that promise?". Let us be clear. If it is not, then the credibility of both the Prodi Commission and of this Parliament is on the line. It is much too early to assess the success or failure of the Prodi Commission and of Commission reform. The only question we can ask at this point is whether we are headed in the right direction. Mr Karlsson, I noted your words last night. There are a number of hopeful signs in this report. So, where the Commission has specific responsibility, we do seem to be seeing some positive developments. As you say, the strategy on BSE is basically sound. The work of the Agency charged with the reconstruction of Kosovo was efficient and economical. The reform programme is heading in the right direction. You have approved the recasting of the financial regulation and the Commission's proposals on financial incentives for top grade officials, although I note that you have some concerns about the Commission's accounting mechanisms. Perhaps Mrs Schreyer could comment on that. We are not going to let the Commission off the hook. There is a large area where the Commission has joint responsibility with the Member States, particularly in the agricultural sector and the structural funds. The primary responsibility must lie with the Member States. They are responsible for 85% of the budget. Here we see some serious structural weaknesses. In the structural funds, we see problems in the application of regulations at every level. The CAP accounts for over 40% of the budget and where Member States are responsible there is no improvement. Heads of stock continue be overstated. We know that Belgium, Denmark, Ireland and the Netherlands have not signed the Convention on the Protection of Financial Interests. We are disappointed, Mr Karlsson, that you did not mention them by name in the report. Again the Court has failed to give a statement of assurance to the Commission. As I said last night, this is a complicated and ever-changing procedure and I do not believe the Commission will ever get a statement of assurance. So the main message, as far as I can see, is that the Commission should keep going. It is on the right track. Member States must stop hiding behind the Commission and assume their proper responsibility of protecting EU taxpayers' money. – Mr President, on a point of order, I wondered whether Mrs Schreyer would say that it is realistic to expect the introduction of a full accrual accounting system by 2005. We obviously hope that will be the case, but the World Bank took four years. Could the Commissioner explain how she is going to meet a very tight timetable? – Mr President, this, as Mrs Theato said, is a critical report. It is a report that has been proposed by the Committee on Budgetary Control and it is an own-initiative report. One of the reasons why we were very keen to bring this forward was because, whether we like it or not, the European Union has a reputation for fraud and mismanagement. It is sometimes exaggerated but there it is. We need to do something about it. Some of the measures we have put in place in the past have not been honoured by some of the Member States – and let us not forget that the Member States are responsible for implementing about 80% of the EU budget. A lot of them have not signed up to or not ratified the Convention on the Protection of Financial Interests, and therefore it was clear that something more radical needed to be done. We need to take this responsibility seriously. We need to be able to prosecute people who commit fraud against the European Union. The question is: who prosecutes? That is where we really get into difficulty. Whose responsibility is it when you are dealing with a body that crosses so many frontiers? We need also to be sensitive to the concerns of Member States. The proposal to set up a European public prosecutor service is a very sensitive one. We are all aware that an all-out federal approach and a situation where a European judicial authority takes precedence over the national judicial authorities is a step too far for some people. But the discussion needs to begin and we are therefore calling on the IGC to start discussions. Of most importance to Parliament, as the guardian of the budget of the European Union, is how to deal with people who work within the European Union institutions. At a time when we are looking at the whole reform process it is critical that we send the right signal. People need to understand that if they commit fraud they will be prosecuted, and that is not the case at the moment. The whole question as to whether we have the legal authority to do this has been outlined by Mrs Palacio. I should like to make clear that my group is going to propose an amendment deleting the detail of how the Commission should tackle this question. We are aware that it is a delicate debate. We know that the Commission may perhaps need the scope to negotiate a situation which would be acceptable to all parties. Can I just make it clear that we have no commitment to a  here, no commitment to a federal European public prosecutor. But there is a definite commitment to change the status quo which is totally unacceptable. – Mr President, I am going to confine my comments to the general Commission discharge for 1998, which has taken on a highly political and divisive tone right from the start of our discussions. I feel that we have been through several rounds of a boxing match but ultimately the whole committee, including the rapporteur, said that discharge should be granted. Rather than stick with the hysterical, drum-beating report that the rapporteur produced, which, if truth be told, had little originality, no sense of direction and no suggestion on how to move ahead constructively, the committee decided back in March to postpone the discharge and to set out seventeen clear conditions which we expected the Commission to sign up to in the space of a couple of months. We were delighted that the rapporteur saw the error of her ways and supported our way of thinking. Round one to us, the anti-PPE alliance. The rapporteur then tried a fast left hook with her headline-grabbing explanatory statement. She lost. Round two to the anti-PPE alliance. The Commission responded constructively to most of the points we set out in March. The next Stauner report was in the same hysterical tone as the first round but this time we were ready for her. Round three to the anti-PPE alliance. We thought the fight was over, but no, we were in for more with the new explanatory statement. We have yet to see the result of that round but we are confident about the final knock-out round and we confidently predict what will happen on Thursday. The only real question that remains is why her name is still on the report. The truth is, we know that the Commission has a long way to go in getting its act together. The Court of Auditors was right in not giving its O.K. to the Commission expenditure in 1998, but we are willing now to give the Commission the benefit of the doubt. We think that this is a genuine attempt at reform and the Commission needs a certain amount of time to implement the necessary changes. We will keep an eye on the situation and make sure the Commission sticks to the promises it has made. For example, the promise to cut the number of errors is a major promise but it will not happen unless we have the commitment and the resources to go with it. Commissioner, can you assure us that particularly in the areas of high risk, agriculture, structural funds and research, we will see more checks rather than fewer, as happened in 1998? Will we see significantly more resources for auditing within the DGs in cooperation with the internal audit service? Can you give us these figures, please? You know, Commissioner, that one area where we were dissatisfied with your answers was in response to lessons learned from Fléchard. We know from the Court of Auditors, unlike Mrs Stauner, that we cannot get the money back. Will you make a commitment though to cooperate fully with our internal inquiry committee and give us the information we request? Finally, I hope that in our committee, we will be able to stop fighting each other and get on with fighting fraud. .Mr President, this relates to the situation we have with the Council. The Budget Control Committee requested information from the Council on the common foreign and security policy. Initially, the Council was reluctant to provide this information which is why the text, as it stands at the moment, postpones discharge for the Council. Late last night, however, following a meeting of the Council Finance Ministers, they agreed to answer the questions by Friday of this week. Due to this change in the situation, and as I wish to avoid a clash with Council if at all possible, I would like to propose an oral amendment to Amendment No 4, which has now not been withdrawn. This amendment is almost identical to the oral amendment relating to Amendment No 3: "Is grateful for the answers that, in principle, the Council has agreed to provide to questions relating to aspects of the common foreign and security policy within seven days". I would therefore urge that we first vote on Amendment No 4, with the oral amendment, and if this falls, we then have to vote on Amendment No 3 And I wish to indicate that if this should happen, I withdraw paragraph 3e. I am sorry if it is a bit complicated but it is because of the changing situation. Mr President, I was asked earlier on today by one of my colleagues for a rebuttal of the allegations of fraud in the European Union, and so I started off with a great surge of energy, mentioning that 80% of the EU’s budget is spent within the Member States, and most fraud occurs within the Structural Funds and agriculture. So I started off well, but then I suddenly had to slow up because I thought about the kinds of cases that have been in the papers recently – the Eurostat case obviously springs to mind. The problem there is that there  a scandal going on and it is difficult to rebut it. The Commission sat on the report, the General Audit Service did not open the box and look at the report and we have to ask why Mr Solbes did not keep a closer eye on his department. I can rebut it by saying that the procedures for stopping this kind of thing were already in place, but the departments were overworked and there was no time for the system to work through. It was during the early days of the reform process. It is important, however, that we do not continue to allow the Directors-General to take all the responsibility. We have to see political responsibility by individual commissions. They have to shoulder this. It may be worth people taking note of the outcome of the Hutton report today: we have seen the BBC found guilty of incompetence. It is interesting that it is not the Director-General of the BBC who has gone, but the Chairman of the BBC. It is the political head – not the administrative head. We should bear that in mind and think about what that means in this context. The accounting system has also, of course, come in for criticism and I could explain at this point that there are only two countries in the whole of the European Union that have implemented the kind of accrual accounting system that we want to see. This Parliament and the Court of Auditors, however, asked the Commission to get on with it. Of course, we must also look internally at the kinds of problems we have here in Parliament. We are just about to enter an electoral campaign and many of us are enthusiastic about the whole European Union ideal, but we have to sell it in the face of a really difficult press, so you must help us to do more to counteract these allegations of fraud. – Mr President, since we are all having a go at the common agricultural policy, I too would like to state a few facts in relation to it. In the UK this weekend there was a huge rally – Liberty and Livelihood – where thousands of people gathered in London to protest at various problems relating to the countryside. What this rally did not put across, however, was the way that the countryside is massively subsidised. Agriculture in particular is very heavily subsidised compared to every other industry in the European Union. When we see 40% of the EU budget going to 5% of the EU population then the policy is clearly in need of radical reform. It seems strange to me, however, that within this reform process two areas are not being touched upon. These are the scandal of the EU sugar market, where extortionate prices throughout the EU enable people to take advantage of what I believe to be a very corrupt regime, and also the scandal of the tobacco industry, the existence of which people are bound to feel is an absolute contradiction at a time when the European Union is also trying to promote health initiatives. These are key areas. But the most important issue here today is transparency. Why is it that, while I can go to a website and find out where every single euro in relation to regional policy and Structural Funds is paid out in my area, I cannot do the same in relation to the common agricultural policy? That possibility does not exist and it is a possibility I want to see created. That is the relationship the taxpayers of Europe need to have with the recipients of this funding: in that way perhaps we will be able to see how much Prince Charles, the Queen and the rest of the royal family receive in relation to subsidies granted under the common agricultural policy. We need to crack this open. It is crucial that we get the support of the people who call repeatedly in this House for transparency. That is what we are asking for. The Commission needs to cooperate much more closely with Member States across the whole of the European Union to ensure that this is the case. – Mr President, I have recently started to take a keen interest in waste issues, not simply because of the environmental needs of saving our planet's resources, but also because I represent Wales, a region which has one of the worst records on waste in the EU. 97% of our waste is landfilled. At last the people in my country are starting to take the issue seriously, but coming from such a long way behind we need to be realistic about how quickly countries such as the UK and Spain can catch up with nations such as Germany which have already set the pace. It will take years for the UK to approve the planning permission that will be necessary to build the plants in order to meet these targets. It will take years for local authorities to follow public procurement rules. It will take huge efforts to persuade the public to separate their rubbish and it will take ages to develop a market for recyclets. That is why we need an extra two years to implement the rule change as agreed in committee. I am delighted to see that the Council of Ministers have agreed to set relatively high standards in the whole area of recovery and recycling. I am pleased to see that the committee has agreed to the suggestion of harmonising data collection in this field, so we can be really sure we are comparing like with like across Member States. We must put pressure on business to reduce unnecessary packaging. We have seen time and time again that voluntary agreements in the business world are rarely honoured. That is why a compulsory reduction in packaging for goods should be agreed to. An environmental indicator to measure packaging has certain merits, but so far no one has managed to explain to me exactly how this would work and I therefore have reservations about writing into European law a system that does not yet exist. I hope that we all take our responsibilities seriously. The governments need to take their responsibility for waste seriously, but so do all of us as individuals. – Mr President, you have a major task ahead of you and nobody is more aware of that than the Budget Control Committee. The number one priority must be the reform agenda. If you fail to deliver on this then we will all judge you very harshly and will in fact all suffer as a result. But as Mr Kinnock said yesterday, you will be judged on your deeds and not on your words. On behalf of the Socialists in the Budget Control Committee, I would like to comment specifically on Mr Kinnock’s presentation at the hearing. Mr Kinnock’s record within the Commission is second to none and we accept fully his commitment to accept collective responsibility in terms of past problems whilst agreeing that he bears no individual guilt. Performance and management of the transport directorate has been exemplary and we believe that with his experience of modernising the Labour Party in the UK, he has the relevant qualification to undertake this work. If you can turn the Labour Party around from the lamentable state it was in the 1980s to getting us to a position in the 1990s where we swept everything away, then you must really be able to perform miracles. We note the Commission’s commitment to the reform agenda and, in particular, Mr Prodi, your commitment to consult the European Parliament on the reform programme. We expect this to be before its presentation in February. We note the commitment to consult us on the reform of the Staff Regulations which addresses some of Mr Elles’ concerns, the new commitments given to whistleblowers and the need to develop new disciplinary procedures. The idea of giving legal effect to the codes of conduct once established is also something we welcome and the overhaul of the Commission’s management and control systems. We expect active consultation with Parliament at all times and we have no doubts that the Commissioner will fulfil his commitment on that score. We do have concerns that the Commission must respect the independence of OLAF. We will not allow you to play budgetary games on this issue. This is the beginning of the reform process and we now look forward to some action. – Mr President, I strongly support the principle that high quality and reasonably priced public transport should be available in all areas. However, this report is particularly important to my constituency, Wales, due to issues relating to concessionary travel. The Welsh National Assembly has introduced a scheme, which will come into force next spring, whereby local bus travel will be free for all pensioners in all areas of Wales. The scheme would offer free bus passes and free travel on local buses and would theoretically enable pensioners to travel throughout Wales if they wanted to without paying a penny. Whilst I appreciate the importance of ensuring that groups such as disabled people, schoolchildren and trainees are also eligible for reduced cost public transport, it would be ridiculous to undo the good work the National Assembly has done for pensioners in Wales by preventing pensioners enjoying concessionary travel under this regulation. I am pleased that the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has already voted to abolish the ceiling on concessionary fares that was proposed by the Commission, thereby protecting these pensioners in Wales. – Mr President, I welcome the fact that at last, we are discussing this report. I would condemn the other groups for not allowing us to discuss this in November: That was a wrong decision. It was outrageous that we did not allow the Court to have a press conference. We lost the opportunity of an important public platform. I was also extremely disappointed that the President of the Court of Auditors did not remain in Brussels earlier this month. The report proves beyond all doubt that the reform process is long overdue. We need radical reforms if we are to see improvement of a very serious situation. This is the fifth time the Commission has not given a statement of assurance and it is clear that the Commission needs to understand that it is engaged in reform and it will be judged not by its words and its reports, but by its actions. It is clear that in efforts to reform itself, the Commission needs to concentrate not on where the money is spent but the extent to which policy goals are met, and that with a minimum cost. As Mr Karlsson said, we need to tackle the spending culture. That means we need clear, precise and measurable goals from the Commission. In my own country of Wales we receive significant money from the structural funds, but the line between creating a job and safeguarding a job is unclear and therefore it is difficult for us to assess how effective those structural funds have been. The Commission needs to make fundamental improvements to its own internal control mechanisms. One of the main problems, highlighted again, is that of passing the buck. Nobody is taking responsibility and the responsibility for spending money well is shared between too many people. That clearly needs to be reformed. We expect to see rigorous new management and control systems in the forthcoming reform. In particular, we need to see a reform of the Financial Regulation. But let us not forget that over 85% of the money that comes from the EU budget is spent within the Member States and they need to put their own house in order. Human resources is also an issue which clearly needs to be addressed. This report has vindicated the forced resignation of a sloppy, slapdash Commission and revealed a catalogue of irresponsibility by Member States who are prepared to criticise but not act on fraud and irregularities. The new Commission is heading in the right direction and we hope that we will see an end to these kinds of reports. We can put them behind us once we see an improvement in terms of the reform process. I should like to finish by putting a clear question to Mr Karlsson: does he personally think there is anything specific in the 1998 report which should stop Parliament from granting discharge? – Regional and lesser-used languages of the European Union. – Mr President, I just wanted to ask a few questions. I am sorry I was not here at the beginning. First of all, do you not think that Mr Heaton-Harris is giving a green light to fraudsters? In the past five years only two people have been prosecuted for fraud against the EU. If he does not come up with any alternatives, it is effectively giving the green light. I wonder if you could comment on that. Secondly, how do you convince those Member States which are resistant to the concept of European Public Prosecutor, for example my own country which, in my opinion, is misguided on this point? Thirdly, how will the European Public Prosecutor be appointed? And, fourthly, do you not agree that it is important not to proceed too quickly and do you accept also that this proposal is not enough? In other words, Eurojust will simply not work. . – The European Parliamentary Labour Party believes that, as MEP's, we have a duty to protect EU taxpayers' money. We believe that the piecemeal approach to tackling fraud within the EU has been insufficient, and, whilst agreeing with the establishment of Eurojust, OLAF, strengthening the Court of Auditors and fraud-proofing legislation, we do not believe that these measures will tackle the problem of prosecution of EU fraud. The role of the European Public Prosecutor should be restricted strictly to that of protecting EU finances. We do not believe in the establishment of a European judicial area. The role of the European Public Prosecutor should be to coordinate the prosecution, but the prosecution itself should be passed on to the Member States, who should have an obligation to prosecute. Despite reservations on certain details contained in the Green Paper, we believe that it is important to allow for the possibility of establishing the European Public Prosecutor before enlargement takes place, and the added complications of prosecuting fraud in ten extra countries. If we are serious about protecting the financial interests of the EU, we must accept that the current system is not working, and until we have an alternative on the table we must go along with this report. – I would like to raise as a point of order the fact that the Quaestors have made a recommendation that during constituency weeks next year MEPs should be allowed a daily allowance if they are in Brussels. I would like to urge you, Madam President and the Bureau members – I understand this is coming on your agenda very soon – to think very carefully before taking this decision because constituency weeks are a very good idea. There is a desperate need for MEPs to communicate with the electorate in a much more effective way. The fact that we had such a poor turnout in the European elections proves that this is the case and, if we allow people to sign in during constituency weeks, we are undermining the whole point of them. We are giving fuel to the Eurosceptics who think that we are pumping up our own expenses and we look like hypocrites at a time when we are asking the Commission to reform. Madam President, I urge you and the Bureau members to consider this issue very carefully and turn down the request by the Quaestors. – Mr President, I also congratulate Mr Bösch on his report. He is the acknowledged expert within the European Parliament and, to a large extent, was the architect of the new OLAF. One thing that is certain to create a stir in terms of the EU is big stories about fraud. They always get big coverage. That is quite right too because any fraud is unacceptable. The figure that is being attached to it is about 5% of the EU budget. But there are two important points to remember, which have been touched upon several times here today – and Mr Cunha has just raised them again. The Court of Auditors does not distinguish between fraud and administrative and financial irregularities; that is, administrative mistakes and people who set out to cheat the EU of money. To give you an example, a farmer may fill out a form incorrectly. That is not to say that he means to defraud. It may be that he measured his land incorrectly. And then there are the big fraudsters: the people who, for example, import cigarettes illegally, avoiding tax. There is a huge difference between these two things. We need to have them distinguished much more clearly. Let us not forget that 80% of the fraud takes place within Member States. Yesterday the Commission made a commitment to us that they want to cut irregularities by 2%. We want to know whether the Member States will follow that lead. It is clear that a lot of the problems lie there, in particular with the Structural Funds. To take up Mr Dell'Alba's point, the Socialists will be voting against a number of paragraphs in this report, not necessarily because we do not agree with them, but because it is not the right context in which to discuss these points which relate to the White Paper. Finally, I want to read out a list of shame – Member States which have not yet ratified the Convention on the Protection of the Financial Interests of the EU: Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Greece, Ireland and France. It is about time they signed up. They have had five years to do it. Let us see them ratify it. – Mr President, I must start by apologising that I cannot be nearly as dramatic as Mr Elles in my presentation. Can I first thank Mr van Hulten for this report. It is an excellent report. It would have been wrong for Parliament to have put in willy nilly every single recommendation that came from an external body because Parliament should have its own opinion on these issues. It is right for us to have a focused report which is what Mr van Hulten has produced. Can I invite Mr Elles not to put the cart before the horse. Yes, a lot of things were lost by the Socialists but they have not been won in plenary yet, and may I warn him that may not be the case tomorrow. I should like to thank Commissioner Kinnock for all his efforts so far. He has been clear that his commitment has been to produce a radical change. Central to this is the attempt to produce and engender responsibility. It is clear that this needs to be developed at all levels and it needs to recognise the needs of each level within the Commission. It is clear that we need to see a change in the Financial Regulation. That is important. We need to stop people passing the buck from one to another. Where failure is occurring within the Commission we need to hold people responsible. We need to be assured that consistent under-performance must lead to dismissal. This is natural elsewhere but it seems to be an extremely radical suggestion when it is put to the Commission. We cannot continue with a situation where incompetence, mismanagement and fraud are costing the European taxpayers money and providing them with a poor service. I will give you one example of this. In the 1998 Court of Auditors report an exchange rate miscalculation in relation to Italian wine cost the taxpayers of Europe GBP 8 to 10 million. It is clear that is not acceptable. What happened to the person who was responsible for that miscalculation? We need a system which provides incentives and promotion and we need to see this promotion based on merit. We recognise that most of the officials within the Commission are extremely hard-working. But we also recognise that some of the practices are outdated. We look forward to reading the full Commission proposal on reform and we look forward to working out the detail alongside the Commission because, unlike what Mr Elles has just said, the Commissioner has made a commitment to discuss it with Parliament between now and 1 March. We also need to recognise that people who live in glasshouses should not throw stones. The European Parliament has not exactly been clean in its approach to things throughout its history. We have a long way to go before we are perfect ourselves. Our own staff policy is outdated. Some of our working practices need radical reform. I hope that the European Parliament will be hanging onto the coattails of the Commission in this reform process. We recognise the proposals on activity-based budgeting. We recognise that means discipline on the part of Commission officials and we recognise also that we have a responsibility within Parliament on discipline when we talk about negative priorities. Finally, can I say that the Commission needs to work on its relationships with the public. European taxpayers need to be re-assured. The fate of the Commission, of the whole European Union, rests on delivery of this reform. That is the key issue, delivery of these proposals. – Mr President, I am sure the Commission will be relieved to hear that the 97 discharge is unlikely to have the same impact as the 96 discharge which, as you are all so very well aware, led to the forced resignation of the Santer Commission. The Socialist Group will be voting to grant discharge. I am sure you will be relieved to hear that as well. But that is not to say that we are satisfied, and that everything in the garden is rosy. It is clear that a radical overhaul of the Commission is long overdue. It indicates, however, that we acknowledge that steps are being made in the right direction. I just want to outline some of the issues that we, as Socialists, have put down as amendments. We hope these will be carried because they are important in the way that they will impact on future reform. First of all, the immunity of officials: this should be lifted if and when requested by a national prosecutor. We need to make it much easier to prosecute officials who are guilty of fraud and corruption. It is critical to note that the Commission has too often failed to act on the reforms recommended by the Court of Auditors. The Court's report is there for a reason, our response to it is there for a reason and it is important that it is followed through. I have just heard now that an audit progress board is going to be set up by the Commission. Even if we hear nothing else, we know that is going in the right direction in terms of the reforms that we want to see. Too often we have put forward recommendations and they have not been acted upon even though you have said very often that you will act on them. We want to see that follow-through to a much greater extent in future. The other issue is access to confidential documents. We have had problems in the past in terms of our responsibility in carrying out discharge because we have not had access to the documents we should have had. We understand that we also have a responsibility here, that if we are given documents we must ensure that confidential documents will indeed be kept confidential. We have put down an amendment to that effect. One issue which is referred to in the van der Laan report is the whole question of the Gaza hospital. The situation there is totally unacceptable. We will not put up with it for much longer and we are looking for immediate action on that issue. I would like to congratulate Lousewies van der Laan. I do not usually bother congratulating people but I think she has produced a very cogent report and deserves our thanks. – Mr President, I wish to thank Mrs van der Laan for giving the Committee on Budgetary Control and the European Parliament a model on which to base future discharge reports. From the outset she was very clear that she wanted to concentrate on a few areas where we wanted to see real improvement. They were clearly set out last year. Now we have a follow-up to check that those points have been implemented. We shall be following her lead in not supporting the amendments tabled because we want to keep to that clear-cut approach. On the whole, the Commission has responded positively, and this now has to be set within the context of the more general Commission reform. We are pleased that the Commission will present annual activity reports for each Directorate-General but, for that to work effectively, we need to know the targets for these DGs very soon. Work on staff policy has also gone ahead but things seem to be moving very slowly. We appreciate the sensitivity of negotiations on staff issues but we and the European public will soon lose patience if the talking does not stop soon and the action start. The CAP and Structural Funds are the areas where most mismanagement problems lie in the EU, partly due to the scale of the finance received by these areas. That is why it is critical that we, as the controlling and accountable body, have access to information on the financial management of these two areas. We look forward to receiving regular reports from the Personal Representatives Group. External aid, however, is an area where we still see substantial problems. The rapporteur has referred clearly to the disastrous way the aid to Palestine was handled, which gives a very poor signal at a time when the utmost political delicacy and sensitivity were needed in that region. Another Court of Auditors' report on external aid has come out very recently and we shall be looking at that in the future. Once again, I thank the rapporteur and congratulate her on a job well done. . – It has been a historic year in many ways, as the Commission, I am sure, would rather forget some of the more dramatic moments back in the spring, in the same way as some of us would rather forget some of the more dramatic election results of the summer! But let us not forget why the Commission was forced to resign: fraud and mismanagement, those were the main points. That is why this year's budget really had to reflect the need to tighten up procedures for budget control; and as the rapporteur for the 2000 budget, and on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, I would like to welcome once again the establishment of the new body to fight fraud and the new OLAF posts reflected in this year's budget. The process of appointing the OLAF director is now well advanced. The Committee on Budgetary Control held hearings with the candidates and produced a shortlist of three people, and I understand that tonight there will be a meeting to try to thrash out a decision between the representatives of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. Let us not forget that the technical assistance offices were also a big problem in the forced resignation of the Commission. The Commission's strategic issues paper adopted on 10 December concluded that core public service tasks should not be outsourced and that the Commission should have at its disposal a much more flexible set of arrangements for non-core public service tasks. That is something with which I wholeheartedly agree. The Commission now performs such a wide variety of diverse functions that non-core public service tasks could be carried out in very many different ways. There is no point in having a one-size-fits-all model for carrying out such tasks. What we need to do is to reform the Staff Regulations so we can have flexibility in hiring contractual staff to service these offices. . – I very much support the measures outlined in this report to prevent a future outbreak of foot and mouth disease on the scale experienced in the United Kingdom, and the West Midlands region I represent. Mr Kreissl-Dörfler's report provides important guidelines should future legislation be required to tackle a new outbreak, were it to occur anywhere across the European Union. I do, however, reject a number of the report's observations and conclusions which are incorrect, in particular those relating to the legality of culls, suggested breaches of animal welfare legislation, suggested breaches of environmental legislation and suggested bio-security lapses. Given that farmers have claimed for 6.5 million animals, I also reject the claim that 10 million were killed during the outbreak. Despite the many positive aspects of the report, I will vote against in the light of the above comments. – Mr President, on a point of order. I would like to respond to Mr Perry's challenge and confirm that all the Labour members in the European Parliament are committed to socialist principles! The complexity of the IGC process inevitably requires a complex response from the European Parliament. The Dimitrakopoulos/Leinen report covers a wide range of issues which could be considered in the framework of the IGC which is taking place over the remainder of 2000. The debate which has begun between Member States is reflected in the points of view expressed within the European Parliament, as is the tension over the scope of the IGC. The European Parliamentary Labour Party believes that it is imperative to conclude the IGC before the end of 2000 in order to leave the EU fully prepared for enlargement. In order to achieve this, we believe that the scope of the IGC should be restricted to "tidying up" the outstanding points from Amsterdam, plus a small range of other issues. EPLP Members voted in accordance with this approach, reflecting our concerns over the following areas: There are doubts over the practicability of a European top-up list from 2009 of 10% of MEPs to be elected on a single European constituency. We have concerns over the workings of a European Public Prosecutor's office whilst being concerned to protect the Union's interests and resources against fraud throughout Community territory. Likewise, the legislative measures in criminal matters in respect of fraud damaging the interests of the Union will need to be carefully constructed. The EPLP believes that unanimity cannot solely be restricted to constitutional items, as issues including tax and social security must be dealt with at national level. Constitutionalising the Treaties and division into two parts is not acceptable to the EPLP, and the same concerns about unanimity apply here. The EPLP wishes to see a Charter of Fundamental Rights, but until the content of the Charter is determined, the question of giving it binding legal force should be left open. Whilst greater coordination is required at European level over our airspace (i.e. Eurocontrol), service provision should remain at national level – the Commission has never suggested a single agency and Eurocontrol already exists to coordinate. The Commission has not previously called for the establishment of a single European air traffic control agency and the request in this report is superfluous. – I would like to commend this second reading to the House. It is very much about prosperity, and about creating jobs in the European Union, particularly for our small and medium-sized enterprises, by creating a better business climate for those businesses. Paradoxically, I do not want this report to be used. In fact I would like to see it go out of fashion very quickly indeed. This sort of Directive should be changing the climate of our business economy, away from late payment to prompt payment. We actually want a culture in this European Union, in our single market, of prompt payment, not late payment. I would like to place on record a number of thanks before I address the substance of our second reading: thanks to Parliament's services for working so quickly on this report; to the Commission for all its support; and to the Finnish Presidency for the courteous and careful advice it has given through this process. Thanks also to colleagues on the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy with whom I have worked very closely, several of whom I see here in this Chamber this evening. In particular, thanks to UEAPME who are very much the voice of small businesses in the European Union and who have given wholehearted support to this proposal. One further vote of thanks is also due, and that is actually to a ghost of this Chamber: that is, to my former colleague and good friend Lyndon Harrison, who was rapporteur at first reading, now Lord Harrison of Chester. It was Lyndon Harrison who, as rapporteur on 16 September 1998, said to this House: "It is time to outlaw cheating practices and give small and medium-sized enterprises the confidence to go boldly into the single European market knowing that they will be paid on time and in full." I could not agree more. I have to say, from our position as a Parliament, that the Council's common position was a disappointment – especially when you consider that we share the same aim. Yet because we share the same aim, and because there is goodwill on both sides, I am confident that we will have an effective and efficient directive that will eventually be adopted. However, it is important to point out that there are large areas of difference between us. These include the rate of statutory interest to be charged when a late payment occurs; the length of the trigger period for interest if no contract has actually stipulated a payment period; retention of title in the course of late payment; the role of the public sector and the treatment of public procurement; and compensation claims arising from late payment. All these areas are very difficult and could cause problems between Parliament and Council. Nevertheless, it is my belief that they are integral to our aim and are broadly safe and sound, and will help create a better business climate for small and medium-sized enterprises as they develop to realise their full potential within the single market. Shortly after I was elected to this House, Mr President, one of my first pleasurable duties was to bring to the Parliament representatives from Dudley Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which was then in my constituency. They came to a hearing on late payments that was being organised in the Parliament and gave some very good expert advice, recognising that we had problems with late payment in the single market. Those problems have actually got worse, which is why we currently have a directive and a proposal before us this evening. The importance of this directive is that it will help us address that business climate, to have a cultural change so that we move away from late payment to prompt payment as the norm within the European single market and not, as it currently is, the other way around. The small and medium-sized enterprises of the European Union are watching very closely to see how we react to this particular proposal and the common position. They will expect from this House tomorrow a strong vote backing the vote that was carried in the Industry Committee unanimously on Monday of this week. With those opening remarks, Mr President, I would commend our position to you. – Mr President, what you have just said has given us a lot of comfort and security. However, it gave the impression that the guarantee was only for Members of this House. For us the choice is to come or not; for the staff who work here the choice is somewhat different. I would hope that you could ensure that guarantee extends to everybody. I take your point on the different systems working. Nevertheless, this is such a serious issue. It has been raised in my own group whether the trade unions – the workers' representatives here – were consulted and informed in this important process. – Madam President, I should like to add my congratulations to Commissioner Prodi's programme. I particularly welcome his recognition of this virtuous circle of having sustained growth: the information society in an expanding European market with the addition of a fully functioning single currency which will give us the opportunity to genuinely promote prosperity, innovation enterprise, the entrepreneurial spirit and yes – most importantly of all – extra-high value sustainable jobs for our European citizens. I have one observation, not a criticism, to make regarding Commissioner Prodi's statement this morning and that is that it was a little weak on the actual content of economic policy. We must not take anything for granted in terms of how we get the European economy restructured. After all, what is social justice if it is without full employment? Full employment is the best way to generate social justice for our citizens. This is a key priority for us to focus on. I should like to welcome one or two initiatives that have already come from the Commission which will help us: in particular Commissioner Liikanen's commitment to having an innovative knowledge-driven economy. Yes, e-Europe will be the future for us because it will help us create new prosperity and new jobs. I welcome the Commission initiatives now and in the past to support our small and medium-sized enterprises and I would like to congratulate our Portuguese Presidency for its initiative on having a charter for micro-businesses. That is important and something that can be developed through the Lisbon Summit. I also welcome Commissioner Busquin's idea to have a common research area for the whole of the European Union. Again, this is a way that we can help create better opportunities for jobs and for prosperity. You said in your summary, Commissioner Prodi, that liberalisation, competitiveness, keeping inflation low, innovation, science and technology are central for the future success of the European economy and creating jobs. I very much agree with you on that, but we can take nothing for granted. There is still more we have to do, and the Lisbon Summit will become part of that. So with those remarks I would like to congratulate you on the programme and wish it every success. – Madam President, on a point of order. In a letter I sent to you on 1 September, I referred to various allegations in the British Press about one Member of this House, Mr Hannan, and the fact that he is alleged to have raised over GBP 100 000 for the ‘no’ campaign in the Danish referendum on the euro. Could you launch an investigation into this matter to establish that Mr Hannan did not use Parliament premises or the staff to which he is entitled as a Member of this House to raise that money? Could you also ensure that Mr Hannan states the position in his declaration of financial interests in advance of the referendum in Denmark so that the citizens of that country can see where the money came from? – Madam President, clearly the House will want to make its own decision on this very important issue but I should like to stress that at no point has the British Government not accepted that this is a crisis facing not just British farming and rural communities but potentially the whole of the farming industry in the European Union. However, the outbreak is not out of control, as the remarks by some people here might give the impression. Indeed, when Commissioner Byrne spoke in front of the House, he congratulated the UK Government on its swift, direct handling of this issue. Cooperation is continuing to take place between the British Government and the relevant authorities in the Commission and throughout the Union, to ensure that the outbreak is controlled, contained and eradicated as soon as possible. –This report deals with the protection of the financial interests of the European Union. It is clear that current methods put in place to prosecute people who have committed fraud against the EU finances are inadequate. For example, only 5 Member States have ratified the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the EU despite having made a commitment to do so over five years ago. The Conservative government did not sign, but the Labour government has recently joined with Germany, Austria, Finland and Sweden in ratifying the agreement. In the week when the Commission is outlining its reform proposals, and emphasising the need to change the culture within the Commission, the EPLP recommended through its voting that officials who do transgress will be prosecuted. The current system of prosecuting officials who transgress does not work, and that is why we support the view that a European Public Prosecutor should be set up  for people who work within the EU institutions. We have clearly voted against any proposal on the European Public Prosecutor which goes beyond this, and have categorically voted against any reference to Corpus Juris. Through our voting, we have shown that the EPLP is intolerant of fraud within the EU institutions, and challenge others who have voted against this report to explain how they expect to win the fight against fraud within the EU institutions. –The Van Hulten Report is a vital contribution to the work on EU reform and the work being undertaken by Commissioner Kinnock. An efficient and dynamic Commission is a pre-requisite for an enlarged European Union. Protection of the EU's financial interests is an integral part of the reform agenda. The European Parliamentary Labour Party, whilst agreeing that there is a need to improve the protection of the EU's financial interests, believes that the three stage approach towards a European Public Prosecutor contained in the report is not the way to proceed, and far more detailed discussions will be needed to find a means to tackle fraud which is effective in all Member States. The EPLP only supports the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor as mentioned in Paragraph 38 to enable information to be provided to facilitate the prosecution, by national courts, of those who defraud the taxpayer. The EPLP also believes that the setting-up of a Committee on Standards in Public Life would benefit all the institutions of the European Union, including the European Parliament. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Schwaiger. While stressing that we must have a WTO Millennium Round that is as comprehensive as possible so that everybody can get something out of it, there are three issues I would like to draw attention to. I am very pleased that Parliament, the Commission and the Council have highlighted animal welfare in their presentations. It is an important issue for citizens, it is an important issue for many of us here in this House and it is important that it is debated at Seattle. I think we must also learn the lessons of the multilateral agreement on investments. Yes, it will be possible for competition and investment to be dealt with at Seattle, but it is important that they are dealt with in a transparent and open way. The WTO must explain to its citizens what it is doing or it will run the risk of undermining support for free trade. It is equally important that as broad as possible a consultation is actually put in place to enable the different points of view to be heard and to be understood when we deal with competition and investment. And, thirdly, there is the dispute settlement system itself. It was an undoubted success of the Uruguay Round, but there are problems associated with it. Seattle must close those loopholes, again on the basis of transparency and greater certainty about the rights and obligations of all those involved in the dispute settlement system. That will offer us a key potential for unlocking world trade. In conclusion we must never lose sight of the fact that globalisation is very much about human issues, it is about standards of living, the environment, cultural, moral and ethical issues. Some fear the WTO, some fear globalisation, some fear the advance of growth, markets, technology and science. But I believe by working together openly with the common goal of raising the quality of life for the whole world, we can actually confound the critics of globalisation and show that globalisation and liberalisation can genuinely be a decisive force for good. –The European Parliamentary Labour Party has abstained on the final vote on the Leinen Dimitrakopoulos Report. The text is overambitious, and Britain’s Labour MEPs believe that the IGC should primarily deal with the “Amsterdam left-overs” in order to prepare for enlargement, and not expand far beyond these. There is currently a great deal of work under way in terms of reform and this must be the priority for the moment to allow consolidation and strengthening of the EU institutions. Expansion of the agenda and drastic revision of the treaties would bring with it a risk of de-stabilisation. The key factor in this text as it has been amended, is the call for a Charter of Fundamental Rights to be incorporated into the treaties. In our view, this would bring with it a complex legislative burden, and it would be preferable to have a political and declaratory charter which explains to citizens what their existing rights are. Our priorities (i.e. the “left-overs”) must be: -the number and responsibilities of Commissioners -weighting of votes in the Council -extension of QMV in areas where it will benefit the UK and Europe (but not Treaty change, defence matters, border controls or taxation), and extension of codecision wherever QMV is extended Beyond this, we have concerns that the “flexibility” or enhanced cooperation suggestion is not appropriate at present. The provisions of Amsterdam are largely untested and allowing more scope for opt-outs could weaken the EU at the time when enlargement is being considered and applicant countries are being asked to sign up to single market and other European legislation. – Madam President, I have no comment to make. That was a procedural matter not actually related to the report itself. We should vote. – What British farmers, and in particular farmers in the English West Midlands region that I represent, are looking for is a speedy resolution to this particular problem. The scientific committee has clearly demonstrated its belief that British beef is as safe as any other beef anywhere in the European Union and under those circumstances I am sure that the Commissioner would agree with me that a delay of perhaps another few days only is better than two or three years going through courts which ultimately frustrates everybody, satisfies nobody and in particular does not satisfy British farmers who have followed the rule of law, have done what has been asked of them and are now in a position to sell an excellent product throughout the whole of the European Union. What I would like the Commissioner to go through just one more time again here now for total clarity is his belief that this delay will only be a few days and that at the very latest he envisages this process being completed by the Tuesday of the Strasbourg session, and preferably before. – Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Gutíerrez for his speech tonight and also for his Lisbon initiative, which is very important to us. If we are honest, we must admit that it has been a very long road from Luxembourg to Lisbon, and that really now we are looking for concrete achievements, for something to genuinely come out of this Lisbon Summit. We have a lot of Europeans in the gallery here with us this evening and I wonder what they make of our discussion here this evening. I would like them to take away with them this evening the idea that the institutions of the European Union are now embarked upon a genuine process, which will lead to full employment once again in the European Union. There are many challenges involved with creating that full employment. Some of those challenges will be very difficult to overcome, but the important thing is that we have to turn the rhetoric of what we have been saying for many, many years – about full employment, about a socially inclusive society, about a society that is based on innovation and knowledge – into reality. This is the great challenge, the great importance of Lisbon. I just want to dwell on one or two key aspects that will help us realise that goal of turning rhetoric into reality. Firstly, there is the commitment to having genuine benchmarks, a genuine process of peer review, to the setting of targets, of genuine targets that we can achieve, to governments agreeing to embark upon what is quite a brave process of saying: ‘yes, we will allow ourselves to be marked against each other, we will allow ourselves to be marked against the rest of the world’. That really is a brave decision, because some Member States will clearly find themselves towards the bottom of the league table, which is something nobody likes. But this is important if we are to have a genuine achievable outcome from this Lisbon Summit rather than perhaps setting off down another road – a road which I know Prime Minister Gutíerrez does not want to embark on, because he actually wants to see something achieved in the process of the Lisbon Summit. There are other areas that we must look at. One of these is the challenge of creating an e-Europe which involves all its citizens and does not leave anybody on the wayside. Another is the process of actually having a genuine single market – which we still do not yet have – and skills training that will be the key to delivering that innovative and knowledge-driven society. There are tough choices, but once again in the gallery here tonight, I would like those people listening to this debate to take away with them the belief that we are going to actually have a society based on full employment, that the road to Lisbon will be the end of our journey, and that some concrete results will actually come out of it. – Mr President, I would like to thank the Council for the diligent way it has pursued this complicated dossier and most especially Commissioner Verheugen and his staff for the phenomenal amount of work they have done on monitoring the progress that has been achieved in the candidate countries. This has actually brought us to this debate here today. Without that effort, we simply would not be in this situation now. On 6 July 2002 a very famous world sporting event will start. I refer not to the World Cup, the final of which will have been contested between England and Ireland long before 6 July, but to the . In many ways the enlargement of the European Union is comparable to the . If we were to look at ourselves now we would find ourselves at the last climb, in the mountains, with most of the gruelling race behind us and very much with the finishing line in sight, with the Champs Elysées in Paris waiting for us. We have some tough and difficult climbs to get through at the moment. As anyone who has been on a bicycle knows: if you stop, it falls over. So now is not the time to stop. We have to keep moving forward. The message from my group is very clear, we must keep following that road map. It is a good road map and it will get us through this process. We must stick to the timescale that we have set ourselves. My esteemed colleague, Klaus Hänsch, first raised in this House the date of 2004 as the date for the completion of the first new accession and we must stick to that date. We must allow no new conditions to be introduced. Questions of history are important but questions of history are exactly that, historical questions. Britain and Ireland joined the European Union at the same time, yet the Irish constitution at that time had a claim over British territory. That did not stop us joining this club together. Britain and Spain are still trying to resolve the question of Gibraltar that has gone on for three centuries. These are important historical issues but they are not conditions for accession to the European Union. Those who use issues of history to try and create new obstacles on our road to the accession of new Member States of the European Union must appreciate the damage that they are doing to public opinion. I was in Prague recently where there has been a 6% fall in public support for joining the European Union just as a result of the debate over the Beneš decrees. Both the Commission and the Parliament are doing their work. We will rigorously assess the case of each individual country to make sure that the tough questions are answered and that we do not shirk our responsibilities. When we say we agree to a new country joining, we will have done all the hard work so that our citizens can be assured that this is a safe accession that we can all agree to. While I appreciate the work that has been done in the Council, I have to say there is a great worry within this Parliament that it may now be the Council that is starting to drag its feet. The Council often talks a good fight on many issues but sadly, in our experience it is often the Council that finds it the most difficult to take the final decisions. While we understand and appreciate that many issues we tackle over the next few months will be very difficult, please do not let us delay. Do not try and negotiate, or re-negotiate, the common agricultural policy in the space of two or three months to get us to October and the Brussels Summit. Do not allow the xenophobes and the anti-Europeans to slow us down. And, for heaven's sake, do not let us turn around and start blaming you for not actually getting to 2004 on time. Working together, we can achieve this but I have to say in all honesty that we have worries at the moment about when the Council is actually going to deliver on this. My one disappointment about the enlargement process is that the passion has gone out of it. At the beginning of the 1990s, we were all passionate about enlarging the European Union, particularly in the accession states. It has now become some sort of pragmatic, technical exercise. We, and the people in the gallery here, ought to be more passionate and expectant about the enlargement of the European Union because it is a historical goal which we can all be justly proud of. We need to reintroduce that element so that from Galway to Gdansk and beyond we secure that reunited continent. In 1990, Helmut Kohl and François Mitterand made a promise that we would have the enlargement of the European Union completed by the year 2000. We are failing singularly to do that. The finishing line is in sight, this time it is in Copenhagen. It is not Paris, but let us keep the  together. There are many candidate countries that would like to be wearing that , I think they are all wearing them. The important thing is to make sure we get to Copenhagen as a finishing line, not just another stage on our route to the successful completion of enlargement. – Mr President, I wish to add my welcome to the Danish presidency and I welcome in particular the commitment to one Europe, which is very important. My message to you, President-in-Office, is exactly the same as my message three weeks ago here to the outgoing Spanish presidency. The Commission and Parliament are doing their jobs on enlargement; it is now up to the Council to deliver and to ensure that enlargement takes place. History will neither forgive nor forget the governments of the European Union if, by squabbling over a few million euro, they delay this historic project. Now is the time to deliver upon our promises.  It is not the time to introduce new hurdles to the enlargement process. The reform of the common agricultural policy is important but it is not linked to enlargement. Again, that is a message you must take back to the Council. Everybody will calm down as the medium-term review becomes clearer, but that is a message we need you to take back to the governments. We support you on your three issues. The criteria are there to be followed and they must be followed. We will work with you on that. Nobody should be delayed if they are ready to come in, and December 2002 is the crucial date. Mr Watson made a rather shabby and silly remark about the United Kingdom. I have to say that even in his so-called "bleak Britain" anybody – whatever their age – can marry whoever they want. Perhaps he would like to join with me in inviting young people from Denmark to come to Britain and marry whoever they want and then return, if they so wish. Now is the time for action not words, as you said. However, over the next few months a few more harsh words and a lot of hard talk will take place. When you come back here in December after the summit meeting I really hope that we will all be singing with one voice: wonderful, wonderful Copenhagen! Thank you. – Mr President, I do not want to detain the House too long but I think that Mr Hannan protests too much! I made a very simple request to the President on Monday. The President agreed to my request and referred the matter to the Quaestors. But while Mr Hannan is here in the Chamber this morning, perhaps he could give us a guarantee that he will be making a new entry in his declaration of financial interests to say where the money has come from. The Danish people have a right to know in advance of the referendum on 28 September where the "no" campaign funds have come from. – Mr President, on a point of order, in connection with the point raised by Mr Evans, I too would like to thank President Cox for his visit to London today to pay his respects on behalf of the European Parliament on the occasion of the death of the Queen Mother. I hope that the Conference of Presidents can give positive consideration to the request made by Mr Evans that the votes be brought forward tomorrow morning, so as to enable those British Members, and other Members, who may want to watch the funeral on television to do so. – Madam President, I rise under Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure of this House and allude to the same point raised by Mr Davies about the very serious allegations made on BBC radio this morning. I would welcome an assurance from you that you will order an investigation to ensure that the two Members who were named in this particular BBC interview are not running their companies from this Parliament or from parliamentary offices, because that would be a very serious matter indeed. In the past the British Conservatives’ double standards have brought the United Kingdom’s House of Commons into disrepute, and there is a very real danger that such behaviour would have a similar impact on this Parliament. – Madam President, I wish to add my warm welcome and congratulations to the presidency on the successful achievement of the Lisbon Summit. I think we will come to see in the future that all roads did lead to Lisbon via Luxembourg, Cardiff and Cologne, because Lisbon should be the end of a process, one that can actually deliver as regards the sort of priorities we want to bring to a successful conclusion throughout the whole of the European Union. The key question is how we turn the conclusions of the Lisbon Summit into action; we must ensure that we turn the rhetoric of Lisbon into a reality. I shall not dwell too much on the specifics of the Lisbon Summit. A lot of us have been through that already and we welcome many of the conclusions. I want to look at the challenges that are inherent in the Lisbon process for Parliament, the Commission and, indeed, all three institutions. In particular, for Parliament there is a huge challenge in realising the full legislative implications of completing a single market. There is a challenge in realising the full potential of the economy. There is a challenge for Parliament in playing its part in helping Europe to become the dynamic centre of sustainable job creation, innovation, competitiveness and modernised social welfare. It is a challenge that Parliament must rise to, working with the other institutions, Commissioner Prodi and his colleagues, and the Council. If we do not, nobody will understand or forgive us for not realising our aim. The reason, as I mentioned before the Lisbon Summit, relates to those who are in the gallery with us today – the citizens of Europe. We have to turn Lisbon into something that means something to them, something to the people in my home town of Wolverhampton. To me, Lisbon is all about creating a Europe of highly-paid, highly-skilled, high-value-added jobs. If we can achieve that sort of Europe from the Lisbon process, it will be good for our citizens and for Europe as a whole, because what could be more socially just and inclusive than a Europe that genuinely benefits from full employment and good jobs that everybody can enjoy? That is our challenge. In conclusion, I thank the Portuguese presidency very much. I thank the President-in-Office, the Minister and, in particular, Prime Minister Guterres for all the personal effort he put into this process. At Lisbon the Portuguese presidency gave us the key to unlock a decade of sustained innovation, competitiveness and job creation across our continent. Now is the time for us as a Parliament, the Commission and the Council to work together to ensure that key is turned. – Mr President, first of all I commend all the reports before us which go some way to defining our common aspirations for the future of educational systems in the Union. They also make clear some of the issues which we now face in developing such systems. The first issue is the European educational area which hovers above all the reports rather like a question mark, and we undoubtedly have a variety of views on this: there is no doubt whatsoever, and this is without prejudice to the concept of subsidiarity, that we need to coordinate our education policies in the Union in pursuit of the Lisbon goals. If we do not do this, we cannot attain them: it is as simple as that. We need to have a coherent understanding of what constitutes good and what constitutes bad practice. We need to have an understanding about teaching and learning models, how we want to employ them, and what values we want to impart through them. We need to understand that this will involve considerable change, because of the new styles of education systems that we need today. We need to learn from best practice. We need therefore to have up-to-date hard and soft statistics to ensure that we can provide the most valuable benchmarks so that our systems match the very best. These reports also point to the development of educational content. At the risk of courting controversy I would remind you that Cisco Systems and Microsoft are already in our schools providing content. We need to make sure that they are providing the sort of content that we want to see in our schools. We need mobility. It is not just the key to a successful European single market, it is the key to a successful Union in its social and political content as well as its economic content. The mobility report has made considerable progress on this, but, how long has Bologna been around and yet failed to gain widespread application? How do we ensure equal access to mobility for all people when Member States do not have equal access to language skills? I would argue that for universal access to mobility we need to have universal access to language teaching and learning. Here, as elsewhere, new technology is one of the keys to unlock all of these solutions. We can install all the hardware and all the infrastructure we like all over Europe, but unless we have the educational systems to teach people skills in schools and in life-long learning, we will not be able to make the most of them. – Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Schwaiger for producing an extremely complex report and, in particular, Erica Mann, also for coordinating much of the work in producing amendments to the report. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport takes the view that as regards Seattle we need a holistic approach to audiovisual services. In Europe, the audiovisual services involve the cultural industries and also have a huge impact on our economy. Our cultural industries have nevertheless been seen, as I said last month, as an addendum to many of the serious trade issues that are going to be discussed at Seattle. However, I think that we must grasp the nettle and acknowledge that cultural industries are no longer an addendum to these discussions. They will in fact occupy a pivotal position, a pivotal role in the world economy and as such should be treated as a driver of the economy rather than as an afterthought. Now given this, the Committee on Culture thinks it is particularly important that the structural framework in which we now operate should be seriously examined. It is important nevertheless, given some of the incapacities and deficiencies that exist in the world market, that we maintain the position adopted at the Uruguay Round. This is in order to give us an even playing field across the world market, in terms of the cultural industry. While we maintain that it is important to look at the intermediate and the long term and to look at the way in which the networks are now impacting across different sectors, the complexity of these networks means that we also need to look at new instruments to deal with the global economy insofar as the structural industries are concerned. – Madam President, may I first thank Mr Graça Moura for weaving his way through the rather tough textiles and fibres that have made up this conciliation tapestry. It seems to me when entering the conciliation process for Culture 2000, having a poet to lead us in our endeavours is entirely appropriate. Again, because these conciliations are not entirely straight forward, we have to thank Vice-President Imbeni for his exemplary negotiating skills in the convoluted field of ensuring that cultural expenditure is wisely deployed and given to us in our Community. The fundamental question, it seems to me, that faces this Parliament, the Commission and the Council is: What is Europe? What does it mean and what does Europe give us over and above the parameters of our national boundaries? Europe is its people, its history and now its collectivity; but the reason why Culture 2000 is so important to us is for this: I will wager that when we ask the question – ‘What is Europe?’ – we answer it by saying, ‘It is our art, it is our literature and it is our heritage.’ That is what Culture 2000 represents. It represents the possibility of sustaining a European identity in the twenty-first century, an identity which eschews the echoes of division, of war, of poverty, of opportunity, of poverty  And more than this – and this is more prosaic, Madam President, it means that we have the ability to learn from previous policy initiatives by putting them into action in new programmes that are comprehensive, that are cross-cutting and that benefit our creative industries to the extent that they now require. It promotes mobility, and it opens the doors of culture to the socially disadvantaged and excluded. My only regret is that in promoting this programme we do not have sufficient money to match our aspirations and ensure our ability to deliver. – Mr President, we welcome the opportunity to work with the President-designate of the Commission and with the Commission. This is an opportunity to explore their commitment to working in partnership with Parliament and embracing positively our concerns to scrutinise the implementation of the reform process and also their constructive engagement with our concerns as Members for a European economy based on knowledge, skills and creativity and a European society based on inclusion, diversity and cultural wealth. What cannot be ignored are the challenges of globalisation now facing our Union, the explosion of the audiovisual and information society, the need for an educational capacity of great depth and breadth and, finally, the need to establish the legitimacy of our institutions and reinvigorate their forms. These are challenges that go right to the heart of the reform process and challenges that concern my own committee. I hope that the Commissioner-designate will go forward with our confidence but also with the understanding that your success also reflects our own success. Together we can work for the future of the European Union. – Can I take this opportunity to welcome the programme in the context of the five-year strategic plan. I particularly wanted to congratulate President Prodi on emphasising the issue of governance in the overall planning process. last week was rather scathing about the importance that was attached to this issue, but we have a huge challenge ahead in attacking the institutional architecture that we need to create for the 21st century – an architecture that has to be commensurate with our responsibilities and our position in the world. The outbursts in Seattle and Davos for instance were not just about the issues – they were very much about a populace and a citizenry trying to engage with a new set of institutions and being not quite sure of how to do so. Therefore, opening up the invisible cities of decision-making in Europe to the citizenry is absolutely vital. Can I welcome the annual programme in particular because there was one omission from the five-year plan. That was the whole area of education, youth and culture which did not make an appearance at all. The volume of programmes dedicated to this in the annual programme lends a suitable importance to those areas because they can provide us with the solid basis that we will need in order to be able to face the challenges we are now presented with. In moulding a greater Europe we have a significant challenge, but mobility in Europe – student mobility for instance – is still very low. Only 2% outside the old Erasmus programme of students are actually mobile in Europe, which is not something upon which we can build a new economy at all. We are entering the new technological age, and again can I congratulate the Commission and also the Portuguese Presidency on the work that it has done to usher in the technological and informational age. Again, we need a programme of education that matches the best practice across the whole of Europe. We cannot develop a whole series of initiatives based on, for instance, small businesses or health on-line or whatever without educating people to be literate in those technologies. This means perhaps looking again at all our educational programmes to see that they match the programmes we are particularly enthusiastic about. Can I just, in finishing, say that we will have started four new programmes by the end of this year – Media, Culture 2000, Youth and Socrates. I hope that we will evaluate the work that was done in the previous programmes to ensure that these are not just another new layer but are actually a new beginning for the programmes that can present us with an educated European citizenry. Mr President, we are committed to safeguarding cultural diversity in the Union and to promoting a pluralistic media. However, we abstained on the proposals set out simply because we believe that they are largely inoperable and that other instruments can be used in order to achieve our objectives. Overall, we concur with the rapporteur on the desirability of linguistic diversity, the definition of cultural goods as a public good, the desirability of public sector broadcasting and the undesirability of media concentration. However, paragraphs 23, 24, 26, 29, 31, 32 and 33 unnecessarily pre-empt the UNESCO conclusions to be drawn in 2005, let alone inhibiting, as they do, the room for manoeuvre on cultural areas in the negotiations in Cancun. . – Mr President, I also thank Mr Mennea and Mrs Zabell for highlighting the crucial role that sport is now playing in all of our lives, I have to start by saying that sport's importance as an industry is well known, but for sport to become just another industry would be a mistake and a great loss to our society. We are all living longer, and sport is occupying a greater part of our time. It is there not just to revitalise our bodies but also our minds and our souls, and we have to recognise the importance of that fact in European legislation. I therefore support the call for a legal basis that will put our powers on a par with those of the very important international sports organisations. Europeans share a love of watching and participating in football, from Newcastle through Dortmund to Barcelona, but it is important that local people should be inspired to join their clubs. I would therefore say that the most enduring teams should be built up from scratch and not simply bought up. The system needs well-run machinery consisting of clubs of all shapes and sizes and degrees of professionalism and we need to take the opportunity to reform it. I support, therefore, Commission statements and the Commissioner's action on this matter. Sport has a huge potential. It has shown that it can build understanding and fight racism. Let us do more work in sport to bring our communities together. It has shown that it has the power to encourage disabled athletes to succeed. Let us show that we share their pride and build joint events for them and able-bodied people. Violence on the field has been the bad side of sport. Let us work to ensure that sport is violence-free. Doping, finally, is a symptom of the over-commercialisation of sport. As our teams head off to Sydney they are under more pressure than ever. We have to set up facilities that fight doping on an international basis because, as we have seen, one false accusation can ruin a career or cast a shadow over an exemplary career, such as that of Linford Christie. Therefore, we support these reports and hope that they will provide the foundation for us to move forward into the next phase of European sport, a community spirit to build the industry and the potential of sport in Europe. – Mr President, often it seems that education plays second fiddle to the issues of market liberalisation, technological innovation and indeed the promotion of telecommunications and entrepreneurial infrastructure. However, the Bullmann report calls to our attention that all these measures come to absolutely naught if we do not have an educated citizenry that can create, operate and service these sectors. Therefore, education in the context of a sophisticated manufacturing and entrepreneurial  in a society that requires frequent switches in skills basis and a society that requires mobility across borders, becomes a precondition, a predeterminant, of our success in a knowledge economy, not simply one of the results of its successes. How can we hope to have a competitive, dynamic economy when Member States today have substantial proportions of illiteracy, huge inequalities in linguistic capacity, protectionism and discrepancies in occupational and educational qualifications, and numerous financial and legal barriers to mobility. The changes we need, require fundamental cooperation across Member States of a kind that education ministers, vice-chancellors of universities and national qualification agencies find enormously difficult. Therefore facing these extraordinary difficulties, the one thing at Barcelona that would move us forward immensely would be to provide the framework, the joint commitment and a realistic appraisal of the resources required to ensure that we make these fundamental leaps to promote education as the fundamental step in the future of the competitive knowledge economy in Europe. – Mr President, I very much welcome what the Commissioner has said, for three reasons. Firstly, because although we are about to invoke the WTO dispute procedure, it is an unwieldy procedure and we may lose capacity in the interim. Secondly, because although I can understand the context and rationale for withdrawing the shipbuilding intervention fund, I am nevertheless convinced that we need to have structural measures, particularly in the areas of research, construction of oil and drilling vessels, chemical carriers and cruise liners. While the second report clearly outlines the inadequacies of China's development in this area – poor management, corruption etc. – while they are outside the WTO, I do not think we can be sanguine about the potential that they might develop. Therefore we need to take action very quickly. In a constituency where we have lost 10 000 shipbuilding jobs in the last ten years, I welcome the measures that you have outlined tonight but hope that we can move faster and further in the coming months. – Mr President, Commissioner, the sad point that I have to make at the outset is that the statues have now been destroyed and so we have been overtaken by events. Nevertheless, as a funereal action and as a warning to the world, our resolution holds considerable resonance. Certainly the suppression of women's rights in Afghanistan continues apace. I come from a different cultural and religious tradition to those who created the Bamiyan Buddha statues in the 2nd century, but I feel that all of us share a common ownership of our heritage and the right to free movement, education and employment regardless of gender. Coming particularly to the statues, this destruction was much more than just a mindless act of violence by a regime that apparently intends to catapult us back into the Middle Ages. All of us, whatever our creed, nationality, or political viewpoint, lost an irreplaceable piece of the common heritage that binds us together on this earth. A founding principle of the European Union is that religious and cultural tolerance is integral to a democratic and civilised society. This debate therefore not only registers our disgust with the Taliban, it is also a reminder that there are forces we need to guard against. The Taliban may see the destruction of the Buddhas simply as the shattering of stones. But we in Europe know better. We know that the burning of books meant much more than the burning of books. It signified something else entirely. In commending my resolution to the House, I hope therefore that we in the Union will continue to work with all the governments and other agencies which sought to prevent this action and that together we can prevent any further catastrophes of this kind. – Madam President, I wish to begin by congratulating Commissioners Reding, Monti and Diamantopoulou. We have all come a very long way since last August. The partnership has been invaluable in proving that we can come to some agreement on this issue. The principles that have been established, especially around the specificity of sport, are extremely important. However, my worry remains with the players' associations. I know that the Commissioner may say that this is a matter for the sporting families, but ultimately we will have to sort it out, because if the players' associations either refuse to come on board or the players take action, then ultimately the agreement may be in tatters. First, what will Mrs Reding be doing to bring the players' associations on board and, secondly, are there any particular problems that she thinks we could resolve as far as the players are concerned? – Mr President, I welcome what I believe we will all agree is an exemplary piece of work. We now have a comprehensive blueprint for the way in which cultural policy could operate in the Union. The rapporteur has worked particularly well with the initiator of policy and legislation in the European Commission. I should like to make a few points. First of all we have to acknowledge in this House and beyond that the creative and knowledge industries have become a driver in our new global economy and that the skills that we need therein have become vital to our performance in the European economy. More than this, the social and philosophical needs that we have in mastering the cultural question become central to ensuring that we have stability in our globalised world. This means that we have to recognise the importance of funding for cultural activities. We have to face some very difficult questions: for instance, an increasingly small part of our economy in the new global world is agriculture. The common agricultural policy, as we all know, takes a vast amount of our funds. If we are to recognise the primacy of the knowledge and information economy in the new global economy then we have to face the reality of looking at different priorities for our fundings. All the measures in the Ruffolo report are deliverable, but in order to deliver we must ensure that we have cooperation across institutions and at different levels of government. This means that we must look, for instance, at the structural funds and the way in which we monitor the amount of money that is spent on cultural activities. Recently a Commission official said to me that we could not do this. I have to inform him that all he needs do is to go to any of the municipalities in the Union and they will tell him how to do it. That is what officials are employed to do. He could even look at the Single Programming Documents in order to do this. It is possible to do it when we need to. I say this not to slight the Commission or their staff but to say that cooperation is needed in order to achieve what Mr Ruffolo, in such an exemplary manner, has set out. – Mr President, Commissioner Monti, we all realise that we are facing a crisis in terms of our press and communications policy for the Union's institutions. Our institutions are regarded with contempt at worst and apathy at best. But if you look at the work that we actually do in the European Union, it is high-quality work of great significance to all of our citizens and has an impact on their everyday lives. Why therefore cannot that message be put across with greater alacrity and greater effectiveness, by the Commission in particular? Last week, at an event in my constituency, trade unionists were taken aback at the sheer breadth of legislation that we had been able to enact, and ensured that Member States enacted, in favour of their rights. Yet that message does not seem to get through to them on a day-to-day basis and we have to ask why. I very much believe that although we are an elected House and the Commission is not, and although the Commission has one part of the policy process and we have another, we in fact have shared interests. I spend much of my time trying to destroy the myths that are growing up about the European Union and although I welcome the statement of the Commissioner, particularly on public relations and rapid rebuttal, I still feel unassisted by the Commission in what we are trying to do. I regret that it has taken until now to get a communication on this issue. I have to ask why the interinstitutional talks on this issue are still stalled? I also have to ask why, when the Commission is ambitious enough – quite rightly – to want to reform the whole of European governance, it does not put at the centre of that strategy a radical reworking and modernisation of its communications and information policy. Quite honestly, we have an awfully long way to go in terms of delivering the policy that the people deserve. These questions must be answered because going forward with the White Paper on governance cannot be done in all sincerity, unless there is a commitment by the European Commission to come to terms with the problems it is experiencing within its organisation. Certainly it will have a partner in Parliament in attempting to rework the system radically. In my own country, my party is famed for its spin-doctors. I am not necessarily advocating such a development in the European Union but we must look – and that is why I welcome your words Commissioner – at the whole question of public relations. If we are to realise the European project that we here in this room want, then we must have a voice that can sell that project and at the moment I am afraid we do not. – Mr President, my thanks to Mr Gargani for bringing forward this report and to Members of the previous Parliament who also put some work into ensuring that it comes before us tonight. Of course it is not an issue without contention. There are largely two approaches to dealing with this sort of issue. The first is to say that we are letting people off the hook without allowing them to fulfil their obligations. The second – and a view to which I subscribe – is that we are actually allowing the power of cultural activities to cut across people’s differences and to change people’s lives. While there are serious issues that are not entirely resolved here, if we want to have a healthy European future and a healthy European project, we depend on such initiatives to take this forward. These initiatives are vital to changing people’s attitudes. If we look at change and coexistence as our goal, then we need to look no further than Northern Ireland where we have brought people together through European funds and dramatically changed the landscape of conflict. It is this that can be achieved from this sort of initiative, and this that will help Europe, its borders and its beneficiaries to put forward an agenda of change. I echo Mr Gargani in saying that all of the issues that have been discussed around the Chamber tonight seek to ensure that culture is seen as a priority; that it is not just, for instance, the euro or jobs and employment that will bring a successful European project together. Cultural change will ultimately concretise the ideals and ideas that we all have in promoting our future together. Mr President, like Mr Harbour I would like to thank the Commission for such a positive input into the world summit, and also Mr Harbour himself for pursuing this issue so doggedly. This is an extremely important initiative that goes right to the very heart of the societal change that is engulfing our world at the moment. This is because technological change comes with something else: it comes with a huge transformation in the values and norms of our society and a huge transformation of our global economy. Therefore the way in which we deal with this issue politically is of vital importance. The vast array of opportunities and threats raised by the information age are too various to mention in my three minutes so I shall draw some examples from my own constituency in the north-east of England. My own region has turned itself around in the last 30 years. It was once on the scrap heap of the Industrial Revolution and it is now poised to take advantage of the information age we are so speedily, but ambiguously, chasing. This age requires sound infrastructure, sound technical capacity, knowledge and content. Yet regions in our Union such as my own, let alone regions of developing countries, could be adversely affected or simply miss out on the benefits of the information age because these benefits are so unevenly distributed. Because my region is seriously disadvantaged in educational terms and because our infrastructure is not yet up to the task, there is a huge way to go for us in order to be able to benefit from it enormously. I welcome both the summit and the action plan as a wake-up call to our governments. Universal access, widespread development of broadband and skilled development are fundamental to successful transition. But we must be aware that, while it is correct to have global aspirations, we have serious work to do in our own back yard. If we are all to participate in this particular game, we must create an even playing field. – I think our deliberations today have been very much about the key issues of environment and agriculture and also the social clause issue, but I want to bring to your attention the specific needs of the cultural industries and the audiovisual sector. It is particularly important, in considering these areas, that we look at the problems that challenge us in these sectors: for instance, the growth rate, presently 13% in the EU, which probes the capacity and the reach of negotiated rules; as well as their complexity. To take, for instance, the convergence of the telecommunication industries, audio and computer technology, which I feel pose fundamental questions regarding the way in which we produce and consume these industries. But much of this will depend on the detail as concluded in the negotiations themselves. I want to use the opportunity of the Commissioner’s presence here today to propose – in the light of the exemptions we already have in the European Union for the audiovisual industries, which give us room for manoeuvre, which give us also the ability to evolve with the industry and to make a gesture in the direction of an even playing field vis-à-vis the US – that, in constructing the infrastructure for the negotiations, we should be flexible enough to accommodate our needs here in Europe. At the same time, I also recognise that we need a negotiating arena that is both robust and realistic. So I would advocate that, in terms of our position here in Europe, we need to ensure that our industries move forward in a way auspicious to achieving the potential that they undoubtedly possess. – Mr President, it is indeed a shame that Mr Farage is no longer with us. He obviously has learned nothing about public policy if he thinks that we can run the whole of Europe on a series of referendums. This discussion is probably one of the most important that we will have before enlargement. It is neither as hallowed nor as sexy as an IGC, but until we get the actual delivery mechanisms of democracy and public policy right, the boring, tedious administrative detail, then we do democracy an injustice. We have to reform our governmental processes. There are many proposals in the White Paper that cause nobody any problems, but issues like co-regulation and the delivery of public policy by external agencies do cause problems. We cannot afford not to address these issues. Our institutional overload, as we all know, is quite dramatic in the Union and with enlargement it will get worse. We need to ensure, however, that when we reform those processes – whether it be issues concerning co-regulation or external agencies – we see democratic control as the key factor, democratic control in a democratic framework. This will not be a resource-free exercise. It will also require significant person power to deliver it, at least in the early stages. The Commission has to face this. It will not be a cost-cutting exercise by any means. Finally, if there is a criticism that has to be made of the Commission, and I am glad it has realised the importance of this criticism, it is that its White Paper did not address the role of Parliament. Now I realise that the Commission might be sensitive about doing so, in case it brings the wrath of this House down on it. That represented a fundamental failure in the early discussions between the Commission and Parliament. So I am very pleased that this has now been rectified and we can move forward to produce the sort of governmental structure which we require. – Mr President, I thank Mrs Hieronymi for the work she has put into this report. It is important to stress at the outset that this is not just any old report. It is something that is very dear not only to the members of this committee and the House but also to members of the industry right across the Union. But in putting this before the House we have to ask ourselves two very important questions. Firstly, why do we need this programme? Secondly, what is the added value that it is going to bring us? Only by answering those questions as a House can we go forward to the Council and the Commission with a very strong case. Why do we need it? We are at the very beginning of an explosion of this industry on this continent. We have to put ourselves in the position of being able to compete in the international arena. I believe we are able to do that. I also believe that this industry will be the spearhead of this century, in the same way as coal, steel and the infrastructure of railways were the impetus for the development of the revolution in the 19th century. It is absolutely vital that we do not miss the train on this one. It is absolutely vital that we get in there as a series of institutions committed to building this industry. The second reason is that we have to, in this increasingly homogenised era of global audio-visual content, get into the area of freedom of speech, freedom of expression and freedom of diversity. That is where we in this House have an exemplary responsibility in performing our role in the development of this particular sector. My own Group is very committed to the budget that has been laid out in the report. We are also very committed to diversifying and looking at different sources of funding as befits our new entrepreneurial era. Finally, it is very important to reiterate what Mrs Pack said about having a long term strategy for the audio-visual sector in the European Union, a long term coordinated and integrated strategy that allows us to benefit from each other's strengths in every Member State. – Thank you very much to Mr Veltroni for giving us such a valuable report. It is a welcome clarification on where Parliament stands on digital and audiovisual sector issues for the forthcoming revision of TV without frontiers. However, I want to confine my remarks this evening to public service broadcasting in the digital age because there are some very important public access issues that we need to address when defining the principles from the crossover in our current media to the development of digital broadcasting. Defining the values and principles underlying public broadcasting gives us some difficulties anyway, as Member States, corporations, and broadcasters all have very different ideas of what public broadcasting constitutes. However, this should not prevent us from defining it in the digital age, because these principles are very important to us all, and, as infrastructure has developed, so content is going to develop as well. We are all being told that we are entering a knowledge-based society, and if that is the case, then knowledge in a sense becomes power that defines the powerless and the powerful, the information poor and the information rich. Overcoming that divide, to my mind, should be one of the key points that we emphasise in this report. There are a number of reasons why this is important to us from the perspective of European content. First of all, if we are in a knowledge-based society, we need growth in knowledge-based and creative skills. Secondly, we are a democratic society, and digital policy in the audiovisual sector can connect our local citizens to our citizens at the centres of power. In terms of cultural richness and diversity, it is important both that we should have individual centres of cultural excellence and that we be bound as a European continent. And, finally, we have to ensure that the switchover from analogue to digital is attractive to all of our citizens: that is the end which we should work to achieve. – Can I first of all thank and congratulate Mrs Pack for leading us through this process, and also the Commission for standing by in what was a hard-fought, long and, in Parliament's view, a responsible negotiation, following which we are very happy to vote for the programme. We all agree that Socrates I has provided us with a vital building block in the lives of young Europeans. I have seen young people in areas of particular social exclusion in my own Member State, who did not know very much about the south-east of England, let alone the south-east of France or Spain, blossom and come forth in terms in confidence and educational capacity as a result of their interactions with other students from other Member States. In terms of the ability of the programme to spearhead the values of Parliament, it is a tremendous success. Socrates is vital to the expansion of the educational capacity of our young people, not only in terms of their cultural capacity but in terms of their economic foundation as well. We have seen that it is very much at the frontline when it comes to providing a future for a solid European Union. We will benefit from the experience of Socrates I and the new coherent and comprehensive approach that we will see in Socrates II. However, our job does not finish there. In the next few years we have a vital role to play in examining the financial framework and the framework with a view to the enlargement, because that is when we will see the strains on Socrates II and its ability to deal with a new enlarged European Union. We must provide for those incoming Member States the tremendous opportunities it is currently providing for our students. . The British Labour MEPs have voted in favour of a sheep premium of EUR 25, an increase of 20% on the figure proposed by the Commission. Our objective was to pass on to sheep (and goat) farmers an increase in the annual premium but to keep within the expenditure limits set out in Agenda 2000 and keep us on track for CAP reform. The incomes of sheep farmers have not kept pace with other types of farming. This decision will help to correct the imbalance. Because the payment will be annual and known in advance, it will help farmers in their business planning. We particularly emphasise the importance we place on increased marketing support to encourage consumption and we look to the Commission to act with urgency. . – Mr President, I want to first talk about why this report is important and in doing so I picked at random a number of published authors: the works of Michel Tournier, Leonardo Sciascia, Italo Calvino and a man in my own country, Caryl Philips. A couple of shelves at home house this work of rich linguistic diversity, of rich form, rich culture and rich history. They fashion the way in which I think about and look at the world. The canvas upon which I work has been painted by these authors who are enjoyed by many people. Books for me are principally about access to choice, access to ideas and access to opportunities. I grew up in a pretty humble background, in a poor area with impoverished expectations and poor prospects. But from the day that I entered a public library, books became my liberation as they have been to so many others. I am very grateful to the authors and publishers of those books for giving me that liberation and it is now my duty to ensure that experience is passed on to others. What then is the report about? Quite simply, I want to ensure that as we fully enter the electronic age, the framework which operates in Member States for books, whether it be protecting intellectual property rights, tax regimes, the regulation of demand or grants, continues to operate in the new age. Books have always been recognised as more than simply a commodity and in an increasingly commodified world this is extremely important. Electronic publishing covers four specific areas: electronic books, printing on demand, Internet bookshops and publishing on the Internet. We need to make sure that we have the policies to operate a fully comprehensive canvas on which all of these developments can take place. So what do I want to see in this report? Firstly, we need to encourage the huge growth and development of these industries and the widespread use of electronic media in Europe. We need to have affordable access to these media for all Europeans and the educational provision to make this possible. We should continue to foster linguistic and cultural diversities through the use of electronic publishing and we should facilitate the easy transformation of traditional publishing industries into the e-publishing arena. In order for this to happen, we need to ensure that the appropriate policies are in place to pursue this growth and to ensure that there is choice and access for all. Therefore, my report calls for a number of things. The EU institutions have a very important part to play in ensuring future growth. First of all, the Commission can establish a comprehensive policy to develop this sector. Secondly, we can all promote policies that develop and encourage literacy and combat the digital divide. The Commission can and should develop training and vocational programmes and support mechanisms for SME development in this particular sector and we should work with Member States to build safeguards for the rights of authors and the interests of publishers, and ensure that workers in the industry have the opportunity to develop their capacity in the new age. Member States should ensure that the current VAT rules applying to books be monitored and mirrored for electronic publication. All of this is within our grasp and with this I commend to the whole House, as it almost is, my report with the hope that it provides us with a route map that will allow everybody to enjoy the benefits and the fruits of the emergence of this new sector. – Mr President, I very much hope that even at this very late stage, right up to the wire, we can achieve a compromise on this package between the three institutions. Others have mentioned the conclusions of the Lisbon Summit but there are other needs for a conclusion: the needs of industry for early clarity about the new rules, the need of European citizens for cheap, efficient competitive telecommunication services, the needs of European Union businesses for education, for research, for societal applications. I particularly want to ask about the rights of disabled users and to put a specific question to the Commission on the compromise presidency text. It is important, not just for social reasons, but for access to employment for disabled users. I would like to ask Commissioner Liikanen whether in his view the presidency compromise encompasses those points of principle contained in both the framework directive and the universal service directive. There have been serious criticisms by disabled users about non-implementation of the RTTE directive and this is a crucial point for many of us. Parliament has rightly supported carefully delineated powers for the Commission and understands also that some qualification is essential. There is a need for clear rules consistently applied within national regulatory authorities and between regulatory authorities. The powers for the Commission need to be circumscribed and time-limited, as indeed they were in Parliament's amendments and in the presidency compromise. I very much hope that when we vote on Wednesday we will have reached an agreement between the political groups and between the three institutions. – Mr President, may I start by thanking the Commission for its timely, well-judged and well-forecasted document. This is, of course, timed to coincide with the summit in Lisbon next week, and Parliament has had to work extremely speedily, for which I thank so many colleagues who have helped with this and, of course, the secretariat. When I was a young child, a library was opened in a village where I was born and brought up; when the head teacher of the village school opened the library, he said that there were over 4 000 books in the library, and I thought with all the wisdom of a six-year old child: well, that is all the books in the world. Now, I personally own over 4 000 books, and, although this is hardly a knowledge revolution in itself, it is some indication, on a personal level extrapolated to a political level, of the pace of change in how knowledge is accessed, distributed, applied and refined. We ought to put this into some sort of context, though, and remind ourselves that the majority of people in the world have never made and probably never will make even one phone call. The Commission proposals and Parliament's response give a clear acknowledgement that the market can and should be the motor for much of this change, but not in every case. The challenge is to work out when the European Union should let the market do the driving, and when we should intervene and regulate – when we should intervene, in whose interests and for how long. We should remember – and the Commission proposal and Parliament's response highlight the fact – that third-generation mobile telephones, on which so much of our future depends, are an area where clearly the European Union has an important lead, and that this lead is partly, though not wholly, explained by intervention. The adoption of the GSM standard has meant that the European Union has a tremendous advantage. Our report mentions matters relating to social protection and the social implications of this change, and I am indebted to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and particularly Mr Cercas, draftsman of the opinion from that committee – the only committee that has been able to complete an opinion in the short space of time available – for his hard work. If I can explain procedurally and very briefly, the Social Affairs Committee voted on Monday evening at the same time as the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and, with the agreement of the draftsman, I have taken over some of his proposals and put them down in my own political group's name. I hope that there will be support for those, because they go into a considerable amount of important detail. Other amendments are looking at matters relating to disability rights. I have consulted widely about the need to ensure that certain fundamental principles about the rights of disabled users and disabled people at work are incorporated into this report, and I hope into future legislation under the 1999 review of telecommunications legislation, at a sufficiently early stage. We have amendments about consumer protection – so important in the establishment of trust in e-commerce – on the future of taxation, on the implications for healthcare and for transport. Particularly important are going to be the employment consequences already seen and I tried hard to obtain a balance: not to be too alarmist because, of course, some of these changes will mean unemployment, but, on the other hand, to look at the opportunities for new sorts of work that the changes will bring. Whilst I was researching for these comments to make to you today, I looked for examples, because I think these illustrate so well to the citizens of the European Union how these developments will bring benefits to their lives. It is important, too, that we in Parliament and in the institutions of the European Union also apply modern methods, methods characterised by transparency and openness, in our own deliberations. I should like to use my final few seconds to draw to your attention three projects in my own area. One of these is in Rutland, the smallest county in England, where a virtual Rutnet was set up, bringing together people in rural, isolated communities for purposes of leisure, transport, employment and social life generally. Further north, the Nottingham rural community council have set up a similar project in an area of serious mining deprivation, and this is bringing enormous benefits to many of the people in that area. On a broader basis, M-net, the European East Midlands network helping small businesses and craft enterprises and linking in with universities and colleges, is also important. Finally, some comments, Mr President, on what the future holds. It is interesting to try to look into the future, and I should like to quote from the words of a famous Louis Armstrong song, ‘What a wonderful world’: ‘Babies are born, we watch them grow, they'll learn much more than I'll ever know’. I think for all of us the future for our children and grandchildren is a future of great opportunity, though also of great uncertainty. It is praiseworthy that the Commission is looking to play a leading, pivotal role in this, and I commend the Commission proposals and my own report to you. – Mr President, as you know I currently chair Parliament's delegation for the United States of America and I should like to raise a point of order under Parliament's rules concerning parliamentary delegations. It has come to my attention that a group of parliamentarians from the EPP Group visited the USA in July. Normally I would regard this as a private matter and not my concern. However, in the programme connected with this visit the group is described as a delegation and in particular Mr Goodwill, MEP, is described as leader of the delegation. I can make this programme available to you. This puts the whole visit in an entirely different context. There was a formal delegation which I chaired from Parliament to the USA in June and there is an understandable confusion when another group of MEPs some three weeks later arrive in the USA, to all intents and purposes also a European Parliament delegation. I have reports that the comments of these parliamentarians were from the wilder shores of the EPP Group and were notable for their anti-European content. – Mr President, it is right that this Parliament and indeed the Council and the Commission treat this matter with the utmost seriousness. It really is most reprehensible that there has been not only an apparent flouting of the formal rules for Commissioners, but also a contravention of the spirit of transparency and trust that should be the basis of the work between this Parliament and Commissioners. I have been the rapporteur on a substantial number of Directives concerning the liberalisation of the telecommunications industry and I, and my colleagues, have acted in good faith in this work and had assumed that the former Commissioner Bangemann had done the same. One can only speculate at just how much of a commitment Mr Bangemann had to the level playing field in this aspect of the internal market when he is willing to sell his knowledge to , a major player in the European Union and further afield. It is particularly difficult, Colleagues, when Mr Bangemann was a former Member of this Parliament and indeed, a leader of the Liberal Group. One matter which has not been mentioned in the debate is that there is to be a major review of all of the telecommunications legislation later this year and part of this work has already been started by the Commission under Mr Bangemann's commissionership. As I have previously stated, I have been the rapporteur on a number of matters, but if I can just give you a thumbnail sketch of just how extensive this review will be and what it will cover – universal service, frequencies, satellite, regulation, licences, interconnections, numbering, mobile telephones, convergence of broadcasting, data transmission and telecommunications – an explosion of legislation and an enormous segment of the European Union's manufacturing, industrial and commercial base in its own right, but also as an adjunct to so many other industries. On all of this, Mr Bangemann takes with him his knowledge and his contacts to . There are also a worryingly substantial number of cases before the European Court of Justice on breaches of legislation, particularly in the field of interconnections – again, matters on which the former Commissioner has intimate knowledge. The Commissioner, when he was here in this Chamber, and I have had many debates with him, was fond of quoting from Shakespeare and other English poets. I shall quote one in his absence on his behalf – 'Just for a handful of silver he left us, just for a ribbon to stick on his coat'. I know that the money he has been offered by  hardly can be justified by the description of a handful of silver and indeed it begs the question of just how seriously Members of this House will treat a company like when it comes to lobby us as they surely will on the matter of the review and future legislation in this field. If I can be slightly mischievous, one wonders just how much value for money  will get out of Martin Bangemann. I wish he were on a performance-related pay and he might find that the fat cheque might not look nearly so attractive. I understand Commissioner Kinnock's hesitation and his hesitations because this matter is . Fortunately, Members of this Parliament are protected by parliamentary privilege, but even then, Commissioner Kinnock, I would ask you to note the reasonably restrained language that there is in our resolution and if I may just quote to you briefly on what the resolution says – “it deems his conduct to be particularly open to criticism’. We did choose the language very carefully and many might say that ‘open to criticism’ might be a serious understatement. I finish, where I started, by saying that we are right to treat this with the utmost seriousness. I support absolutely the Council's decision to refer this matter to the Court and to use all the powers that there are under the agreements. However, one matter still is outstanding. There seems to be no mechanism within the existing rules and obligations where a company like  itself can be subject to some sort of punitive measures. If we could find some way not only of having a measure to take against former Commissioners who act in this way, but also against the companies who benefit from their knowledge, then I think that we might have two very powerful levers to use in future transgressions. We hope, of course, that these will not occur. We wish the new Commission every success and hope that the high standards they espouse will be put into practice. Mr President, these are indeed challenging times for the European Union’s textile and clothing industry. In that context, I am delighted to welcome the Commission’s communication on this matter. The region I represent, the East Midlands, has the largest cluster of clothing companies in the United Kingdom and has the second largest clothing and textile industry in Europe. Many of my constituents working in this industry have been made redundant time after time and they see manufacturing moving to the low-wage economies of developing countries. It is understandable that to these workers, who are still in such vulnerable positions, protectionist measures seem an attractive proposition. However, in the long term this is not the way to deal with the problems facing the industry today. In today’s global economy the EU is never going to be able to compete on price alone and nor should it. The EU should maximise the advantages of well-trained workers who are motivated, skilled and experienced. We have succeeded in this industry in the past and we can continue to do so in the future. There are different, innovative ways to face the challenges of increasing global competition. For some businesses EU funding has proved to be an important tool in boosting competitiveness. The East Midlands Textile Association runs numerous projects – funded through the European Regional Development Fund – which assist companies: projects such as MAS, which helps small businesses in the region to branch out into new markets, or the Business ICT Bureau, which provides an expert source of ICT help specific to the needs of the textile sector. These are good examples of how funding is being used to help establish networks between local organisations working in the same area. While funding programmes are beneficial, they are also short-term in nature. I know that work is being done to ensure that maximum long-term economic benefit will be gained by harnessing the East Midlands textile cluster. For other businesses the answer may be to look towards technical textiles, ranging from specialist heat- and chemical-resistant materials to flight socks designed to reduce the risk of deep vein thrombosis. I should like to raise a note of caution here. For some companies the correct response to the challenges is to look to the high-tech field, but it is not an option available to everyone. It would be easy to say that companies are resistant to change. If you look at small organisations with just a few employees and tight profit margins it is much more difficult for those companies to make the significant investment in research that will come more easily to the bigger players. My final point is that the head office of the trade union, KFAT, is in Leicester, my home town. That union has informed the debate about the future of the textile industry. I, like the industry, the trade unions and those who work in it, look forward to the implementation of the Commission’s proposals. . We welcome the result of today's vote on the Liese report on the 6th Framework Programme. The issue of funds for collaborative research projects using human embryonic stem cells and stem cell lines was discussed in depth in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy who reached a consensus view, reproduced today in Parliament. This will allow us to continue with this vital research which has the potential to bring relief to millions of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and diabetes sufferers. Several colleagues tabled amendments to the report seeking to express their own, or nationally based views on the matter, which would impose restrictive conditions on deadlines for use of stem cells or stem cell lines. This would discourage or simply prevent innovative research in this area confining scientists and researchers to using ageing supernumerary embryos which are not in the best condition and could even result in an increasing number of stem cells being consumed for this purpose. There is no ethical consensus on this issue in Europe. – The rapporteurs have done excellent work here. Mr Paasilinna is an old hand but I would like to welcome Mr Brunetta and Mrs Niebler to the secret world, the secret language, of telecommunication junkies. What are we actually about here? What we are about is creating new rules to look at who can play and on what terms. We are looking for a genuine pan-European single market. We are looking at where regulation has succeeded and, if I could say to Mr Harbour, not only where regulation has failed but why it has failed, and that is very important. Mr Paasilinna, in his written contribution, posed the question who will regulate the regulator and I think that the role of the Commission is absolutely crucial in this. It is not only about who will regulate the regulator but why we need to regulate the regulator. Mr Clegg spent an enormous amount of time just last year on the local loop unbundling rules and I am posing a separate question to you, Commissioner, to ask if you will give an indication of where already we are seeing resistance at Member State level to implementing local loop unbundling. There are a couple of positive things that I want to draw your attention to, because we also need to make sure that access in its widest sense really is available. I tabled amendments in the Industry Committee on the rights of disabled consumers, particularly because of inadequacies in the RTTE directive which I know the Commission are aware of, and I was pleased that the committee and, I hope, Parliament are going to continue to support this. Going back to my original point, what this is really about is making sure that the European Union’s telecommunications industry has a climate in which it can thrive and survive and remain competitive. These are important steps in that direction. – The Bonn Declaration was most welcome in that it committed the European Union and the United States of America to a full and equal partnership, and of course the EU and the US are both partners and competitors, particularly in trade matters. It is important to stress the scale of the economic relationship currently worth USD 2 billion a day, but where there is competition there will inevitably be some areas of conflict and friction, and part of the nature of the relationship is to try and contain that friction. I would like to quote from a Commission document about how to avoid or minimise new trade disputes. It says that we should consult before legislating, negotiate before litigating, compensate before retaliating and comply at any rate. That might be a lofty target but one worth aiming for. I want to comment too on Commissioner Patten's very welcome statement that he did not see any connection between being European and anti-Americanism. He is absolutely right. To be European is also to encompass a generous inclusivity about people's notions very different from our own. There are of course important outstanding trade disputes, the foreign sales tax one in particular, and it was worrying, to say the least, that President Clinton's last speech before he left office contained some barely veiled threats about the future of the Airbus deal and a possible dispute. Finally I want to commend the part of the resolution that welcomes the Transatlantic Legislative Dialogue on which this Parliament has set such great store, and I very much hope we want that to continue and be strengthened as part of a constructive and good-tempered dialogue. .– I and my fellow British Labour MEPs do not support any amendments critical of the auction system for allocating radio spectrum. It was always clear, from both the Council and the Commission, that Member States had the choice of the system to allocate radio frequencies. The UK quite properly chose the auction system, and we do not concur with the criticism of this contained in these two reports. – Mr President, I welcome the part of the proposed resolution relating to health and meeting health targets. Firstly, the reduction of the prevalence of HIV-AIDS – a disease that has reduced life expectancy in sub-Saharan Africa from 62 to 47 years – is an absolutely essential target. There are reliable estimates to say that if the present state of the disease continues, every other 15-year-old girl in South Africa will die of HIV-AIDS. One way to combat this is through further development of microbicides. This particular form of preventive treatment can be singled out because, unlike conventional methods of protection, it allows women to take responsibility for its use. The problem is that investment in their development is not sufficient and such treatments are still several years away. There is a real problem in obtaining money for clinical trials. The second point is to draw the attention of colleagues to Parliament's own work on the Sixth Framework Programme. Through this programme the European Union has given high priority to combating poverty-linked infectious diseases, such as AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. Finally, I should like to mention access to medicines. I hope the present  about TRIPs and possible barriers to the most modern medicines will be overcome very shortly. There is also a shortage of generic medicines, the cheaper medicines and other forms of treatment, which are just as important in countries where poverty is so rife and where water standards are so poor. It is a priority and the European Union must do all it can to stave off one of the biggest threats to the global population – disease. – Vice-President, thank you for giving me the floor. With your permission I would like to re-raise the point of order that I tried to make just before the votes this morning. I will re-read the point that I wanted to make. I currently chair the European Parliament's delegation for relations with the United States of America and would like to raise a point of order under Parliament's rules concerning parliamentary delegations. It has come to my attention that a group of EPP Members visited the USA in July. Normally I would regard this as a private matter, but in the programme for the visit, which I can supply to you, the group is described as a delegation and in particular Mr Robert Goodwill, MEP, is described as leader of the delegation. This of course puts the visit in an entirely different context. An official delegation from Parliament, which I headed, visited the United States of America in June. I think that you will understand that confusion may well arise when another group of MEPs arrives in the USA some three weeks later as, to all intents and purposes, a second European Parliament delegation. I know that there was a strong anti-European tone to their reports, and this, of course, is a matter for the EPP, but when damaging and derogatory remarks about the European Union stem from what is purported to be an official visit from the European Parliament, I feel that the matter should be raised here. I would ask you as a matter of urgency to investigate whether Parliament's rules have been broken. Could you also ascertain whether the Members concerned had a formal invitation from relevant bodies in the USA and intend to declare their visit in the Members' register of interests? I will of course pass on the other documentation that I have received. – Mr President, Mrs Roth-Behrendt quoted from Shakespeare in her contribution and I would like to quote from Hamlet’s soliloquy: whether it is nobler to suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune or by opposing end them. As chair of the US delegation here in this Parliament, I am only too well aware of the many slings and arrows of outrageous fortune that make up the trade disputes between the EU and the United States of America. But having said that, it is important to get each trade dispute in proportion. Every one of us would want to welcome the small indication of progress that comes after the meetings with Secretary of State Slater and Ambassador Morningstar. I say this knowing full well the massive pressures there are upon Congress in an election year. I do not want to be too critical, we know only too well as parliamentarians about electoral pressures, but it is worth saying that the pressures in the United States are not so much from the citizens, from the voters, but from the big business backers of both parties and both campaigns and that makes an enormous difference. The Commissioner and others have outlined the basis of possible discussions. I will not go through all those again, but just say that there is a need not only for a timetable to agree stringent noise standards but also to agree a timetable in which they should be implemented. Mrs Roth-Berendt has mentioned a target with which I will concur. I want to make one other brief point, because this dispute highlights the need for earlier and more forthright discussions about the many issues over which there are disagreements. The delegation for relations with the US is planning, as you probably know, a transatlantic legislators’ dialogue using video-conferencing techniques so that we can discuss and understand – and clearly the Americans need to understand – what the powers of this Parliament are, the positive powers and also the negative powers and also the importance of timing in our joint negotiations. We need to learn lessons on both sides but I very much hope that even at this late stage there can be some sort of resolution. – Mr President, this is only the fourth point of order I have raised in nearly eleven years as an MEP, so I hope you will listen. I want to ask you and those others who preside over these sessions to be much more strict about points of order. We lost nearly half-an-hour this morning and many of the points of order that were raised then, and are often raised here, are things that Members have just thought of that they would like to share with others. That hardly constitutes a point of order. I suppose I feel particularly peeved because my own report on e-Europe, which is the only thing from this Parliament before the Lisbon Summit, has been squeezed off to a time when there will be a relatively poor attendance. I ask you – and I echo Mr Watson's point of order – to take those points back to your President and co-Vice-Presidents and ask them to be much tougher. It might make you unpopular in the short-run but I think it would make you loved and admired in the long-run. – Madam President, I too welcome the Commission statement and particularly look forward to the post-2005 report about the future of the textiles industry. Like other speakers, I also represent one of the regions of the European Union which is heavily dependent on textiles, the East Midlands. There are 2 000 textile companies and 60 000 people directly employed in the industry. It contributes GBP 4 billion a year to the regional economy. Opening up trade and access creates challenges. Some of our companies have responded by developing new types of technical textiles, for example a Hinckley company developed special flight socks, and a Derby company developed special heat-resistant clothing for use by firefighters. But we need to recognise within the EU that not all companies are able to evolve in this way. The Commissioner mentioned the essential sector of textiles for developing countries. It is true that developing countries’ economies could receive a huge boost for a more open trading regime, but this is not automatic and not without its problems. If we are not careful, we might end up with increased mobility of exploitation, which would hardly achieve either the goals of the EU or the legitimate goals of the poorer and poorest countries in the world. We should, of course, endeavour to use trade agreements to spread core labour values and to carry out the delicate task of improving conditions for workers in developing countries who often see such moves as hidden protectionism. We still see child labour, serious union repression and predominantly low-paid women. Those three factors, incidentally, are also present within the European Union. Commissioner, you have a Herculean task ahead of you to reconcile all of this, and we very much hope you are going to have success. It is necessary for textile workers within the EU and those many in other parts of the world who seek to earn their living and improve their own economies and their own lives through the textiles industry. – Madam President, would you, as President of our Parliament, consider sending a message of congratulations to Ellen MacArthur, my constituent from Derbyshire who came second in the round the world yacht race? I know that the race was won by a compatriot of yours – a Frenchman. He was gallant and kind in his congratulations. If you, on our behalf, could congratulate them both, I and many others would be very grateful. . – Mr President, I should like to offer my congratulations to the two rapporteurs on an enormously complicated and difficult task. They have highlighted – as will I – the importance of this industry a major employer of this industrial research base. It is so important to keep in the European Union, both for the European Union and, above all, for consumers who want safe, effective and affordable medicines. Added to that are the complex needs of the sectors in the industry, of which there are at least three: the in-patent sector, the generic sector and the over-the-counter sector. Many of the amendments are seeking to strike the correct balance between them. We have to encourage the in-patent sector to develop new medicines but the generic sector also provides affordable medicines. If you add to this the whole question of access and affordability on a global scale, you can see just how complex an area this is. I want to draw attention to just three points. One is the authorisation procedure. I am urging colleagues to accept duality, at least in the immediate future. Mrs Grossetête perhaps needs to re-examine the whole question of the centralised procedure and access. The fact that medicines are authorised does not mean that they are automatically placed on the market. This applies particularly to veterinary medicines. In their case I really believe that duality should continue. On the question of advertising and consumer information, I urge Parliament to accept the amendment that asks the Commission to look again at this issue. The Commission is right – information is available to some, but not to all. That is almost beyond our control. On data exclusivity, the balance that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has come up with is the right one. I hope that Parliament will look at it sensibly. We are going to have an important second reading and possibly a conciliation, so we still have time to try and get this even more right that we have done so far. .  Mr President, I am delighted to present these two reports to you. I will deal with the easier one first, the eTEN programme, which the Commissioner has outlined with admirable clarity. I want to recommend to Parliament that it accept the Commission proposal. I was interested that the budget blood still runs in the Commissioner's veins. He was quite right to point out that this proposal is a reallocation of an existing budget and is not about raising the total budget. However, if the 10% ceiling is raised to 30%, it will mean the deployment of fewer but more focused projects in the future. The Commissioner again is quite right that when the potential for deployment of a product is recognised, the main barriers it faces are financial ones. There are difficulties which we well know in obtaining private capital for initial investment in this area. To raise the ceiling in this way is a proper use of funds in the eTEN budget programme. I hope that the Commission proposal is accepted and I have not tabled amendments, nor have other colleagues, which is the right thing to do. The IDA programme is more complicated. I had hoped that we would get a first-reading agreement on this but this proved not to be possible. In some ways, for very good reasons, the Council showed a good degree of diligence in its considerations of this proposal. What we are looking at here is extending the IDA successes in cross-border cooperation and communication between public administrations. This will build on that and also extend this cooperation to citizens and to businesses. However, there are also important changes which relate to the procedure, which has been streamlined and simplified. It is good that lessons have been learned from previous IDA work. The Commissioner knows that I was the rapporteur on two or three separate IDA proposals and I note with some wry humour that this was long before the phrase 'eGovernment' was widely used or even invented. However, the proposal can and will have real benefits. The Commission estimates that for every euro spent on IT infrastructure, the public sector can gain up to EUR 1.8. The annual cost of the TESTA programme, the part of IDA that deals with infrastructure, is EUR 4.6 million. The benefits are estimated to be EUR 8.6 million across the public sector: a genuine multiplier. The new programme will be called IDABC. I will read to you what it means because it is sometimes easy to forget: Interoperable Delivery of pan-European eGovernment Services to Public Administrations, Businesses and Citizens. Although it is a real mouthful, we can point to the IDA successes as bringing real benefits to European Union citizens in ways that really touch their lives. IDA is currently working in the following areas: agriculture, humanitarian aid, the internal market, statistics, environment, trade, employment and education. I pulled out here, and in my explanatory statement, five or six specific projects: the Solvit network, which provides a mechanism for people who come up against barriers to the internal market to raise the issue with the Member State concerned; the Euphin programme, which enables authorities to exchange data on public health issues, including communicable diseases in a fast and secure way; Ploteus, a portal that supplies information on learning opportunities around Europe; TourNet, a system for linking tourism administrations so that they can share information about their own particular areas; and finally Transcards, a more local and focused programme, which allows citizens living on the French-Belgian border to use the health facilities of either Member State, regardless of which country they live in. They are all good, quotable examples of tangible benefits the IDA way. This new proposal will bring not only tangible benefits in the IDA way, it will also bring benefits to European citizens and businesses. It will facilitate the free movement of people, goods and services by making eGovernment applications more accessible across national boundaries. I very much hope that Parliament supports the Commission proposal in the way that I have amended it and I commend it to you. Lastly, I should like to make a very brief comment on the report by my colleague, Mr Clegg. I will not go into the detail. He has done an excellent job here and is quite rightly using very specific language about some of the shortcomings of Member States. The Commissioner indicated his seriousness as regards addressing those Member States which did not meet the due deadlines: the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy made it clear that it would back him if he wanted to take the action he has outlined. I am confident that Parliament will also support him in this. We are already getting some indications that the accession countries are saying that they do not have enough time and need more breathing space. It is difficult to resist those arguments if existing Member States, which should be well able to transpose and implement, have not done so. I commend my own two reports, and that of Mr Clegg, to the House. .  Mr President, I will not need five minutes, which is not an indication of the importance of this report – quite the reverse. The MODINIS programme aims to create a legal base for the continuation of activities for monitoring the eEurope plan from 2003 to 2005 and for the dissemination of best practices. It also allows for the launch of preparatory actions for the development of a European policy in the area of network and information security. To indicate the sort of actions that are going to be financed in order to reach the goals set out in the programme, it covers things such as data collection, a revised set of benchmark indicators, studies to identify good practices in Europe, workshops and studies, looking in particular at the adjustment of industry to the structural change generated by digital technologies and the transformation of society. One interesting activity which is of particular value is the support of the Information Society Forum, consisting of web-based experts and looking at challenges facing the development of the information society and, of course, the normal programme of targeted conferences, seminars and workshops. There are many others. The question for our second reading is: how is this to be financed? Because the dates are crucial. The work is to cover the years 2003 to 2005, and we are already well into 2003. The original European Parliament proposal for the budget was EUR 25 million and the dilemma I faced was how to reach some sort of compromise that was not delayed so long that it would prevent the money reaching its necessary targets. After some discussion with both the Commission and the Council, I have proposed a compromise of EUR 21 million, remembering that this figure will be adjusted in the event of enlargement. This is a good basis for a compromise and I think that colleagues from all sides of the House will support this compromise budget provision. When we do that, it will enable the MODINIS programme, which is very carefully and tightly focused on achievable objectives, to help us reach the Lisbon goals. I commend both the amendments and the report to you. Mr President, I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Mr van Velzen, who has worked so hard and with his customary thoroughness to get us to the stage of this compromise. I particularly want to draw attention to some things that are in the compromise and some things that, quite properly, are no longer there. Firstly, I draw attention to the special needs of the trading bodies that apply particularly in the United Kingdom, such as the Meteorological Office, the Ordnance Survey and the British Geological Survey, which, unless they had been protected with the ability to get a reasonable return on investment, would have had their own work and their own positions seriously jeopardised. I am grateful to the rapporteur for the way in which he has accommodated this. Secondly, the cost calculation method is included in the criteria. That is important for all sorts of people and organisations which, we hope, will make use of the ability to re-use public sector documents. It is right that libraries, museums, universities and other archives, which would have been covered in the original proposal, are now excluded from the directive. Once we all realised what a serious disadvantage they would have, there was an agreement that such a proposal should no longer be included. When I took over as shadow rapporteur on this report, I did it with little knowledge of how interesting it would be and how, very soon, it would become apparent that the re-use of public sector documents would prove to be such an important economic motor. We can see the limited re-use which currently exists, how it can be extended and how important it is going to be, as the previous speaker said, in the Lisbon conclusions. I want to draw attention to just one other thing, namely the review of this directive, in which I hope this Parliament will be involved in future. One of the things that rightly concerns many of us is the extent to which this directive would encourage cross-border re-use. If we discover in our review period, when the Commission does this, that cross-border re-use has either not happened or been very limited, then we might well have to revisit some of the elements in this particular proposal. Otherwise, I commend to you Mr van Velzen's work and the compromise for which my group will happily vote. We look forward in the future to seeing how the fruits of this work are going to bring immediate benefits – long-term benefits, employment benefits and business benefits – to the citizens of the European Union. – President, Commissioner, colleagues, can I add my congratulations to the Commission and to my two colleagues, the rapporteurs, on the speed and thoroughness of their reports. I want to comment on both reports in a very few, but I hope, significant respects. On Mr Paasilinna’s report, I want to comment, and perhaps ask the Commission to comment on the whole question of the balance between regulation and liberalisation. Mr Caudron touched on this in his remarks to the effect that the benefits of liberalisation have been felt disproportionately in the business community and those who make long distance and national calls while domestic consumers have benefited much less, particularly those who make very few calls, or people who live on their own. I want to ask the Commissioner about the speed of regulation and the purpose of regulation. It was good to see the Commission taking very urgent action, for example, in respect of leased line and the charges for leased lines where the existing legislation had not been properly implemented. The differences in attitude, ethos, resources and the degree of independence among the national regulators are still a cause for concern. On the report on spectrum, others have mentioned the question of to what extent it matters that different systems for deciding on third generation mobile licences have been sorted out. It  significant and I would like the Commission to comment on this in respect of third generation mobiles, and digital television, which are the two areas where the European Union has a lead. I also want to ask the Commissioner whether he thinks the application of the subsidiarity principle in respect of the allocation of licences might do something to narrow that lead. If he thinks so, if he thinks the differences in methods are going to distort competition, is he able to tell this House what steps he will take to monitor and address that question? – Mr President, I was in Washington last week leading the European Parliament delegation responsible for our relations with the United States Congress and we started our pre-Commission briefing at 9:00 a.m. on Tuesday, 11 September 2001, just after the first plane had hit one of the towers and just before the second. Needless to say, our briefing did not go on for very long and we, like so many in the United States, were soon sitting in front of television sets, shocked and silent. That was the mood in America in Tuesday. By Wednesday, people were angry and frightened, understandably, and so were we. Later there was much more thoughtfulness and a more considered response. The many messages from the European Union, and indeed from the European Parliament, plus the many personal messages of support and solidarity, were very much appreciated. We were able to fulfil part of our delegation duties, we met members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the Congress and had some very useful, although very sad discussions with them. The question they put to us was: How will Europe help us? Will Europe support us? That was really most difficult. It would have been premature and inappropriate for a partial delegation to respond. Of course, we did not know how we should respond. I made a statement to Congress on behalf of the delegation which was lodged in the Congressional Records and I hope with your permission it can be lodged in our own Parliament records as well. This statement stressed, apart, of course, from the natural sympathy that we wanted to express, that this had to be tackled by the United States of America and the European Union and many other countries in partnership. It is becoming ever clearer that the response must be measured and proportionate, and the consequences for all must be anticipated and planned. There is a clear need for major diplomatic and political initiatives to maintain cooperation with those countries nearest to any possible targets or military action and those at most risk from the consequences. We may be facing terrible times ahead but it is essential that we have the courage as well as the compassion to consider carefully the alternatives. I would like to express my thanks to the many here, including the President, who expressed their concerns for our safety and well-being and particularly to my fellow MEPs, including Mr Belder, Mrs Peijs, my two vice-chairman, the other MEPs, the Parliament staff, Council and Commission staff interpreters and particularly the Commission staff in Washington. They were endlessly kind in what was a most difficult week. Mr President, I wanted to ask a brief question about the European Patients' Platform and to ask the two Commissioners whether they are happy about the degree of independence of those who represent patients. I do so against the background of articles published in the  in the United Kingdom. If the Commissioners have not had sight of these articles I would be happy to let them have them. We all understand that without the support of the pharmaceuticals industry there would be very few patients' voices, but that voice does not come without a price. I would be interested in your views on that. – Mr President, I want to echo Mr Harbour's congratulations to Mr Belder. He really has worked not only very hard, but also in a very open, intelligent and approachable way. I think we are seeing the fruits of that method of working in this report. It has been a great privilege to be part of that. Indeed, access at its best is the great equaliser, the great force for democracy. That is why this report is so important: it is providing a mechanism in terms of active citizenship, which is becoming more and more important, for instance electronic democracy. We are moving towards electronic voting; methods of being engaged as an active citizen more and more depend on access. But the reason why I wanted to be shadow rapporteur on this report, and to support Mr Belder, was that, for disabled people, access to work depends more and more on access to the web. Mr Harbour is quite right that much of this does not depend on money, or at least not on huge sums of money, and Mr Belder has been absolutely correct to enter into wide consultation with disabled people themselves. They already are in a position over and over again to explain to us what is needed, what will work and what will help them. I want to draw attention particularly to paragraph 4 of the motion for a resolution, and I shall quote from it, because it says that disabled people not only should be able to read web pages, but also should be enabled to manage the content of web pages. In other words, they are not only passive receivers of information, but also serious contributors. That is absolutely important. My final point is that this is all part of the Lisbon agenda, making Europe e-friendly and e-workable, and it is going to mean that if this principle is carried through into other areas of work, disabled European Union citizens will be able to participate on much more equal terms in this respect than we have seen to date. – Madam President, you will know that the City of Strasbourg is twinned with the City of Leicester, my home city. The Lord Mayor of Leicester, Councillor John Allen and the Lady Mayoress, Mrs Allan, are in the public gallery. This twinning is an important political and social union and I very much hope you will welcome the Lord Mayor and the Lady Mayoress here in Strasbourg. .  Mr President, I am delighted to present this report on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on IDABC. I have been the rapporteur on several previous occasions and have had the pleasure of seeing the IDABC programme grow. We have seen improvements in the effectiveness of cross-border cooperation between public administrations and what is now being proposed is that this be extended to businesses and to citizens. The journal that the Commission publishes on IDABC often mentions the IDABC way and it is important to emphasise that the IDABC way is about eMethodology: not only about the projects, but looking at the way in which those projects are developed. IDABC is a means to an end, a means to interactive government services at a pan-European level and it is absolutely logical to want to extend this now to businesses and to citizens. I have submitted just three amendments after discussions with the Commission. They are technical amendments, which will give legal clarification to the original text. I shall spend a couple of minutes talking about why this is so important. It is about giving value in terms of quality of services. It is about encouraging citizens to be better informed in voicing their own praises and their own criticisms of those services. It is about economies of scale and sharing common services. It is true that IDABC has been a driver of modernisation of public services and a contributor, as it will continue to be, to eGovernment in the candidate countries. It is also important that one of the achievements of IDABC is that it can give our citizens practical, very workmanlike examples of how the European Union, the Commission, Parliament, the Council have worked together to bring citizen-friendly benefits from the European Union to the Member States. I commend the report to you. I particularly thank my colleagues at the Commission who continue to work so hard and so effectively on this. I also thank the Council presidency, which took its time, but did so because it wanted to put down constructive and progressive amendments that were born of its own experience of the implementation of IDABC at Member State level. – Madam President, I rise on a point of order concerning my friend Roger Helmer. We share the honour of being representatives for the East Midlands – information I give to this House more in shame than in anger. Mr McCartin pointed out quite rightly that Mr Helmer had no understanding of history. In the interests of accuracy: Mr Helmer has no understanding of politics, of statistics, of literature, of courtesy towards a fellow Member State of the European Union – and I could go on for a considerable amount of time. . – I have voted against Amendment No 9, even though I have considerable sympathy with the principle raised; but Internet access does have a cost, and if the "at no cost to the user" principle is to be taken forward, the question of who bears the cost must be clarified. This amendment introduces a very broad issue of major importance into a report on a very specific dimension of Internet access. – Mr President, on a point of order, I want to make a complaint about my colleague, Mr Helmer. He produces an electronic newsletter called ‘Straight Talking’ and in that he has written what I consider to be a very serious insult to Mrs Nicole Fontaine. He describes her views as socialist verging on Marxist – which I think would come as a surprise to Mrs Fontaine, as well as to others in this House – but the most serious thing he says is that the title of her memoirs should be ‘Mein Kampf’. That is a serious matter and I would like to invite Mr Helmer, through you, Mr President, either to apologise and retract these remarks, or alternatively to explain them. – Mr President, I want to congratulate Mrs Mann on her carefully prepared work and have great pleasure in supporting it. The importance, as Mrs Mann has emphasised and the Commission proposed, of a single budget line, is not just about simplifying Parliament’s work. It is so that we can properly evaluate and vote on what money we are spending on which projects so that the Commission and Parliament can jointly consider what is best value for money and how we need to spend money in the future. The emphasis Mrs Mann has given to the importance of clarity about the division of responsibility between the Community and the Member States in the field of export promotion is also crucial. There is some sensitivity about this and clarity about the budget line and the legal base are not only going to help us to do our work in a more logical way but also reassure the Member States that there is a proper allocation of responsibilities. I want to comment very briefly on two other matters. I was very pleased as President of the delegation between this Parliament and the US Congress that the transatlantic legislators’ dialogue merited a mention in the budget report. You know, colleagues, how much emphasis this Parliament has put on the TLD. And Mrs Mann’s report mentioned, among the many other excellent projects, the European Institute in Washington supported by the Commission. It is just one example, but an excellent one, of how cooperation, not only financial but political, industrial and commercial, can pay very considerable dividends. I am delighted to support Mrs Mann and as I am finishing my speech with one second to spare, I hope I will receive a bit of applause for that. – Mr President, the rapporteur, Mr van Velzen, is to be congratulated on having produced a balanced and well-founded report and a balanced and well-founded speech in support of it. I can applaud, as always, his comprehension of the need to regulate but with carefully argued parameters. It is right to remind ourselves that when we talk about regulation, it is not something of which we have either more or less; within the European Union we plan to regulate for a purpose, for a goal, over a certain period of time. It is good, too, that Mr van Velzen's report has a clear appreciation of what the convergence of various technologies means. He and many other contributors to this debate have reflected on how both Parliament and the Commission have been able to look at what has happened in the past and try and guess – educated guesses – about what may happen in the future. Where we have not guessed correctly, we have been able to put things right. The speed of change, not only in terms of technology, but also in global competition in this field, has meant that the margin of error is much less. This is why this report is so important. It lays the groundwork for the future development of the Commission's plans and Parliament's response for this industry. The Socialist Group will not be able to support all of the amendments and the details of qualified criticisms of the "auctions versus beauty contest" proposals. We had hoped to be able to have split votes on that. I regret that we cannot; nor can I support the amendment that calls for mobile telephones and the mobiles market to be excluded. We ought to take great care not to introduce rules that limit growth in this startlingly versatile market. Nor do we want to enter into a situation where mobiles are excluded and other forms of telecommunications are included. Finally, I would like to draw attention to Amendments Nos 3 and 4. Amendment No 3 calls for a clearer and unambiguous formulation of the political aims and principles underlying the further development of the European telecommunications market, which is absolutely essential. Amendment No 4 highlights the urgent need to devote special attention to implementing the existing directives so that major differences in the liberalisation of national markets do not become entrenched and thereby hamper the implementation of new rules. We still have 15 partially liberalised and still largely segmented markets. What we have here is the basis for opening up the European Union market in a genuine sense. I commend Mr van Velzen's report to you and congratulate him again on it; and I congratulate the Commission on the speed, diligence and thoughtfulness with which it has approached the redrafting and relaunching of European Union legislation in this field. – Can I start by congratulating Mr Clegg on the speed and quality of his work and also welcoming him to this rather exclusive band of Members who so often are here late at night debating telecommunications issues. Indeed Commissioner Liikanen's predecessor, Commissioner Bangemann described us once as 'we few, we happy few, we band of brothers'. He rather ignored the sisters but I think you get the drift from his Shakespearian quote. I should also like to comment on the legal instrument – the regulation – because it is exceptional and historic and there are very special reasons: reasons of speed – post-Lisbon summit – and reasons of technical consistency which I think we all appreciate and understand. Parliament must be ready to look at new ways of working, imaginative and, as Mr Harbour says, adventurous. But we also must make it clear when such measures are appropriate and it is almost certain that the other parts of this latest telecommunications package are going to take rather longer and will be along more traditional lines. I want to comment too on one very important part of Mr Clegg's proposal which relates to the powers of national regulators and powers of initiative, which I think are very important components in the speedy and consistent enforcement and implementation of this regulation. Others have mentioned the Lisbon summit and it is of course right to stress that this legislation follows a commitment from the European Union Member States to support the growth and use of the Internet in Europe under the e-Europe action plan. Much of this would not happen without this promise to provide affordable, high-speed Internet access and we note the importance of unbundling in the success of the e-Europe plan. It is also true that the combined efforts of the Commission, Parliament and the Council have brought about this legislation as part of an overall effort to modernise telecommunications law. This effort will bring openness, transparency and competition to the industry while balancing the need for regulation with the desire for liberalisation. We have more legislation ahead of us and we have to learn the lessons from so much of the legislation with which we have been jointly involved over many years in the past. Then we tried to look backwards, to extrapolate from what we had done, before looking forwards and guessing, second-guessing or third-guessing what lay ahead of us. We made mistakes in such a fast-moving and volatile market but I would like to end with the point that if Europe is to stay competitive, to stay in this field, to bring the very real benefits of e-Europe to all the citizens of the European Union, to remain ahead in third-generation mobiles – if I can jump ahead – vis-à-vis the United States of America, it is going to need all our combined efforts to make sure that the total package is safely accomplished. – Mr President, I speak in support of the Roth-Behrendt report and congratulate the rapporteur on the quality and thoroughness of her report. I note with approval too that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy have adopted all but one of the amendments of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. Colleagues, without doubt, there is major and well-grounded public abhorrence about the use of animals for testing ingredients in cosmetics, and all concerned want better protection for animals worldwide. This has been reflected in the consistent line this Parliament has taken in the past. The cosmetics industry is about marketing glamour, dreams and illusions and I am not as critical as some previous speakers about this. Without doubt much of the responsible sector of the cosmetics industry has taken considerable strides in moving towards fewer tests on animals, but public opinion is well-grounded and it is good that it has been reflected, not just in the past, but strongly reiterated and strengthened in the Roth-Behrendt report. We cannot know about the WTO. There has been no challenge yet and the arguments in my view ring a bit hollow from the United States of America about the possible neglect of our international obligations in the same week as President Bush has so publicly repudiated the Kyoto agreement on climate change. Nevertheless, it may well be that the international cosmetics industry draws back from a WTO challenge if they know that the full glare of public scrutiny is focused on testing ingredients on animals. It is right that we hold the line. This report is well worked out in its detail. If it does lead to a challenge under the WTO rules then we from the European Union will have to argue our corner vigorously. If we listen to those arguments, we would do almost nothing in this Parliament. It is not that we are insensitive to those arguments, but that we place them in a context of what is the stronger and the greater good. I commend the Roth-Behrendt report to you. – Mr President, could I start my contribution by offering my congratulations to Commissioner Monti and his officials for the scrupulous and professional way in which they dealt with the proposed MCI Worldcom – Sprint merger. I would particularly to thank him and his officials for trying to see trade unionists from all over the European Union and indeed from the United States of America, who had an opportunity to put their views. Without doubt, one of the consequences of mergers and takeovers is the effect on employment and I know that the Commissioner, within the confines of the Treaty, is sensitive to this. What also needs to be stressed is that there are special technological reasons why a concentration of ownership, the potential abuse of a dominant position, is so serious. In most other industries such a concentration or potential abuse might be temporary, but in this field if any one company does secure such a strong position it will almost certainly have it, if not forever, then at least for a very long time. In your presentation, Commissioner, you mentioned the danger of one company gaining control over these markets. This really is a dilemma for Parliament and for the Commission. We accept the near inevitability and in many cases the desirability of mergers and takeovers, but we also see the potential and actual dangers. Parliament is consistent in its view that we do not want to put any obstacles in the way of competitiveness and innovation. We welcome the position that you have taken on this particular issue. One other small point: much of this competition is between the European Union and the United States of America. I know you are well aware how crucial it is for Europe to lead in the two important spheres of third generation mobile telephones and digital television and I hope that you will continue your efforts to keep that lead, which is so crucial to jobs, employment and prosperity in the European Union. – Mr President, I congratulate all four rapporteurs, who have worked long and hard on their dossiers. I also welcome my fellow veterans of information technology debates. We might have to award ourselves a Lisbon medal for stamina at some stage. I take your point about the timing of this debate. We in this Parliament should be ashamed that the signal sent out to those few who are listening at this time of night is one of a lack of seriousness on our part. We need to join together and make serious protests in the future. I should like, first of all, to comment on Mr Van Velzen's report on reuse of public information. I commend him on the amount of work he has put into this. What is important about this proposal? First of all, it is important that progress be made. What has become very clear to me as I have shadowed this report is what an important economic engine reuse of public information is going to be. We need to make sure that progress is made on that. Secondly, it is important to support the exemptions included in the Commission proposal for universities, libraries and museums across the European Union. We want that exemption to continue. The third thing of importance is to ensure a reasonable return on investment. I have listened carefully to what the rapporteur had to say. I want the amendment in the name of my group – Amendment No 33 – to stand. It clarifies Parliament's position. I hope this will be supported. A reasonable return on investment is important and should be taken into consideration. I understand there is likely to be a major second reading and quite a lot of work to be done at Council level. No doubt we will be able to return to this at a later stage. I would now like to turn to the report by Mr Paasilinna who, with his customary thoroughness and ability to make practical proposals, has come up with some well-thought-out ideas on education, health, disabled citizens and the elderly, and the importance of ensuring access for rural areas and small businesses. All of that is to be commended. Mr Khanbhai, who does not seem to be here, ended his speech by saying that he wanted to have fun. I am not sure how much fun he thinks is associated with debates held at this time of night on this subject. He is right in one respect: as important as this for business, it is also important in terms of the quality of people's lives and what they do with their leisure time. Mrs Auroi had a very difficult task. I congratulate her. In terms of her work, I should like to stress the importance of 3G companies and technologies being soundly managed and well run. That has not always been the case on a global scale. Perhaps I should start with a historical, not current, declaration of interest on why I have voted in favour of Amendment No 5, Article 1(6), concerning junior doctors. My husband, Dr Rhys Jenkins, currently a GP and working restricted hours, has in the past worked in excess of 100 hours a week whilst training to become a doctor. This first-hand knowledge has highlighted for me the dangers of requiring doctors to work such long hours. This potentially endangers the lives of patients and certainly can have a detrimental effect on doctors’ health. I believe that a much delayed and staggered transition such as that proposed by the Council of Ministers is unnecessary and inappropriate. In addition there is a particularly acute problem in Wales where the British Medical Association calculates that 30% of junior doctors are working longer than the recommended 40 hours a week. The figure in Scotland by comparison is calculated at 10%. There is a huge problem in terms of recruitment in the profession, and a haemorrhaging of trained doctors to other countries due to the excessive working hours. – Mr President, Commissioner, you will be aware that the Regional and Transport Committee has started its deliberations on social and economic cohesion via the second cohesion report and that this report launches the debate on how we face up to the challenges of regional funding and structural policy in an enlarged Europe. However, whilst I am grateful for the Commissioner's statement today, my group is still disappointed with the Commission as it appears that it has not used its right of initiative and has not engaged itself fully on this topic. It raises the question as to what the real proposals of the Commission are. Commissioner Barnier referred to the meeting in May in which many Members participated, but again nothing concrete seems to have come out of that meeting. On our side of the political divide, we recognised at an early stage how sensitive this issue could be and indeed our experience of Agenda 2000 was the catalyst that told us this. But then Commissioner Wulf-Matthies facilitated a common position with Parliament and so we feel that the time is now right for us to start work with the Commission as it becomes more active, positive and decisive. My group has discussed in detail the questions that you have posed. The main points emanating from our discussion revolve around the principle of keeping the concept of social and economic cohesion and its most representative instrument, namely the Cohesion Fund. But a thorough discussion is required on implementing the goals of the cohesion policy before we make any decisions on the future financing of structural aid. At the moment, we are facing a number of great challenges and any discussion on the implementation of Cohesion Fund has to include other areas under the umbrella of sustainable development, such as employment and agriculture. We must continue to ensure that the poorer regions that presently receive structural aid are not mistreated in the future and that Community initiatives, such INTERREG and URBAN, are retained. We also question whether 1.27% of the Community GDP, as was decided on in Agenda 2000, is enough with regard to the new Cohesion Fund. In launching this debate, it is our view that our discussions would have been more fruitful and more meaningful if the Commission had come forward with ideas of its own so that it could act as a facilitator of those discussions. We know that it is an important issue. At the moment, we are left with a series of questionnaires, but we can give the Commissioner a guarantee that our group will be fully involved in discussions in the coming months. Mr President, it may be worthwhile just to reflect for one moment on why it was thought necessary to introduce legislation to make compensation a legal right for those air passengers who face cancellation and delay through no fault of their own. It was thought necessary because some airlines had got into a very bad habit of cancelling flights at the last minute, overbooking flights, inflicting delay because of inefficient operational practices and then, to add insult to injury, they treated their victims – their passengers – with total disdain and little or no sympathy. Members may wish to dwell on the fact that a voluntary code of practice did exist with the more reliable airlines. However, the refusal of the so-called low-cost carriers to sign up to this voluntary agreement and the low levels of compensation given to the victims meant action on a more formal basis was required. The pendulum had to swing back in favour of the consumer to a more reasonable, balanced position. The proposal before us is a first step in ensuring that the travelling public are protected when transport operators fail to live up to their promises and obligations. I look forward to similar schemes being introduced with other modes, particularly ferries and so-called high-speed ships. What we have before us today is not perfect. I regret that the Council of Ministers insisted on charter flights being included. I also regret the removal of extraordinary circumstances in the delay section, but welcome the exemption of rotor operators, the levels of compensation agreed and the inclusion of the low-cost carriers. This proposal is not perfect: it poses many questions in regard to existing legislation and highlights areas where existing legislation is inadequate. I cite the package travel directive as one example. But we must recognise that at last consumers and the travelling public are being given rights that they deserve, backed up with compensation when airlines fail in their promises. Over recent months I have been subjected to every kind of doom-and-gloom scenario from some airlines and even certain Members of Parliament. But remember this: if the airlines do not cancel or overbook, if they run the services they advertise on time and stick to their contract with the travelling public, then this proposal will not cost them one euro. It becomes expensive to airlines when they fail to deliver – and what is wrong with that? – Mr President, I welcome with satisfaction the proposals before us because I believe that not only will aviation safety in general be improved, but this will also strengthen cooperation procedures, as well as reinforcing preventive strategies. Importantly, this report will also offer an adequate degree of confidentiality for the people closely involved, who have the most intimate knowledge of how to run a safe aviation industry: I refer to aircraft crew, air traffic controllers and maintenance personnel. It is also important for us to stress best practice, particularly in the area of research and development. Here we welcome the setting up of the European Coordination Centre for Aviation Incident Reporting. That is why we support the rapporteur, who has been as careful as ever to ensure consistency between EU legislation and the international framework provided by the ICAO. This is also the reason why we cannot accept the excessive restrictions implied by some amendments adopted in committee, especially those that seek to hide the responsibilities of the operators. Companies will not become safer and more competitive if we hide these responsibilities. We believe that customers have the right to be fully informed. Similarly we cannot accept those amendments that deliberately try to weaken the position of people in the industry, whose duty it is to accurately point out incidents. To have a reliable system of occurrences reporting in civil aviation, we have to ensure confidentiality for the people who report them. The Commission's proposals are right, even if there may be a risk of legal implications. The only risk to safety we can see comes from an attempt to dilute the proposals in favour of the airline companies. I thank Mr Collins for his excellent report and hope that his common sense approach will be adopted by Parliament. . – The discussion about how the European policy of economic and social cohesion should be shaped after 2006 is far from being completed. It is not the moment for the European Parliament to lay down any clear criterion. The aim of this report is to indicate the direction which the Parliament wants the discussion to take. As long as we do not have more detailed information about the future needs of the regions lagging economically behind the average of the Union, it would be a political mistake to say that we want exactly the same criteria that apply now. That is why the PSE group voted against the rapporteur's Amendment 12. – Mr President, it is not my intention to delay the House any longer than we have to. I do not want to get into the argument about the amendments because that can be sorted out by a vote. One point should be made, however; the process is not ideal. Mrs Doyle and other Members are right but the problem we are faced with in the Regional and Transport Committee, which is the committee responsible, is that at the very last minute we were asked for urgency by the Council because somebody, somewhere, realised that we needed a resolution from this House to carry on the particular fund in question. Therefore, the only way we could do that was by this very quick procedure, through the committee on Tuesday, by a letter from the President. We thought we had an understanding that there would not be any amendments. Sadly, that has not been the case. It is only fair to point out that given the time we had to do this, the committee and the Parliament have worked as effectively and as quickly as we possibly can in what proved to be difficult circumstances so that the money could be released next year for this very important fund. – Mr President, I want to highlight the areas of the work programme which affect directly the work of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. With regard to regional policy, my group would like to see the Commission ensure the full application of the partnership principle at all levels of programming of the Structural Funds. We, along with other groups in this Parliament, are still waiting for the Commission to present a proposal laying down the practical arrangements for the implementation of the code of conduct that would facilitate cooperation and proper scrutiny. When, Mr President, will the Commission go further on spatial planning and submit new proposals to develop the decision taken at the informal Council meetings, notably at Potsdam and Tampere? Regarding transport and tourism, I and my group welcome the proposals reinforcing transport safety although we need more concrete proposals on road safety and in particular, the issue of blood-alcohol levels and speed limits. I also welcome the ongoing commitment to the Galileo project and the review of the TENs strategy, especially with its highlight on the railway sector, a sector which we believe to be very important indeed. However, I have to say to you that my group deplores the fact that several dossiers at this moment are blocked in Council. We also want progress on both the working time directive and the slot allocation at airport directive, as well as measures to end the misery in air traffic control delays in Europe at this moment. We are also concerned, President Prodi, at the lack of proposals concerning the tourism sector, a sector in which so many of our citizens work. I regret that transport issues do not appear to have been taken seriously into account in the enlargement chapter and would encourage the Commission to present proposals to ensure better coordination between structural actions and instruments and the PHARE and TACIS programmes. I also want to insist that Parliament’s views and wishes on postal services, often stated in this chamber, are taken fully into account in any new proposals. Whilst I am grateful to Mr Prodi for outlining the Commission’s work programme this morning, I have to say that in the areas of regional policy, transport and tourism, the programme is more notable for what is missing than for what is in it, and I would hope that over the next year we could put those matters right. Mr President, I would like to welcome Mr Sterckx's report which, in our view, is comprehensive and highlights the catalogue of decisions that culminated in the  disaster. I must also pay tribute to our rapporteur for his hard work on the production of a well thought-out, highly considered, fair and balanced report. This report highlights the many failings of a number of authorities and yet comes forward with some positive ideas on how we can avoid a repeat of the  disaster. My colleague Mrs Miguélez Ramos will no doubt highlight the effects that this disaster has had and continues to have on the Galician coast. She, above everyone, knows the heartache that this disaster has caused and I pay tribute to her tireless efforts on behalf of the people of Galicia. So many other questions have been raised by the Sterckx Report that my Group and I believe that further work is necessary. Further investigation into the events surrounding the loss of the  is needed. There should be further analysis of the economic and ecological disaster that has not only occurred but continues to occur for the people of Galicia and other areas. Furthermore, there should be an analysis into the adequacy of present EU maritime regulations, present IMO regulations and the actions – or perhaps, more appropriately, the lack of action – of some of our Member States. Mr President, the PSE Group, the Greens and the GUE/NGL Group have consistently called for a committee of inquiry. Because of the excellent work of Mr Sterckx and by way of a compromise, we can now drop that demand in favour of a request to the Conference of Presidents for a temporary committee to carry on the work of Mr Sterckx and to find the answers to the questions that he and others have posed. That is the least we could do for the people of Galicia and other affected areas. I support the rapporteur's call for such a committee in his Amendment No 11. Anything less from this Parliament would be an abdication of our responsibilities and a total abandonment, not only of the people of Galicia, but of the whole population of the European Union. We on this side of the House are not prepared to let that happen. We are prepared to back Parliament's rapporteur and look to the other side of this House to do the same. The time for political posturing is over: it is now time for action. Let me make our position clear, in light of the rapporteur's final conclusions in his speech concerning the issue of a temporary committee: it is 'no' to any dilution of Amendment No 11 and it is 'no' to any alteration to a future temporary committee's remit. Amendment No 11 is balanced, needed, well-supported and gets to the heart of the problem. To dilute or alter it would be unacceptable and a move born out of political gerrymandering, not a move in favour of maritime safety. I hope that this makes the PSE's position on Amendment No 11 crystal clear. – Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Sterckx for his report which addresses an important aspect of the civil aviation industry. There is no doubt that civil aviation has grown considerably over the last ten years and it is predicted to continue growing in the foreseeable future. There are those who would argue that this is due solely to the liberalisation process within that sector. Whilst I and my Group recognise that this has had a considerable effect on aviation’s growth, other factors have also contributed. In the initial stages of liberalisation, a lot of people lost their jobs, those who remained had to work longer hours and others suffered a deterioration in their working conditions. Also, on some routes, fares increased while others were so cheap that airlines went bust or built up huge losses. Another result of liberalisation has been the practice of co-sharing, of airline alliances, and in some instances even takeovers. We are beginning to see now an increase in aircraft registered outside the EU similar to the maritime sector’s flag of convenience. At my own airport in Manchester there are Icelandic-registered aircraft and I have been to Iceland more times than they have. The reason why I mention these points is just to lend some balance to the argument. It is very easy to say that liberalisation in aviation has been a glowing success, without ever recognising that there is also a negative side. My Group accepts that gradual liberalisation is a way forward but only if safety, working conditions and passenger rights are safe-guarded and strengthened. We accept that an increasing number of EU citizens are demanding better services. My Group welcomes the latest decision by the Commission to launch a campaign to inform passengers of their rights – something which the airlines in particular have failed to do over many years. We believe we need something more to ensure that passengers are better protected from delays and cancellations. We have all heard the excuses offered by the airlines, ranging from “aircraft going technical”, which is aviation-speak for ‘I’m afraid there are not enough people booked on so we are going to consolidate’. “Air traffic delays” is the next one, but of course that is an easy excuse because there is never anyone from air traffic control there to say that is not the issue. Then of course there is the ‘get them on board’ scenario, irrespective of whether the plane is going to leave or not. Without doubt aviation has made considerable progress, but I also believe that aviation has a responsibility to its passengers, to its workforce, and also to the environment. Finally, my Group looks forward to receiving from the Commission its new proposals regarding slot-allocation, even though they have been a long time in coming. I hope this document will embody the view of the fair market access for all, in particular in clarifying the present legislative position regarding the trading of slots. – Mr President, I address my remarks this morning in the main to Mrs De Palacio. Mr Prodi in his address to this Parliament some time ago gave a strong commitment to combating fraud and the misuse of public money. That is why during Mrs De Palacio’s hearing I and my colleagues insisted on questioning her very closely on the flax subsidy scandal in which her department was involved in Spain. The response of Mrs De Palacio was not to our satisfaction and indeed her contention that the Spanish Parliament had cleared her of any responsibility and that the issue is now closed is clearly not true. Whilst I appreciate that the OLAF and Spanish investigation is ongoing and that Mrs De Palacio may be totally exonerated of any involvement, the fact remains that she was a little economical with the truth when answering my questions on 30 August. Finally, Mrs De Palacio’s outburst at the press conference following the hearing does not bode well for someone whose remit includes relationships with the European Parliament and, whilst I accept that Mrs De Palacio did apologise later for her remarks, it nevertheless raises another doubt about her ability to carry out this specific role in the new Commission. Sadly, Mr President, even though Mrs De Palacio answered our questions on transport to our satisfaction, and as a group we will no doubt endorse the Commission tomorrow, we must enter a reservation on the candidature of Mrs De Palacio pending the findings of the OLAF and the Spanish authorities’ investigations and because of the way she responded to questioning on this issue at her hearing. – Mr President, firstly I should like to congratulate our three rapporteurs – Mr Hatzidakis, Mr van Dam and Mr Grosch – for the work they have done. The level of knowledge of the members of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism never ceases to amaze me, in regard to technical details such as the number of axles on buses, turning circles of buses, and so on and so forth. I am grateful to them for their work. As far as the PSE Group is concerned, in relation to Mr Hatzidakis' report, we are happy with the common position and the same goes for Mr van Dam's report. We will be voting accordingly. Regarding Mr Grosch's report, I welcome the directive because it recognises that we now have an opportunity to improve road safety. Working conditions for drivers have direct economic but also safety implications. By proposing a training regime for professional drivers we will be enhancing the status of those drivers. It is also important to recognise that in light of enlargement these provisions will have to be incorporated into legislation by the candidate countries. I know many Member States include driver education in their basic education system, but for those that do not, this directive will make it possible for all drivers to receive proper training. The issue of subsidiarity was raised in committee and indeed is raised again in plenary through a number of amendments. My group believes that the compromise position that we reached in committee, with the help of our rapporteur, Mr Grosch, enables the directive to offer mere guidelines and therefore negates the need for subsidiarity. My group will therefore be voting against most amendments that advocate this principle and in support of the rapporteur's position. We will also vote in favour of Amendment No 43, which proposes an assessment of the effectiveness of this directive and vote against other amendments that try to be too prescriptive. We are, in short, agreeing with the rapporteur. I thank all the rapporteurs for their work and congratulate them all on producing three well-balanced reports. – Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for his statement and the facts that he confirmed. It may be advantageous at this moment just to say what has actually been proposed by the UK government and also what they are proposing, bearing in mind the crisis in Britain and indeed throughout the whole of the European Union with regard to the road haulage industry. It must be said at the outset that this is not just a specific British problem. The proposal was put forward by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in a pre-budget statement made six months before the full budget statement made in the spring of 2001. It contained a number of proposals, not just specifically this one on the vignette, which will effect the haulage industry. I can assure my Irish colleagues that the vignette proposal is being made in full cognisance of the euro-vignette directive and is likely to be along similar lines to those already in place, as Commissioner Vitorino explained, in many of the present Member States of the European Union. It is worth pointing out that at the moment lorries from the United Kingdom are faced with vignette or toll charges on roads in other EU Member States but so far such levies have not been charged within the United Kingdom. I am sure that the United Kingdom government will be responding to the Commission's request in discussions with the Commission as well as the haulage industry to explore ways in which the vignette scheme can operate within the present euro-vignette directive. The details of our scheme have yet to be put in place. I understand Mr McCartin's concerns, but it seems to me that a lot of what is being said about the UK system is based not on fact but on rumour and things that are being said in the industry rather than things that have been proposed by the UK government. I know that the UK government want to consult with hauliers and I also know that the UK government recognises the specific position of Ireland and I am sure that it will be talking to its counterparts in Dublin as well as in Belfast. What we need to get clear today is that the UK is proposing what it is doing in full recognition that it must consult the European Union and in full recognition that there is EU legislation in place that it must abide by. It also recognises that if it charges the euro-vignette system then it will also have to charge similar amounts to its own UK hauliers. It recognises that whatever scheme it brings in must be non-discriminatory. In conclusion, we are being premature in the European Parliament in holding this debate, but I welcome the fact and the statement from Commissioner Vitorino which clearly indicates that the UK government has the right to introduce a euro-vignette system provided it keeps within the rules and regulations already in place. I believe that is what the UK government wishes. – Mr President, today we must assess what this report is about, which is the safe transportation of radioactive materials. It is a response to the Commission's communication on recent changes to the International Atomic Energy Agency's transport regulations. I say that because there were times during the debate in the committee when the central issue of transportation of radioactive material seemed to get lost in the wider debate between the pro- and anti-nuclear lobbies. We should, however, thank Mrs Isler Béguin for starting the work, and certainly our chairman Mr Hatzidakis for finishing it, so we can have that debate here today. The Commission takes the view that the risk associated with transportation of radioactive material is low but that efforts should be made to inform the public and the emergency services of the safety of the transportation process. A multi-annual plan should also be adopted by the Community. We broadly support this view. Sadly, in the former rapporteur's report, she took a position which included all dangerous inherent radioactivity, went against reprocessing of radioactive material and recommended that the Euratom Treaty be withdrawn and the nuclear sector be covered by a chapter about energy in the Treaty. We in the PSE felt, as I said earlier, that this was a report on the transportation of radioactive material and had nothing to do with the merits or demerits of the nuclear industry. That is why we made compromises and I feel at the moment that we have a balanced report we can all support. On behalf of the PSE, therefore, I can say that we will support the two amendments that we tabled down in the plenary but reject the majority of amendments which either defend the nuclear industry as if no problem exists, or damn it as some form of devil-incarnate industry. My group believes that the report as it stands, while not perfect, is at least balanced, realistic, objective and addresses the issues that it is supposed to address, namely the transportation of radioactive material. – Mr President, I thank Mr Atkins for his report and also for his willingness to cooperate and work with not only my group but other groups in coming up with this document. There is no doubt that air traffic control delays are a problem. A visit to any of the major airports at this time of year will make that obvious. I hear that the average delay is said to be 20 minutes. All I can say from my experience is that somebody must be picking on Manchester very badly because I have not yet flown with Sabena from Brussels to Manchester when we have ever got anywhere near a 20-minute delay. I can safely say that the timetable now is just a mere guide, not a definitive object, when planning travel. It is a clear problem that we need to address. The report must consider all the issues involving air traffic and adopt a twofold approach as proposed by the Commission. But not all delays are due to air traffic controls. It is the greatest cop-out in the world for airlines to say to passengers that the delay is caused by air traffic. There is never anybody from the air traffic controllers in the airport to turn around and say that is not true. Frankly, a lot of the delays are caused by the inefficiencies of some of the airlines themselves. Passengers go missing. It never ceases to amaze me the number of passengers that go missing in airports! What do these people get up to, I ask myself? Invariably they cause delays as much as air traffic. The issue of Eurocontrol is important. We support the compromise that is made in point 8 with regard to Eurocontrol. We also support the need for the military to give up some of their air space. Finally, there are some TDI amendments with this. I am particularly interested in Amendment No 24. I can only assume that the TDI group must... – Mr President, before you take the final vote, Amendment No 3 to paragraph 28 is on the voting list as by the TDI Group. I should like to make it absolutely clear that is not the case because our group would certainly not want to be seen to be supporting an amendment by the TDI Group. Mr President, I would like to thank all our rapporteurs for their work on a complicated yet important area within the transport brief, namely our railways and the future of our railways. I would like to start with the issue of freight and what has been said about it. In the area of rail freight, the rail industry is presently sitting in the 'last chance saloon'. Unless we all pull together to develop rail freight on a European-wide scale – including opening up national networks, more progress on inter-operability and changes in the way the industry thinks and works – there will be no rail freight to defend or be worth mentioning by the year 2020. It will have disappeared on to the roads mainly, with all the consequences that will entail. So I start this morning with a friendly warning to the railway industry that unless it gets its act together, and unless we all work together in the area of rail freight, it will disappear in 20 years or so. Of course, any action along those lines must be based on cooperation with the trade unions and the social partners. A theme that my group has consistently pushed for, for many years now. In that regard, I welcome some of the agreements recently undertaken between the ETF and the CER, particularly the issue of driving licences, as well as the commitment from the Commission to come forward with a proposal at the end of the year on that subject. With regard to passengers, I would urge caution. I note that my colleague Mr Hatzidakis says 'be bold'. But the problem with that is that one country that decided to be bold with its railways some years back was the United Kingdom. The result of that 'boldness' was a botched privatisation that caused absolute chaos in the railway industry and has caused the present government to spend a lot more money on the railways than was planned. Yet we still do not have a better service. That does not mean that we all retreat into our shells and say that the nationalised railway is the be-all and the end-all. That clearly is not the case. But we need to ensure that nobody makes the same mistakes as the United Kingdom. Liberalisation of the passenger side must proceed step by step. In that regard, our rapporteurs have produced a balanced compromise that everyone can live with. We must all remember that providing a railway is not just about profit – it is also about safety – but it is also about service and service levels to the people that are supposed to be transported from one place to another. In the end, people should come before profit but, sadly, that is not always the case. Let me now focus briefly on Mr Sterckz's report which I shadowed for my group. I would like to thank him for his work and, in particular, for his efforts to get a compromise solution that is acceptable to us all. He should also be congratulated because the battle with the Council – indeed all our rapporteurs' battles with the Council – has made that work especially difficult. I just want to say that everybody supports safety. No politician is going to stand up here and say that he does not think safety is important, that is political suicide. It is a matter of getting the balance right between what is practical and what we can do, as well as making sure that the safety levels we have are as high as possible. Sadly, we have had instances on our railways recently where some standards have not been what they should be. I again thank the rapporteurs and finish by saying to the railway industry that this is a crucial time for all railways in Europe. For freight, this is the last opportunity. I hope we do not throw it away. – Mr President, firstly I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their work in this very important area. This is a difficult and complex subject not made any easier by the position that the whole railway industry finds itself in. If you look at rail freight in Europe, for example, the drop in traffic is quite alarming. If nothing is done, then within the next 15 years rail freight will not exist. There has to be change in how railways work, both in the passenger and freight sectors. The industry itself has to recognise that its service levels have been unacceptable and Member States must also recognise that investment levels have been in decline for many years. This is nowhere more apparent than in the field of interoperability: 15 different systems, different signalling systems, different power currents and an obsession at national level with working their own system to the detriment of international cooperation and to the detriment of interoperability. It is the inability of a train to cross borders without changing locomotives, changing drivers or even changing bogeys that is the problem for our railways. A 40-tonne heavy goods lorry is fully interoperable. A freight train is not. That is the difficulty that faces the industry. It is not an easy problem to overcome. We need to give the railways time to improve their interoperability, but we must also remind them that time is running out and frankly with regard to freight the industry is now drinking in the last chance saloon. I, on behalf of my group, have followed the report by Mr Sterckx with regard to safety more closely than the others. It is our belief that in any work in the area of safety those who work in the sector must be involved. In this regard a difference exists between us and the PPE-DE Group. Our main goals are to ensure higher levels of safety whilst fully integrating our European rail system. We must get away from the 15 different systems I mentioned earlier; however, we must ensure that Member States have an input, and in those areas where higher standards exist we must insist that they are maintained. Dilution of safety standards is not an option. That is why, as a group, we have submitted a number of amendments to Mr Sterckx's report. All of us here are supporters of railways. Indeed some of us are somewhat fanatical and are often called anoraks by our colleagues. I hope the Commission proposals and Parliament's response are seen by those in the railway industry as an honest attempt to ensure that Europe's railway industry has a future. In order to reach that goal we need politicians, we need governments, we need the Commission, but most of all we also need all sides in the railway industry working together. – Mr President, I have been given a very generous eight minutes on my report here in front of this packed Chamber this evening – I suspect that is because many people find this report quite technical and detailed. Whilst drawing up the second liberalisation package in 1989, the Council and the Commission agreed that Community air transport policy had to address the harmonisation of the regulatory framework applicable to civil aviation. Subsequently, Council Regulation 3922/91 was established in which the technical requirements, known as Joint Aviation Requirements, formulated by the JAA, were given the force of law within the Community. It is against this background that the Joint Aviation Requirements, known as JAR-OPS, agreed by the JAA in 1995, are now being transposed into European Union law. This in itself has proved to be a difficult exercise. But the Community has committed itself to adopting harmonised safety requirements for the operation of aircraft. In this regard, the JAR-OPS 1 Regulation constitutes a good basis from which we can work, with minimum changes, in order to amend the appropriate regulations. However, there are areas in which Parliament needs to act. Firstly, in regard to cabin crew. Operators should have the responsibility for training, but this should be done on a harmonised basis, with a distinct, uniform, European-wide certification system which would be accepted by all Member States. There is no doubt in my mind that in most cases the operators are best qualified to organise training. But this should not preclude other qualified organisations from having the possibility to do training, providing, of course, that all training is approved by the National Civil Aviation Authorities. In addition, the cabin crew directive should now be incorporated into this regulation. Secondly, the difficult issue of flight time limitation was not addressed by the Commission. The relevant part, known as Subpart Q, is missing. This is nonsensical, because you cannot have a directive which purports to have safety as a major part of it leaving out the issue of duty time for cockpit crews. In this area, the social partners have been trying to reach an agreement for ten years. Ten years and no agreement must be a failure by any measurement you wish to adopt. However, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism recognise that the best people to deal with this problem are indeed the trade unions and the airline operators and, in a spirit of compromise, have agreed to give all sides until 1 May 2001 to reach an agreement that will form the text of a new Subpart Q. However, should they fail in their endeavours then, at the second reading stage, Parliament, through the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, will act and legislate in this area. I am hopeful that the relevant social partners will reach an agreement. I am grateful to them for their current efforts. Amendments have been proposed that also look at the problem of cabin baggage. Sadly, airlines at present do not strictly enforce cabin baggage regulations, which has led to passengers bringing more and more bags into airline cabins. Amendment No 16 addresses this problem, which was highlighted to me by the cabin crew themselves and even some airlines. I find it totally amazing that groups in Parliament will vote against this amendment. This is a safety issue, and as their rapporteur I would ask them to seriously reconsider their opinion. This amendment is totally acceptable to all airlines and cabin crew and it in no way stops passengers having cabin baggage. What it does is stop the excessive cabin baggage which has led to passengers being injured from luggage falling out of overhead bins; to passengers having restricted access in case of emergency evacuation procedures and, which I know from my own experience, to aircraft toilets being used to carry bags. Whilst I appreciate that MEPs are amongst the worst culprits for excessive cabin baggage, I would hope their sense of responsibility would enable them to recognise that a problem exists, that this problem compromises safety and that Amendment No 16 should be supported. I believe that the report before us is worth supporting. However, in conclusion, I feel I must reiterate the warning I made earlier that we need an agreement on flight time limitation before 1 May from our social partners. If they can deliver that agreement for us, then I believe we will have a document that we can rightly be proud of. I have to say that if they fail in their endeavours, I am sure Parliament will feel obliged to act on their behalf. – Madam President, first of all I should like to thank Mr Koch for his report which has, at its heart, the issue of transport safety. The report looks at the issue of harmonising the examination requirements for safety advisors working in the areas of transportation of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. I congratulate him on his excellent report. Transport safety has sadly been in the news recently: the Paddington rail crash in London, the terrible rail crash in Norway, the two aviation crashes involving EU citizens and the natural disaster involving the off Brittany – all within the last four months – remind us that transport safety can never be taken for granted and that those charged with protecting the public must be highly motivated and highly qualified. The rapporteur has pointed out to the House that in its common position the Council has accepted six of Parliament's ten amendments put forward at first reading and that the substance of Parliament's other amendments has been retained. My Group will therefore support the common position and looks forward to the enactment of the legislation which will provide us with yet another tool in our fight to make transport in the European Union as safe as possible. When it comes to safety my Group will always support any initiatives to improve transport safety. We still have a lot of work to do in this area as recent events have proved. – Mr President, God help us if the conservatives ever run Europe again. I wish to concentrate on two issues which I know Parliament considers to be of the utmost importance, namely the Galileo project and the future of postal services. Having the opportunity to speak in this debate gives me the chance to welcome not only the Council's conclusions on the creation of a single European sky, but its determination to submit proposals on slot allocation at Community airports to Parliament by June. With regard to Galileo it is worth remembering that this programme was actually instigated by the Council in March 1998. This commitment was emphasised by the Cologne Council and Feira when it was stated that strategic decisions had to be taken by December 2000. But then, to be blunt, the Council, no doubt under pressure from finance ministers, got cold feet. I accept that the cost of Galileo is around EUR 3 billion, which means the involvement of the private sector is essential, but the benefits to Europe in both economic and social terms will be immense. We have a commitment from the main European companies in this sector. What we need now is a political commitment from the Member States not only to push ahead with Galileo, but to push ahead in a positive and determined way, working alongside the private sector. Earlier in the day Mr Poettering criticised the Council for not giving a timetable for the liberalisation of postal services. I actually agree with the Council on this and would remind not only Mr Poettering, but also Commissioner Bolkestein, of the position Parliament took at its first reading on postal services a couple of months ago. By an overwhelming majority it voted for a controlled, gradual liberalisation down to 150 000 with no end-date for liberalisation. So when I read in the Stockholm conclusions that the Council wishes to work with Parliament, I welcome this. But I would remind the Council that Parliament's position is clear, unambiguous and has been arrived at with a clear political consensus across political divides. On post Parliament does not have a problem. The Council does. This solution is clear: accept Parliament's position, abandon the extreme policies put forward by Commissioner Bolkestein and I am sure we can have an agreement on the future of postal services within days. – Mr President, first of all I should like to thank our rapporteur, Mrs Torres Marques, not only for her work on this report, but also for her dedication to the tourism cause in this Parliament, which goes back some years now. I believe we are faced with a contradiction – a contradiction that emerges clearly as Mr Harbour speaks on behalf of Mr Bradbourn, speaking on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy in this field of tourism. I believe we need EU competence in the field of tourism, not only to enable tourism to develop in terms of staff and standards and give us a coherent and coordinated tourism policy, but also – and I thought the Conservative Group would have really taken this to their bosom – because the present scenario is holding back profit generation and the opportunities to make money in that sector. Tourism contributes 5% of the EU's GDP. It employs thousands of people in the Member States and yet we have no EU competence. We are faced at this moment with numerous – I do not know how many exactly – tourism policies reflecting national, regional and even local priorities that differ from each other. It appears that we have a tourism ship that is sailing the seas with nobody on the bridge to direct it or to control it. That is not the fault of the Commission or this Parliament. The fault lies squarely with the Member State governments. Even within national boundaries, tourism suffers from this effect of other interests – parochial interests. We really need to take the opportunity presented by Mrs Torres Marques to get to grips with this problem and to produce for the European Union a coherent tourism policy that will work and be of benefit to the people of Europe. – Mr President, on a point of order I want to say how delighted I am to see you in the chair after your recent illness looking so fit and well! –Mr President, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Nicholson, on his report. Members have highlighted the reasons why this regulation is required in the aftermath of the events of 11 September 2001 in the United States, so I will not go any further on that point. I should just like to say that we believe it is a necessary regulation because it creates legal certainty and because it establishes minimum insurance requirements for liability in respect of passengers, luggage, cargo, mail and third parties. On the whole, we believe that the Commission did a reasonable job. However, we also believe our committee has improved the text by bringing it closer to reality and by clarifying certain aspects of it. I support the call from the rapporteur with regard to an economic impact assessment of this legislation before the second reading. The main points I would like to raise on behalf of the PSE Group are as follows: The Commission's categories regarding the minimum insurance requirements cover too wide a spectrum of aircraft and would have constituted a burden which is too high or even unbearable for smaller aircraft in general aviation. I believe we have found a good compromise in the committee by lowering and changing the categories and by using more or less the categories of resolution ECAC/25-1. My group has tabled two amendments again for plenary. The first is to ensure that the person of the party liable in respect of an aircraft is identical to the person required to take out the insurance. This amendment is necessary in order to avoid duplication of insurance, gaps in the insurance cover, or insurance without liability. The second amendment is about the consequences if the conditions of this regulation are not met, in particular as it applies to an air carrier or aircraft operators from third countries, who must be refused access to routes to or within the Community or the right to overfly the territory if they fail to comply. We must remember that Community air carriers and keepers of aircraft registered in the Community shall forfeit their operating license where the prescribed insurance cover is not maintained. Therefore we must make this distinction between third country and Community carriers or operators. We believe that refusal or access to routes is the appropriate sanction for non-EU air carriers and aircraft operators, and that the only sanction we can impose is the denial of access to routes. These two amendments are reasonable and I hope colleagues will support them – Madam President, I am grateful to you for giving me the floor. I want to bring to your attention and that of Parliament the tragic and terrible rail crash that took place yesterday just outside Paddington Station in London, in which two trains collided. At the moment the death toll is at 26 but is expected to rise – maybe even to double that – and there are many people seriously injured. I therefore request, President, that you write a letter on behalf of the European Parliament to the British Prime Minister expressing our shock and horror at the magnitude of this terrible disaster, asking him to and pass on our deepest sympathy to the relatives of those people who have died, and also to the relatives of those who remain seriously injured in the hope that they make a full recovery. I would be grateful, in light of this terrible rail disaster, if you would do that. – Mr President, it is a waste of time: there are none so deaf as those who will not listen. – Mr President, firstly I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Ferber, for all his work and, indeed, thank the Commissioner for his work. Some of you might find that a little surprising, as it is well known that Commissioner Bolkestein and I have not seen eye to eye on this matter all of the time. However, what we have from the Council is the result of some good work all round. I want to highlight what we as a Parliament asked for in the first reading and what we actually got. We asked for controlled and gradual liberalisation. Did the Council agree with that? Yes, they did. We asked for codecision for the European Parliament for any future steps to full liberalisation. Did we get that? Yes, we did. We asked for special services to be taken out of the directive. Did they agree with that? Yes, they did. We also asked for the universal service to be guaranteed. Did they give us that? Yes, they did. The one thing they did not give us was the starting point of 150 grammes for that controlled and gradual liberalisation. As the rapporteur said, they came up with a compromise of 100 and then 50 grammes. That is not bad going for a European Parliament to put five demands to the Council, get four of them in full and half of the other. Therefore, I would like to make those people who wish to stick to the 150 gramme level aware of what their actions will lead to should they pursue that particular policy. If we go for 150 grammes it will lead to a failure of the agreement. The Council common position will unravel, and collapse. All our gains, including codecision on future moves will be lost and the Commission will then move in under Article 80 – as I am sure they are keen to do – and give us full liberalisation sooner rather than later. If ever there was a classic case of cutting off your nose to spite your face, it is that of those people advocating 150 grammes. Finally, through this Chamber I wish to make a plea to Postcomm, the British postal regulator. You now have an opportunity, through this directive, to end your self-declared war on the British Post Office and the British people. We have all been impressed by your macho image, clearly learned from watching too many World Wrestling Federation bouts. But Europe has showed you how to maintain a viable post office offering a universal service of excellent quality at an affordable price. So for God's sake, Postcomm, get off the battlements and see sense! – Mr President, yet again this Parliament finds itself debating another maritime disaster. We are now faced with a disaster of such magnitude that it is no longer just a transport issue, it is also an environmental, social and fishing issue, which is why my group believes a committee of inquiry is needed to ascertain what went wrong with the . On behalf of my group, I express to the people of Galicia our sadness at their tragedy and our solidarity and support in their battle against this modern-day black death that is threatening their livelihoods and damaging their shores. This Parliament would be fully justified in saying to our own Council of Ministers and to the IMO: 'We told you so!' The parliamentary records are full of calls from this body for action on maritime safety. From the  to the , from the  to the We have highlighted flags of convenience, inadequate port state control, single-hull tankers and deficient crews and yet, despite our best efforts and the support of the Commission, our own Council of Ministers has failed to heed the warnings and take decisive action and has been instrumental in ensuring that the IMO is one of the most ineffective bodies ever. I say to the people of Galicia that it should be our own Council of Ministers and the IMO, not them, with oil on their hands at this moment. They have let the people of Galicia and all of us down on this issue of maritime safety. The Council of Ministers does not want a committee of inquiry, as there are probably too many skeletons in its cupboard for that. However, it is shocking that the PPE-DE Group opposes such a move. It is a clear snub to the people of Galicia. They seem to be more concerned about protecting political friends than protecting the people of Europe. This is the worst ecological disaster for years and the PPE-DE Group calls for a hearing – pathetic! The time for talking is over. What we need is  – to ban the flags of convenience in our waters; to improve our port state control; to ensure that the ships of shame are detained; to ban all single-hull tankers; to ensure that those responsible for these disasters pay the full cost of the damage that they caused; and last, but not least, to ensure that the  is the last tanker to spread its black death over our coastline. Mr Haarder, take the message back to the Council:  blocking, delay, subsidiarity or hiding behind the IMO –  is what we demand! Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work that he has done on this report. The basis of the discussion that we have had so far is the importance of these bilateral agreements within the aviation sector. Quite rightly the issue of the United States is being singled out as probably the more important one. But I would not like us to become obsessed with an agreement with the United States to the detriment of an agreement with the other third countries. Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Japan are all waiting for agreements. So whilst it is important that we stress the importance of the United States agreement, we should remember that this is a report about relations with other countries, not just the United States. My concern is that the United States will see this as a golden opportunity to cherry-pick, as they have always done, the best routes into Europe. It is what the Americans call 'an early harvest', where they get all the goodies and we in the European Union are left with the crumbs off the master's table. That is why it is important that we have a report that prevents this happening. We have some concerns with a number of the amendments that have been passed, in particular Amendment No 16, which deletes Article 4. We also have problems with Amendment Nos 6, 7 and 14. We agree with Mr Schmitt with regard to Amendment No 17, but this is what happens when you allow the Green Group to hijack transport reports as they have a habit of trying to do. The 'polluter pays' principle is an important one, but it is not the right approach to a technical decision that comes out of a European Court judgement. Finally, I would like to say on a personal note, that whilst my group will be supporting Amendment No 4, both the British delegation and I have difficulty in supporting it. With those provisions that I have outlined, we will support Mr Schmitt's report, but we have reservations on those six amendments and in particular Amendment No 16. – Firstly, I would like to thank the environment colleagues in my group who approached this particular problem jointly with their transport team. This disaster is both a transport and environmental one and is not confined to one area. Here we are here again in this Parliament discussing yet another maritime disaster. I could reel off the list of disasters that have afflicted this industry in my 10 years in this Parliament but I only have three minutes. Surely it is now about time that not only the Member States but that toothless tiger that is known as the International Maritime Organisation, and last but not least, the oil companies and tanker owners take on their responsibilities by acting to stop these ecological and human tragedies repeating themselves year after year. How many more Erikas do we have to endure before the powers that be deliver to us a proper port state control that is effective throughout the whole of the European Union, not just certain areas of it? How much more pollution do we have to endure before the industry delivers us tankers with segregated tanks and double holds? How many more seabirds are to die before shipping companies end the practice of cleaning their tanks at sea which, as our resolution points out, causes far more pollution than any Erika-type disaster? While I recognise that some progress has been made in areas like port state control and minimal crewing standards, we are still faced with what our late colleague Ken Stewart used to call 'ships of shame sailing in and out of our European Union waters: rust buckets badly crewed'. We need the Member States to act quickly and decisively. We need our governments to put up the financial resources needed to give us effective control and we need them also to stop dragging their feet when it comes to maritime safety. The Erika cost no human lives but it may have ruined many human livelihoods. Just as the Sea Empress, just as the Braer did. It is absolutely certain that all three left us with an ecological disaster. My group's sympathy goes out to the people of Brittany who have seen their area despoiled by this disaster, just as my group's sympathy went out to the people of West Wales and to the Shetland Islands on previous occasions. Is it not about time that we stopped expressing sympathy and started issuing enforcement notices to get rid of these ships of shame in favour of safe seas or we will be back again, later on this year, discussing a new motion for a resolution when yet another flag-of-convenience tanker sadly goes down spewing its crude oil all over the sea. The time for resolutions has passed. What is now needed is action. Sadly, I fear, the Council will yet again fail to act and we will be back in the future discussing yet another maritime and ecological disaster. () – Madam President, I also wish to thank the rapporteur Mr Ferber and the members of the committee for their hard work on this particular dossier. It has not been an easy dossier to follow and it has not been rushed or done wrongly. It is excellent. The previous directive of 1997 called for: "a gradual and controlled liberalisation". What the Commission came up with during this year was neither gradual nor controlled. What it came up with was, in the words of Neil Armstrong, the famous American astronaut: "one giant leap for mankind" in that they moved from 350 grammes to 50 grammes in one fell swoop. Therefore, whilst that may be welcomed in certain parts of this House, it would have had a devastating effect on postal services throughout the European Union. This morning we need to examine what those proposals would have meant. We also need to make the point made by Mr Jarzembowski: so many studies have been conducted by this Commission, yet we have never seen them. A commissioner came before the committee and said that they would be put on the Internet – we never saw them! Yet we are expected to go along the lines that the Commission wanted without ever seeing those so-called studies. The reason why we never saw those studies was because the social effects mentioned in them – the effects on postal services – were simply not to the liking of the Commission. A reduction of the universal service – the very core of the postal service sector – to 50 grammes would seriously put at risk the ability of the national postal operators to deliver a universal service at an affordable tariff to people, irrespective of where they live. That is a crucial point. I am not saying that people who live in cities should get a better service than people in rural areas. I am not going to give the old Florus Wijsenbeek argument: well, why should we be delivering letters up there – people should get on the Internet. That is why he is no longer with us. In other words, what the Commission is proposing, supported by some in this House, will in my own country lead to a reduction in service levels, in particular in rural areas. You can forget the daily guaranteed delivery and collection service. You can forget a single tariff: zonal pricing will be introduced. In other words, people in rural areas will pay more. There will be job losses. I am sorry, Mr Ferber, I am concerned about job losses and the effect they will have. It will also lead to the closure of rural sub-post offices, because they rely on postal services for their very survival. I also want to stress the human element. Some people have said that we have liberalised telecoms and it was not a great problem. But telecoms are about machines, this is about people meeting the service face to face, not meeting the service the other side of a telephone or computer screen. We often pontificate here about being the representatives of the citizens of Europe. Well, if my mail bag is anything to go by, the citizens of Europe do not want to see their postal services decimated. I remind my Conservative MEP colleagues of the mess they got into in the UK when they tried to privatise the British post office. I fought against that and, having won that battle, I am not going to give that up to see the battle reopened via the back door of Europe. Today we have a report before us that is an excellent response to the Commission's proposals. It is a response that is not only measured, but also guaranteed to improve our services for consumers, irrespective of where they live. Again, I stress that what we are talking about today is people and public service and not ideologies. It is about getting that public service delivered to them, irrespective of what is on the balance sheet. I would recommend our compromises because I believe we have ensured that postal services will be developed in the European Union and that those postal services will deliver to the people of Europe. If you go down the road of the Commission or some in this House, then you will decimate those postal services and we will be slated by the people for that action, and rightly so. – Madam President, I came to the Chamber this morning with a prepared speech about the situation in the airline industry. I have radically altered that, in view of what I have heard from the President-in-Office and the Commissioner this morning. Frankly, what we have heard is totally unacceptable. We are faced with a classic scenario of the Council of Ministers fiddling like some modern-day Nero while the aviation industry of the European Union burns. Madam President-in-Office, we are in a deep crisis. You, more than anybody else, should know that from your own Member State. Airlines have gone bankrupt. Others are on the brink of bankruptcy – and what response do we get? We get a suggestion that the Commission can go and sit down with the Americans and talk to them about the aid they are giving to try and level the playing field. By the time that happens there will not be a European civil aviation industry left to put on that level playing field! We need action now. We do not want fiddling at the edges, we want direct action so that our civil aviation industry can survive and have a future of its own. The response from the United States after the events of 11 September was direct and straight to the point. They made USD 5 billion available to their airlines straight away and offered another USD 10 billion in indirect aid to help them over other crises should they arise. And what did we do? We fiddled at the edges and said, "Well, we might do this" and, as Mrs Foster said, "Well, we said you could pay compensation for the lost days". That is not enough. We need direct action now. What appalled me today was the tone of the contribution from the Commission and the President-in-Office. It is as if they are accepting that airlines will have to go bust and that thousands of jobs will have to go, without doing anything to stop it. Before today I suspected that Member States wanted to use this crisis to consolidate the industry, to get rid of some of the airlines. Well, today the President-in-Office all but admitted that this is the case. If that is so, then I condemn it. Members of the trade unions are with us today in the gallery. I say to them: I give you the support of my group in the quest to keep a European civil aviation industry alive. Sadly, from what I have heard today, a similar commitment from the Council of Ministers seems to be a good way off. I just wonder, Madam President-in-Office, whether people in history will remember the Belgian presidency of the year 2001 as the presidency that oversaw the demise of Europe's civil aviation industry. () Mr President, I will concentrate on the issue of civil aviation safety. I start by offering, on behalf of my Group, our condolences to the relatives and friends of all victims of aviation accidents, not just the recent one in Sharm el-Sheikh. I firmly believe, however, that aviation safety has to be put into perspective. The industry is the most regulated and has the best safety record of any mode of public transport. When you compare the record of aviation with the carnage that occurs on our roads, and when you consider that the number of air accidents is going down, whilst the number of road accidents is going up, then any discussion on aviation safety must take these facts into account. However, civil aviation must carry on improving its safety record. I wish to highlight four areas where improvements could be made. First there is a danger that a system similar to maritime transport's flags of convenience could creep into civil aviation. I hope EASA, the new safety agency, will urgently examine this. Member States need to increase their ramp inspections to weed out those airlines which are based in one country but register in another and have lower standards than we would expect within the European Union. Second, there is an urgent need for a Europe-wide harmonised system of operations by way of an EU-ops. This particular issue is all the more urgent with the impending enlargement of the European Union and would include matters such as flight and duty time for cockpit and cabin crew. Third, the whole issue of cabin safety needs to be addressed, particularly the number of emergency exits, the amount of cabin baggage – try getting on the Air France flight today from Paris, for example! – and the use of sky marshals. Fourth, there is a need to reform the existing package travel directive which is now not only outdated, but ineffectual and allows some airlines to offer packages without being covered by the directive. This Parliament, with the help of the Commission, has worked long and hard to improve aviation safety and we have had some success. There are still areas where more progress needs to be made. However, I repeat that aviation is the safest form of public transport and accidents, however tragic, are thankfully rare. The House would do well to await the results of any official investigations before jumping to conclusions that can often be misguided and wrong. – Mr President, I welcome the proposals to provide legal rights for passengers as well as the increase in denied boarding compensation and the right to reimbursement for delayed flights. The idea of new contract standards between carriers and consumers is not only welcome but long overdue. To be delayed is a nuisance. To be denied information as to the cause of the delay, with little by way of an apology or compensation, is unacceptable. Hopefully, with the support of the airlines and the work done by Mr Collins in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, things will now change for the better. We can never take aviation safety for granted. Today my colleague Mrs Cerdeira told me of the tragic crash last week of an old CN-235, converted from military use, on a Melilla to Malaga flight, with loss of life. I extend the sympathies of Mrs Cerdeira and myself to the relatives of the victims. Regarding the contributions of Mr Titford, I assumed he was speaking in a personal capacity. Only people with a bizarre outlook on life and a peculiar political perspective can downgrade the importance of aviation safety in the pursuit of their own nationalistic objectives. Safety should never be used as a political football. I condemn Mr Titford for so doing. – Mr President, the previous Vice-President in the chair quite rightly asked for Members who are coming in to vote to enter the Chamber quietly when a debate is going on. That is right. However, every voting time this week has slipped behind not just by a few minutes, but by over 25 minutes. I ask the powers-that-be  or the great and the good  to do something so that in future voting time starts on time, as opposed to the rigmarole that seems to happen every part-session with the time slipping by. . Although this area of indirect tax is reviewed every two years, the Labour delegation for the UK sees no reason to change the current Annex H. This, we believe, should be the responsibility of the national governments as long as they are non-distortive in terms of trade and industry. – Mr President, I also wish to add my congratulations to Mrs Randzio-Plath for the work on this report, which has been difficult at times. This directive sets out to identify and prevent subsidies which distort competition. In order to do this, the directive proposes to require public undertakings and private undertakings that perform public tasks to carry out separate accounting procedures. I obviously agree with the rapporteur that competition rules must be applied rigorously in order to prevent cross-subsidies that go against the purpose of the aid. However, in the sphere of public broadcasting it is essential to remember that, in accordance with the Amsterdam Protocol, in the system of public broadcasting in Member States, it is up to each Member State to specify the financial and organisational structure of public service broadcasting. This has, as I said, been a difficult report; it has been fraught and often very tense in committee and, more specifically, at the committee votes. However, I believe the final outcome will work and is a practical and correct approach. – Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speedy work on this report on VAT and e-commerce. I think the comments I have heard around the floor today would almost suggest that we do not need this kind of report, but of course we do. It is tempting for us always to compare ourselves with the USA and to say that because they cannot find a satisfactory solution, we should not either. But the fact is that VAT on goods and services applies across the European Union. This is a tax which already exists. It is not a new tax and it should be applied. It should be applied to the Internet at well. Otherwise, what would happen? Well of course the issue of unfair competition has already been mentioned. Why should the retail industry be so badly affected and be made to suffer in order for another industry to grow? If indeed it can be affected that way by what the proposal suggests, and I doubt that. Furthermore, this proposal is in line, as I see it, with the principles agreed at Ecofin, which in turn are in line with the agreed principles of the OECD Conference in Ottawa. The source where the tax should apply is a matter of concern, and the discussion around the number of countries which would qualify to have companies registered in them is something which I believe will be burdensome and of course provoke the USA to a complaint in the WTO. But I do not believe that e-commerce is going to be crushed by VAT being suddenly applied like some evil giant. I think that the real problem is that EU retail industries will continue to suffer the disadvantages that they are currently suffering. It is amusing to hear some of the comments being made around this Chamber today but it is quite clearly also amusing to remember that the kind of cashless society that perhaps the likes of Trotters Independent Trading Company in the UK were involved in is the kind of society that is being advocated by some over on the other side of the House. Are we going to end up with that kind of cashless society, with cowboy e-commerce outfits being able to do what they want? I do not think so. That is not how we are meant to organise society, and that is why I think this proposal is an excellent one. – Mr President, I should like to say, on my own behalf and on behalf of Mr Titley, that response is rather weak. As we are aware, the Council meeting in Cologne fully endorsed the need to include minimum core labour standards in the negotiations for the WTO millennium round. It is vital for our prospects of bringing the world ever closer in terms of these minimum core standards - which include an end to slavery and child labour - that we start this round properly. I hope, therefore, that the Council will take on board many of the issues which have been raised in this Parliament, both in committee and in plenary regarding such measures. I hope that you will take a stronger stance and come back with a stronger answer when you have considered the full implementation of your key negotiating standards. It is essential that you consider this particular element. Mr President, it is because the Lisbon Summit first of all set its sights on making Europe the most dynamic and knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010 that we actually have the risk capital action plan we have today. It was optimistic of governments to set this target, but not unrealistic, given that it is within their grasp to achieve it. A stimulating framework is required for us to promote high-growth industries such as information and biotechnologies and from that the jobs that must come. SMEs are a part of that process and that is what this is about: attracting finance to try to generate those businesses. Why do we need the risk capital action plan? If we make a comparison of Europe and the US in the areas of business generation and equity financing, particularly amongst small businesses, then venture capital activity demonstrates a huge gap in Europe's readiness to compete. A framework has had to be established in order for us to plot Europe's future. To begin with, and the Commission has done this fairly well – after prompting by Parliament – key barriers had to be removed and benchmarks set for their removal. The framework for these benchmarks has now been identified. The first is market fragmentation. How do companies actually raise debt and equity finance across the European Union? There are varied and contrasting pictures across the 15 Member States. There are can best be described on one side as nascent markets, and on the other, rather more sophisticated and developed approaches. Commercial bank loans are how many small- to medium-sized businesses attract finance. This is wholly appropriate in some circumstances; but new and exciting projects or spin-offs are not necessarily so appropriate for bank loans. In areas where risk is likely to be a considerable feature of the exchange, dotcoms for example, commercial banking may be deemed inappropriate and unworkable. Alternative processes are then required – business angels or groups of investors, private investors – bringing together people with ideas on one side and money on the other. At the institutional level, there is the possibility of quotation on the AIMS market in the UK, for example, and perhaps even the idea of using pension funds to allow for higher growth returns rather than with bonds and blue chip equities. Given the pursuit of those higher returns for potential new and growing firms, it is not perhaps surprising to learn that an entire industry has sprung up in this field. Similarly, the careful approach of these investors, with their application of the principle of due diligence, means that spontaneity is not a part of the risk equation, as one might have first imagined. If the EU wants a place in the "premier division" of industrial growth and competition, then funding the industries of tomorrow is of vital importance. This is the stark reality of a market which is held back, not just by the slow evolution of debt-raising, but also by the nature of the institutional and regulatory barriers which fence in any further development across the European Union. Let us have a look at some of those barriers. On the administrative side, it is nice to see that the administrative formalities for forming a company have now acquired the cornerstone of the company statute. This permits the kind of progress we hope to see. I note also that in January 2002 the Directorate-General for Enterprises started to work on benchmarking the administration of business start-ups. The cost of starting up a business varies across the European Union and there is some progress. But look at some of the licensing issues. Look at some of the other issues which hold companies back. It is important to make distinctions, and here we see companies in the areas of hi-tech, drugs, and biotechnology being made to jump through hoops which may have to be reconsidered. We have to look at just how these businesses fare. We do not just need to look at start-ups – businesses grow, they develop or they are bought out. So, for any practical observation, we need to consider just what kind of businesses we are looking at for risk capital. Even now buy-outs – and management buy-outs in particular – are the single largest category of acting in venture capital. Clearing the path of regulatory barriers means introducing new directives. There they bind together the approaches necessary for a single market to emerge. Recently the prospectuses directive was adopted and now – I believe, because of the activities of this Parliament – protects small- to medium-sized businesses from the bureaucratic requirements of continual registration or the dangers that threatened their ability to have access to funding. The issues of the prospectuses directive which Parliament had to address could have been avoided if there had been sufficient cross-referencing with the risk capital action plan in the first place. Let me also just mention pensions and the need for us to have a good quality directive on pensions – one that avoids the prudential plus approach. That approach, would actually reduce the prospects of any kind of funding from the pensions industry – an industry which, in the US is a major source of small business investment. If that prudential plus approach is used, then we may as well not have a pensions directive in Europe. The financial services action plan itself gathers together many of the directives necessary for completion of the risk capital action plan, including most of what I have already mentioned. But now that the Lamfalussy issue is practically resolved, progress will be assured, leaving the regulatory framework requirement for the risk capital action plan well within our sights. The impact of small- to medium-sized businesses has long been an issue raised by many parliamentarians who want to see nothing but the most positive advantages passed on to companies. The Commission's benchmarking of its achievements in these areas has given the European Parliament and the Council the tool to measure Europe's progress. So far that progress has been good, if a little slow. There are other areas which have been mentioned, such as taxation, double taxation of venture capital or capital gains tax, tax arrangements for new firms and comparative tax rates with less risky forms of capital. These have been taken up by a number of Member States but some backbone still needs to be put into these issues. Also, in terms of human resources, we have to have the kind of training or advice that is necessary to help these businesses flourish in the first place: life-long learning and initiatives in vocational qualifications can seen as the start of the spread of best practice, as is the introduction of business mentors in certain countries and developments in school curricula. The high-tech small businesses which, in the end, are the target of the risk capital action plan, are in short supply themselves. The Lisbon Summit of 1997 threw down the gauntlet of the risk capital action plan for Europe to pick up. The expectation is to reach completion by 2005 in terms of a regulatory framework and 2010 for the knowledge-based economy. The risk capital action plan is not in itself a master plan for increased growth or job creation, but it is the essential framework. Progress has been made but it is quite slow. .Whilst the Labour Group supports the "Feira" approach to this matter, it is concerned that amendments in this report voted through undermined the cooperative basis already agreed. – Mr President, I do not feel that I will need the full five minutes, hopefully this will allow you to speed up proceedings tonight. I would firstly like to congratulate Mrs Peijs as rapporteur on this report which, as Mrs Villiers has already outlined, has been extremely complicated. The issue has long been problematic, mainly because of the national differences at governmental level, rather than the issues directly originating from Parliament, but compromises produced in Parliament have been both efficient and expedient in terms of their approach and are very welcome. In an effort to provide for equal treatment across the EU, the principles of unity and universality are the central pillars, of course, of this report, and coherence and consistency are therefore attained. Similarly the rights of creditors in Member States other than their own are safeguarded by the assurances of cooperation between the relevant authorities in the Member States, but let us be clear, in case some of you have not read the document, this is not about harmonisation, it is about mutual recognition of Member States' reorganisation measures and winding up procedures. Parliament's success in introducing substantial changes in the original proposal is important. There are many in Parliament who feel the issues here are of real concern since they all concern the safeguarding of European citizens' interests and rights; indeed this report helps clarify many of the elements, such as the deposit guarantee scheme. But, of course, many of the changes in the common position which finally came back to us have to be welcomed, as they reflect many of Parliament's concerns, although some work has still to be done. It is therefore sensible for Parliament, whilst accepting the improved document's intentions, to reimpose our priorities from the first readings but to organise and also clarify the suggestions emanating from this text. Amendments Nos 1 and 2 bring the text into line with the insolvency regulation and the insurance winding-up proposals which had already been agreed last summer: this confirms Parliament's desire, therefore, to see a degree of coherence in this matter. I also see great strength for creditors in Amendments Nos 3, 5 and 6 while recognising that other national delegations, especially in my group, may have other concerns in this area. But I personally offer my support to the idea of bringing this directive in line with the insolvency regulation and the insurance winding-up proposals. It seems to me that, finally, in the remaining amendments, following in the tradition of tidying up texts for the purpose of clarification, Parliament's rapporteur has maintained the type of quality we have come to expect from experienced Members. Whilst issues such as netting seem to have been slotted in as an extra series of amendments, what we have here is a workable document nonetheless, capable of securing support in the House and provoking serious discussion within the Council. Mr President, if compromise is about being able to live with views which are not entirely your own then the rapporteur has done tremendously well in terms of handling the debate within the House and within the committee, with the Commission and with the Council. He certainly listened to his colleagues and I congratulate him for his sensitivity. As Mr Ettl said, raising capital is vital, and it is more vital perhaps for small businesses where delicate problems can cause immense harm. The protection of businesses from disproportionate costs is surely vital and the attempt which has been made to steer this text towards a more balanced approach effects what I believe is the long-term security for this market. An obvious example, which was mentioned by Mrs Villiers, is on shelf registration, which could have caused tremendous harm and has been avoided. I also fought hard against this. I believe that is a great success. I would also like to mention, rather than going into the details which have been repeated so much, the risk capital action plan of which this is a part as well, and I am always keen to make sure we cross-reference. It is part of the Lisbon goals for growth for all our economies. The single market helps create the potential for such growth. As a past rapporteur on the risk capital action plan, I am pleased to see it has completed its passage through this House and I am pleased that it has been completed successfully so far. As the Commissioner says, there are other reports to come and I hope that they will reflect the same level of debate that we have heard for this particular report. It was not perfect when it reached this House – very rarely things are of course, which allows us to stay in the job we are in – and I believe that Parliament has handled it supremely well and this demonstrates the maturity which it can lend to such technical reports. I look forward therefore to our discussion on the transparency directive, which, as you now know, has been given to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. As the rapporteur I look forward to a very vital debate, as we will expect for the completion of the financial services action plan that this directive will be pointed at as well. – Mr President, firstly, I should like to pay respect to my colleagues Mr Watts, Mr Savary and Mrs Darras for bringing this point to the House for our consideration. It is ironic that I speak on this subject because, as a rapporteur, I helped push through this House the issue of free movement of goods at border areas where there was disruption. Primarily it was meant to attack the issue of industrial relations at borders. But this is interesting: I praise and applaud the Commission's lateral thinking about the application of these articles that have been laid before them. I knew then, as I know now, that the requirements set down in that particular set of articles were merely mechanistic, that it comes down to political goodwill. People here today will appreciate that it requires all parties to pay attention to what is happening at the Channel Tunnel and to make sure that they do not allow it to be obscured by the mere arguments, cultural or political, that exist there. There are problems. In this particular issue there are problems of slender resources – we understand that – whether of the police or of security personnel at the areas where they are involved. But we need to get freight through unfettered. Let us also recognise that this is an international problem. People have been displaced as a consequence of wars and of major disruption and there are also economic émigrés who will pay any price to get into the UK. Quite often it is a price paid to criminal gangs, there to exploit the motivation of these people. Real solutions, therefore, lie in the hands of politicians coordinating their actions at government level. Peace and development in the areas of the world facing crisis are also what we must strive for. In France we have also seen, all too unfortunately, human tragedy that has left in our minds the human aspect of all that is going on there. The attempts of the French authorities to tighten security are welcome. The highest level of vigilance must continue to be demanded, as Mr Watts has said. Attending to this question in the House confirms the international status and interest which it deserves. Not just the Channel Tunnel, but other issues as well, will be resolved by such processes. This gives us just such a platform to launch that process. – Mr President, congratulations to the Commissioner for a very bold and courageous proposal. Indeed, you should rest assured that many in this House support you in this move even if some would perhaps suggest quite the opposite. Car manufacturers will not change their behaviour. They are doing too well to want to do that and we have waited the best part of decade for them to do so since the last review. Will we have to wait another decade for them to come back to this House to say the same things time and time again? And, in the meantime, consumers across the European Union will have to pay, as they have always done, and as they will continue to do unless we tackle the issue of the cartel. It is very clear from your proposals, Commissioner, that you want to do just that and you have the support of the Labour delegation in this group and other delegations across this room. I hope that the support which you have received here will give you the courage to continue in this bold move and that we will finally see some reduction in the activity of this cartel and some improvement for the consumer across the European Union. – Mr President, risk capital is essential for job creation, since between 80% and 90% of funds raised from venture capital goes towards hiring people. SMEs account for 66% of total employment in the Community, SMEs and start-up businesses and venture capital therefore need to have easy access to each other. Although European venture capital has grown rapidly, we still remain considerably behind the US. With this in mind, I welcome the importance attached to the Lisbon Summit on venture capital. Although progress has been made, it is also less focused on the high growth and job creation sectors of information technology, biotechnology and healthcare. Coordinated action is needed and necessary at both EU and Member State levels in these areas. In order to achieve this, we need to create a regulatory environment conducive to risk capital. A number of regulatory measures need to be introduced. A directive on supplementary pension funds needs to be considered urgently and not put on the back burner; we also need an update on EU accountancy rules, a single prospectus for pan-European capital fundraising and the directive on late payment in commercial transactions needs to be implemented on time. Similarly, the reform of the European patent system seems absolutely essential in this area, as an early adoption of this directive is needed to create an online database to help SMEs check whether or not patents exist and how they can apply for them themselves. SMEs – foolishly perhaps – disregard the patenting system. We need to lighten the administrative burden on SMEs, and measures to reduce the stigma on bankruptcy are long overdue because, although there is a wide range of funding instruments available, SMEs and entrepreneurs seeking funding for their new ventures continue to face difficulties. A website could be created to help overcome this at European level. There needs to be a review and rationalisation of Community instruments supporting risk capital. This needs to be more coherent and better integrated between the Commission, the Member States, the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund. The EIB, the EIF and the European Commission also need to broaden their support for risk capital investment to a wider range of institutions and more innovative instruments, for example, business angels. Evidence in the US suggests that informal venture capital provided by such people is up to five times as much as with formal procedures. Similarly a Community-up approach to risk capital is essential. Risk capital investment needs to go out to everyone, to all regions and to all communities. Public authorities here as in elsewhere also have a key role to play in providing risk capital and financial support in areas where the private sector will fear to tread. Initiatives such as mentoring have helped in these areas. I praise the Prince's Trust in the United Kingdom for the work they have done. Finally, the lack of entrepreneurial culture and insufficient human resources and training and the lack of high-tech SMEs are all factors which need to be addressed in order to develop risk capital. It is my belief that the EU has far more potential than is being realised at present. In order to unlock this potential we need to make changes, not only to the regulatory environment but also to the culture. It is essential that we realise the importance of risk capital to growth and employment and review the ways in which risk capital can be rationalised, simplified and made more accessible. Essentially, we need to take the measures which I have outlined and which have been outlined by the Commission and others in order to achieve a joined-up approach to raise the level of risk capital in the European Union and to extend the job-creating benefits to all parts of the European Union. As regards the new amendments which have been resubmitted after the committee vote, I am not in favour of Mr Tannock's Amendment No 1, but I approve Amendments Nos 2 to 9. Of Amendments Nos 10 to 20, I only approve Amendments Nos 14, 17 and part of Amendment No 18. I welcome the views of everyone in my committee and I believe we have a real consensus. I hope to maintain that by supporting the amendments I have just mentioned. .Key elements of subsidiarity and effective choice of a proper regulatory body as the final arbiter give cause for concern in this report. Similarly, the call for statistical information to be made public as a solution to public awareness of what affects markets is impracticable and impossible to achieve. The subsequent costs to industry also amount to a disproportionate effect. Paragraph 12 is inconsistent with the EPLP line that tobacco and alcohol excise duties should be harmonised upwards in order to achieve the social goal of reduced use and to indicate the strength of feeling held – that is, that you can tax for social reasons. . – Mr President, the first question to be asked about this report is: Why do we need this directive? It is very interesting when you look at the statistics because the exact reasons become clear. Almost 10% of all occupational accidents involve falls from heights. One in ten of those involves permanent invalidity or death. Across the European Union in any one year there are approximately half a million falls from heights in the workplace. 300 000 of those result in absences from the workplace of more than three days and 40 000 result in serious injury. Unfortunately, 1 000 are fatal. Many of these accidents – many of which can be avoided – come about because of the poor use of scaffolding or ladders. In the UK, the Health and Safety Executive, the body looking at accidents in the workplace has estimated that some 30% of all prohibition notices in the United Kingdom are issued for unsafe scaffolding alone. In fact, 90% of all accidents on ladders come about because of the misuse of ladders. These are statistics gathered by industry groups and others and not because of equipment failure. Figures published recently by the European Agency for Health and Safety in Bilbao suggest enormous variations between Member States in the incidence of falls from heights. Such variations suggest that health and safety levels are not the same for all workers across the European Union. That is why we need to establish minimum requirements with a view to protecting workers from falls from heights. The current cost, both in personal terms and those of the workers and families affected and in terms of economic costs to industry and the social and health protection systems, warrants legislation in this area. Billions of pounds are spent caring for workers who have been injured or become ill. This can largely be avoided. The background to this proposal suggests additional reasons for having this legislation. This is an amendment to an existing directive on the general minimum requirements for work equipment at work. A proposal to include scaffolding in an earlier amendment to the directive was rejected by Parliament, thanks to many of my colleagues on the other side of the House. The directive finally adopted covered only two specific types of work equipment: mobile equipment and equipment for lifting loads which are very important areas in their own right. This directive will rectify this serious omission. If we do not include falls from heights, the only certainty is that there will be more and the rate will increase. If Parliament rejects this addition, then it must hold itself responsible for the consequences. The Commission’s original intention was to present a proposal for a scaffolding directive. However, because serious falls from heights do not occur only from scaffolding, the scope has been widened to include protection for workers from all manner of falls from heights. Although falls from heights occur in circumstances where ladders and scaffolding are not present, the main focus of the proposal is on scaffolding, ladders and rope access, as you will see as you read. The current rules in many Member States apply only to the building industry, so another important factor is that the scope is extended to other sectors. Also it is important to stress as some seem mildly confused about this, that this proposal is based on Article 138, previously Article 118a, which laid down the minimum requirements for ensuring a better level of protection for workers health and safety. We are not dealing with the construction, the concept or the design or work equipment, but with the risks to the health and safety of workers using the equipment. It does seem to me that there are some people in this House who are a little bit dim in grasping that. The importance of working at heights and having this directive is clear also. Some have questioned the validity of this legislation and they are free to do so. However, contrary to what has been suggested, this proposal does not merely suggest training people to use ladders, nor does it outlaw the use of ladders. What it does is provide for safe use of ladders and other equipment. I wonder whether the critics of this report have ever worked on construction sites as many of us have. I wonder whether they would accept that there are many people who know exactly what this legislation can bring about. Finally, concerning the amendments tabled, which I have only just seen today, I welcome Amendments Nos 22 and 25: Amendment No 22 as a second choice if Amendment No 5 falls and Amendment No 25 as a recital as it hits the tone of my report very well. However, for consistency’s sake and with regard to the framework directive which is the basis of this whole legislative approach, I cannot accept the others at present. Madam President, it was very useful to hear that statement from the Commissioner. It will go quite a long way in sending the right signals in addition to many already issued in the bond markets and the markets in general. Commissioner, you are right to say that today's report on transparency obligations is a central plank of the financial services action plan. It brings certainty to the financial markets and underlines the process by which companies must inform investors. There was much debate amongst the various stakeholders, sometimes leaving us quite confused and with the outcome looking slightly opaque, but I believe we have here the correct blend and a very useful piece of legislation we can push ahead with. There are some issues which ought to be underlined. The first is that despite the original plan we will no longer have a mandatory approach to quarterly reporting. That is clear. Parliament was absolutely right in rejecting it and also clearly right in supporting a compromise which regularises and standardises detailed explanations, but does not allow for the mandatory approach already foreseen. The reason for this approach is that we wish to forestall any short-termism and we wish to balance this against the need for any costs. I particularly hope that this will settle a lot of issues and that we will not see a repeat in German courtrooms of what we are seeing at the moment in discussions between certain companies and certain bourses. Furthermore, the type of accounting methodology we need and the necessary reconciliation with third country issuers is dealt here as well. The agreement reached between Parliament, presidency and the Commission to pursue a reconciliation mechanism is absolutely vital. We must therefore not drag our feet on this issue. I also mention the ten-year grandfather clause contained in Article 26 which refers to half-annual reporting. This too, Commissioner, is contentious, and that is why Article 29 contains another reference to a review of this legislation within five years of its full entry into force. Hard facts have been difficult to ascertain in this short period. We need to watch this very closely and I am glad you used the words 'watch very closely' as well. Parliament welcomes a decision to bring forward urgently legislation in the company law action plan forcing all senior managers to reveal their compensation packages to investors at some time in the very near future. We will be pressing this cause very much. We regard it as something which could have been here, but we let it pass since you are going to bring it in later. We will, however, be watching very closely indeed. Furthermore, there is a great expectation that the Council will be as good as its word – as will the Commission – in supporting the voluntary initiative to make transparent all payments made by companies in the extractive industries to all governments. In Angola, 25% of the state's income – some USD 1.7 billion – disappears every year. The majority of this money derives from the extraction of oil, and because of the way the money is paid and reported, little is truly known of the corruption. Frankly, it is hidden because it is illicit and it goes to the very top of government. The oil companies meeting in Canada next week and the governments of the European Union and the institutions dealing with good financial governance need to force the pace on this issue. They need to change what is going on. Investors need to know and companies should not gamble with their reputations. Moreover, those who steal from their own countrymen should be stopped. For example, post-war Angola's need for money is tragic for thousands of poverty-stricken families. Infant mortality, health in general and education are still priorities in this region, and yet basic greed still thwarts solid progress. Calling on these companies to be transparent now would be a cornerstone in good governance and openness. In five years' time Parliament will judge progress made in this legislation and it will be looking to see that it is balanced by the approach of the Commission and other institutions in encouraging this progress. Finally, I would like to thank all the services involved in this report, particularly Margaret Cazalet in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, my own Group secretariat, Annabel Garner-Boulay, the presidency, the Commission, along with my colleagues both in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market for the great help they have given in drawing up a very balanced report. – There have been some easy and pious words spread around tonight on working time. As everyone knows, it is effectively about health and safety. Yet it is fraught with problems. Nonetheless it should apply to all workers as an absolute principle, whoever they are. It is easy to see how some people pick on some groups but will not highlight the need for it to be applied to others. Of course, Mrs Smet, who has brought forward this report, having picked it up from the last Parliament, has to accept that as a former Council member she had to accept the common position of the Council which she now rejects. Missing in all this debate quite clearly are the necessary staged processes by Member States. It is after all an inelastic supply in certain circumstances, just as it is with doctors in training. Missing also are the efforts already made in certain Member States. In the UK, for example, proposals are in advance of this directive and have been welcomed by Andrew Hobart, chairman of the junior doctors’ committee who says he is delighted that an understanding has been reached on a new contract for junior doctors which will guarantee safe working hours in advance in the United Kingdom. Deep sea fishing –here is an area unique in its case which proves the rule that this working time directive is fraught with practical problems. But, after all, perhaps I can afford a smile. I agree with the principles of this report. I disagree with the estimated effects of all these amendments, but I think that is consistent with my position at all times. It will be interesting to see how some who feel free to pick and choose who should have effective limits on working time and who should not can explain that to the workers affected. Also, what about the emergency workers – paramedics and others. Do not they deserve to be a special case too? So before we get smug in our concern for just certain groups, what about sparing a thought for those others who carry out emergency health care at all times and are also derogated from certain aspects of the working time directive. Less smugness please, more practical application. The European Parliamentary Labour Party abstained on Amendments Nos 5, 7 and 8 to the Smet report on the Working Time Directive. Although the EPLP is committed to the extension of the WTD to the excluded sectors, it understands the need for this to be done in a rational way. We are committed to reducing the working hours of junior doctors, but it is essential that this is done in a planned and structured way which does not undermine patient care. This directive will require an adequate transposition period with staged reductions in working time. The fishing industry required flexibility. This amendment does not recognise the reality of the needs of the fishing industry and will adversely effect it. – Mr President, perhaps the most surprising thing about this is that in the committee vote it was only passed by 36 to 1. I would have thought that anything like this would automatically have got unanimity in committee. It is quite revealing also that it is only a recommendation. As the Commissioner will know from the 'falls from heights' directive, it was pretty clear that we needed a very strong political message to cover the self-employed. It is not only the construction industry that suffers from accidents every day of the week. For instance, the interpreters in the booths around us, who are often self-employed and have to work under very stressful conditions, are the very people we would expect to receive Community protection under Community law. You know very well that the European institutions abstain from introducing any of those laws to cover many of their staff, so we will not go down that path. There is no doubt that by recommending Community health and safety legislation for the self-employed we have taken a giant step forward. We should no longer rely on national statistics which tell us that accidents only happen to full-time employees. That is clearly ridiculous. You might – if you are a Christian – call a it sin that so many people involved in industries, just because they are considered self-employed, do not enjoy the protection they deserve. Mr Pérez Álvarez has spent a long time discussing health and safety in this Parliament. I am very pleased that he has taken on this report, because I know the commitment we need from all sides of the House. It is vital for the self-employed to be included in any health and safety and employment legislation that emanates from the Commission and this House. Everyone in Europe must enjoy the same level of protection. – Mr President, I too congratulate the rapporteur on the report which he will present to us tomorrow. We know he has worked extremely hard on this report and very closely with others in this Chamber to ensure its success. Clearly the changing industry of financial services lends itself very well to the new technologies which have emerged and continue to emerge across the world. The ability of consumers, confusing as it can be, to pick such technologies, to choose a variety of financial services within the individual Member States, has been with us now for some little time. But the choice of financial products across borders inside Europe is even more recent an affair. This means that services, rather than physical products – and the rights of consumers to have confidence in the performance of those services – is as vital here as it is for manufactured products. The marketing and advertising of services, the claims and boasts of providers, must be checked against the need to allay the fears of risk to consumers, to safeguard their purchases and exchanges by electronic means. This is why my group has so high a regard for the element of consumer safety. The country-of-origin principle is simply the best agreed way of approaching the process of harmonising the standards for attaining an EU-wide application of the guidance for those standards which are to be expected in those nations. At the same time Brussels, too, is clearly more than just an element for consideration by the Commission in this process. The amendments before the House allow for the flexibility required to pursue the exciting new medium of technology, as does the text. In particular I would like to recognise Mr Herzog's concerns, where he rightly points out in his amendments that we need to keep pace with technological change in order to reduce the possibility of criminality, of fraud and of money laundering. My group believes that so long as consumer interests can be asserted and maintained as an essential element of the provisions of this report, then it is obviously going to be willing to withdraw any amendments that might suggest derogations or deletions to the country- of-origin principle. The liberation of -commerce is the element of any dynamic European economy of the future; the counterbalance that has to be struck and which has to be fully realised is the effects it has on those who would use it as consumers. I commend this report to the House. . Because the British experience of liberalisation has generally been a positive one, albeit one with unequal benefits for consumers and the economy, the EPLP concurs with the general approach of the Commission. However, the EPLP believes there is a need for universality of service and for the protection of workers' rights and other social, environmental and economic benefits, both at the individual and the collective level. To this end the EPLP has voted to support those amendments which focused on those areas. Rather than a framework directive as called for by the rapporteur, the EPLP believes these issues should be decided on a sector-by-sector basis. The EPLP does not want to halt liberalisation, nor does it wish to prejudice competition laws and regulations. These are necessary in order for market reform to complete the single market and to achieve the Lisbon goals. . We fully support the Commission's original proposal for CAP reform as set out and unamended by the European Parliament, with the exception of Amendments 38 and 99, referring to health and safety. The CAP must be reformed. Payments must be subject to mandatory cross-compliance with the environment, rural economy, and animal welfare Directives. The position adopted by the European Parliament will perpetuate a system which is damaging to the environment, the rural economy and animal welfare, and prejudices high levels of health and safety and harms produce in the developing world. – As a co-sponsor with my colleague, Mr Watts, of amendments which were put forward in the trans-European networks on a strategic environmental impact assessment some four years ago at least, I find it quite surprising that it is said to be too early to talk about a comprehensive strategy in this particular direction. If it is too early to do that, surely the Council can provide us with some information about how it will properly coordinate this comprehensive strategy – when it comes into existence – across the various Councils. – Mr President, it is customary to be able to respond to the Commission if at the end a question has been ignored or not fully answered. We believe that the European Union is a virtual desert as far as venture capital is concerned and that this needs to be addressed urgently. There are perhaps only one or two countries amongst the 15 where it really operates. The rest of them, I am afraid, are virtually asleep. Even in those countries where it does operate it operates in a different way from the system across the Atlantic. At the very least, issues like the pension fund can be introduced fairly quickly. These issues must not to be put on the back burner. – Mr President, I am very pleased with the generous remarks that have been made and apologise for not being here on time. We can thank the chauffeurs' service of Parliament. As wonderful as it is at ferrying us in every day, they seem to have left me behind some half-an-hour after I asked for them to be there. Apart from this complaint, I should like to thank all the services that have been a part of this very successful report. I see Simon Duffin, for example, from our secretariat in Parliament, who was instrumental in bringing about many of the compromises, agreements and consensus in our committee. We should be generous in our praise for people like Simon and others in the Commission who worked tirelessly in bringing about this particular report. It is a first. Through an informal process, it may beggar belief to Mr Bushill-Matthews- although I thank him for his original praise to begin with – that it is an employer-friendly report. There is nothing like this that has come through the processes of health and safety. That may stagger you, but it is true. It is true for various reasons. Perhaps we ought to start off by reminding ourselves of the very reason why this report came about in the first place. The report was lost as a scaffolding or works-at-height directive, as an annex to an original report. The reason why it was lost was because originally it was blocked for reasons I will not bother to go into now. But sense prevailed and now we have it back. Five hundred thousand people each year fall from heights. That is quite a staggering amount across the European Union every year. Forty thousand – as you have probably already heard – are seriously injured; seriously enough for them to have three or more days off from work. A thousand, very sadly, die each year, with the consequent effects on administration, the burden to businesses of finding replacements, of training, finding the costs for compensating the relatives. That is quite a burden for business. Across the European Union the costs are estimated as being in the region of EUR 28 billion every year. That is enough for a whole host of hospitals, schools, roads, or whatever you want, across the European Union. Yet we still persist in allowing accidents to happen in the workplace. Forgive me for being passionate about this, but if you can stop accidents in the workplace, I say you are doing a favour for the workers in the enterprise and for the businesses themselves. We should strive to do that in the most reasonable and practicable way. Those people who know me, know me for being a practical person, not somebody up there in the clouds wishing further ideology to descend on businesses, but somebody who sees the real advantages for the person in the workplace. I worked at heights. I worked on scaffolding. I worked on ladders. I tried to carry things too large for people to be able to carry. I have seen it. Let me tell you these are not fly-by-night dreams of someone in Parliament. If I am a Labour MEP who has brought legislation in, I am very proud to do that because we may see a reduction of accidents in the workplace as a result of such legislation. Not only that, it is employer-friendly because it brings about a level playing-field. No longer will we have the competitive basis, on which some companies wish to compete, of people who prefer to miss out all these rules and regulations in favour of seeking the lowest cost, the lowest denominator in the workplace. That puts at risk the lives and livelihoods of those people who are the most vulnerable – the people who are working there. Parliament has been incredibly successful in this process. It has been successful for many reasons. It has partly been successful because it has been able to include things which the Commission and the Council were not originally willing to consider. These are not burdens. I do not think that including self-employed people in this particular legislation is burdensome. When you look at the contracting industry – take electricians, for example – the vast majority are self-employed. The report has not only looked at contracting industries in the building sector but looked across a wide spectrum of people working at heights. It is not just people working on building sites that fall from buildings or scaffolding, it is across a range of different industries. It seems remarkable that this could be so misrepresented. Parliament also stood out in favour of maintaining a sensible balance between too much detail and that which needs to be regulated. We need regulation if we are to have the kind of standards which a civilised European Union wants to see. This move was underlined by the fact that Parliament took a very mature interest in some of that detail and effectively helped people, for example, who have to carry huge weights on ladders, to consider the very serious problems that could happen to themselves and the very serious injuries. Not all the amendments came from the Socialists. It is not as if we were some devious clique involved in destroying businesses. Amendments came from the other side of the House as well. Let us not forget that. You are criticising your own colleagues as well. This is a very successfully arranged piece of legislation. It has been achieved through consensus and goodwill in our committee. I thank all the people who have been a part of that. I hope we will be able to enjoy the success for many years to come. .On amendments which were submitted by the Green Party, I would like to make the following explanation for my vote against. Where amendments proposed incorporating GMO and nuclear issues inside the scope of the directive, I voted against. This is because nuclear liability covered by the Vienna and Paris Conventions is currently being reviewed. Any attempt here would be presumptuous as to that review's outcome. On GMOs it is clear that liability still has to be worked out, as legislation dealing with GMOs has only just come on to the statute books. Let us see how that works first. All else undermines conventions or existing law. . – Mr President, I am glad to see the tradition of speaking to the Commissioner is still alive and well. I am particularly pleased with the comments she has made. I hope that Parliament’s amendments will be adopted tomorrow as I am sure they will be, despite the elements in this Parliament which do not seem to want to join in and that we will have an interesting discussion with the Council. I wonder if the Commissioner would join me in deploring the way in which this report has been treated, with parts – notably the ladders – being isolated and suggestions made – by Mr Bushill-Matthews for one – that this is something that is futile if not childish. Commissioner, I hope you will agree that this is a Treaty obligation for us all to look at. The basis is Article 138, which was previously Article 118a – and if I am right, we must look into the costs – administrative and otherwise – for small-to-medium-sized businesses, as laid down in the Treaty already. This is a small-to-medium-sized-business-friendly piece of legislation, but more importantly it is friendly to the workers who have to use this equipment. That is why the legislation is there and is to be applied across the European Union. If only Mr Bushill-Matthews had been here when I first started, he would have heard some of the arguments which I wish to place before this House as to why it is important to have EU legislation. It is a great problem when you do not hear the arguments, but you merely come in with your own loaded thoughts. Indeed, it is a great shame, and I hope that Mrs Villiers will come back some time and perhaps pay a visit to our committee so she can hear some of the debate about this report as well – because I noticed that she disappeared soon after she made her point – maybe we will read about that in the papers as well. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Bushill-Matthews, who is here, that the journalist on the  to which you sent your press releases on this report, rang me back and asked me about a specific amendment that contained your phraseology and your words, which he said was the nonsense part of this whole directive. Perhaps you can correct him instead of correcting us. Mr President, this House is fast demonstrating that it can solve things that even the Council cannot solve. Maybe that suits us for what may happen in the very near future. I hope, Commissioner, you will take note of that. But if the financial services plan is to work, this directive has to be in place. There is no point in acting on the issues of barriers of national protectionism if we look backwards. If we do not look at what is happening with the global financial position then Europe, its investment, its potential for growth, all the risk capital action plan issues of the Lisbon European Council go by the by. As in so many of these issues, as before, we in Parliament, as elsewhere, have often been distracted by our own national concerns as opposed to what happens with the European economy. I commend the rapporteur for the work she has done. Acting in the way she has done - and I am being cheeky here - she is acting in the most European of ways. As we know, markets cross borders. I am glad that as a British Conservative she has acted in a European fashion. – Mr President, a fiscal responsibility for Member States is a must, inside or outside the eurozone. It would be disastrous for us to act recklessly and even worse for countries to consider themselves above an agreement which disciplines us all for the sake of a stable eurozone. Having said that, I am and have always been in favour of an intelligent and flexible interpretation. Clearly there is room for improvement. I am sure the Commission recognises this. The economic cycle calls for more than an annual disapproval. Monitoring over such a short period of time is incompatible with real-time analysis. I am sympathetic to Mr Santos' view that the cyclically adjusted deficit approved over the economic cycle is both sensible and prudent. Growth and stability are twin pillars. The Lisbon Summit gave voice to the possibility of a single market which was matched by investment in training and release of capital through the use of the financial services action plan, complemented by the risk capital action plan. However, we are still falling behind competitively. There are no high walls to keep the market out. The EU is increasingly in danger of being left out. The risk to the Community of not tackling substantial structural reforms is too great to be ignored. If we delay now, that will worsen, not ameliorate, economic downturns. Today's discussions have been entertaining and humorous in many respects. In particular I thank Mr Olle Schmidt for the view that Sweden will join the euro and hopefully set a very good example for the UK, which will join very shortly afterwards. . This report, which culminated in the common position, promotes health and safety for all workers across the EU who have to work at heights on temporary equipment. It is a law which is both employer-friendly as well as efficient at directing attention towards the ‘safety culture’ and practices required to save lives and reduce injuries. The Labour Group has sought at all times to reduce any unnecessary burden on business whilst at the same time to promote the most effective and practicable of solutions that can be realised by legislation. – Mr President, like some of the previous speakers this evening, I am very pleased the Council came forward with this proposal. I do not think that it will be helped by the amendments being proposed inside this Parliament today and indeed in our committee. Whatever they say about having had to vote for the report as a whole at the end in the committee, it does not persuade me that some committee members did not also have concerns about the effects of some of those amendments. Some of the opportunities of this nascent market, which we are now seeing emerge in the European Union, will be affected by some of the suggestions being made. Whereas money supply, of course, is of very direct interest to any central bank, there is in this case no direct inference that it will have the effect that everyone suggests it will have, i.e. that e-money will be anything other than a means of exchange, a redeemable voucher if you like or a mechanism expected to be involved in trade. Because of the very limits that Mr Huhne talked about, this is, of course, very closely controlled by the Council's proposed waiver and particularly by some of the sensible compromises suggested earlier. I personally, and the EPLP Group, could wholeheartedly support something like the compromise Amendment No 5 which Mrs Kauppi put forward in committee; but I am afraid if Amendments Nos 3 and 4 were adopted here in Parliament this week, we would see this legislation fall. Be in no doubt about that, this legislation would fall. I would worry very seriously about the motives of the people who would like to see this legislation fall, because any vacuum which would be created would be a vacuum the European Central Bank would find itself eased into. As an institution which has kept outside any form of regulation that is decided here or anywhere else, I find that a worrying idea. Let me ask all comrades and colleagues around this room today to consider the effects of the amendments that could be passed this week, the damage they could cause, the lack of confidence that would surely emerge and the damage it would do to this nascent market. . – The south east of England was one of the regions first hit by the foot and mouth outbreak in the UK. As such, this report outlines many of the measures necessary to prevent such an outbreak occurring on the same scale in the future. However, there were many discrepancies introduced by politically motivated amendments which distorted the report; In particular: suggestions of breaches of animal welfare legislation. No prosecutions of any complaints occurred. Lapses in bio-security. Investigations proved no such lapses occurred. The culls were pronounced illegal. The courts found in favour of government action with regard to the contiguous cull. It was deemed a measure that was necessary to stem the spread of the disease. The European Commission was informed at  times. Breaches of environmental legislation. The Environment Agency looked into matter and found no environmental harm, In the south east of England, Labour MEPs felt that statistical error and political misinformation have combined to produce an inaccurate picture of the outbreak and the UK Government's fight to deal with it. – Mr President, I am a great believer in health and safety, but I am also a great believer that we are not going to change everything by legislation. If we could legislate away things like poverty, accidents, illness and death, then we should have done it yesterday, but we are not going to do that. That being said, there are things we can do at European level, which include changing the culture, the culture where we work, the culture we live in. This report by Mr Pronk goes some way towards doing that and doing it very well. He should be congratulated on all that, because he has brought excellent conclusions into this report. He has made history as well, by having the first report to go through under codecision and the first report on health and safety. It augurs very well for the future of what we should hope to achieve through this process, because Parliament has been very responsible in its approach to using codecision. Parliament is not always pointed to as being responsible or informed, but in this particular area we were better informed and, in some respects, I feel, more responsible. It has made spectacular progress in the area of small to medium-sized enterprises, by far the biggest sector we could ever hope to address. This is where most accidents occur in the workplace and yet there is undisguised dismay amongst myself and other colleagues at the fact that we take very little account of this. You are 50% more likely to have an accident at work if you work for a small to medium-sized business. The information which will be provided, which was a vade mecum in this report, to small businesses and which they now have a right to be informed about, will go a long way in helping to change the culture in the workplace. It should be used in other reports in other areas, and we should learn from that. On the other hand, as a participant in the conciliation process, I was pleased at the very real response of the Council to Parliament’s amendments and take note for future reference about how we can achieve the various amendments and positions we wish. Under the former procedure of cooperation of course we had our successes and the Commission was very much a part of that, and we still enjoy that acceptable relationship. Safety is one of those areas where we can always find middle ground to achieve what we really want. It is time now for governments to listen to what this Parliament has to say 100% of the time and for those governments to act. Parliament is not in opposition to other institutions, it is a balance and it is a brake. It is unfortunately precisely because ministers were too close together, too keen to have cosy relationships away from scrutiny at European level, that we now have this process. It introduces transparency and clarity, and that can only be good for the trust of the people of Europe. Many lives will be affected by this report and the work that has gone into it, many businesses will be pleasantly surprised by the balanced outcome, and if there was more work like this, perhaps even Europe would become popular in places like Britain, who knows? .The EPLP voted against amendments concerning taxation changes and abstained on the final vote, consistent with its attitude on taxation. – Mr President, economies differ – that is just a fact. The Stability and Growth Pact has to have a far more sophisticated interpretation. The background for this has to be sound public finances and a stable economy. Furthermore, as you have stated, it needs to take into account the economic cycle for budgetary policy. Also, further reforms have to be sustainable, measured against the country's debt profile. We must also allow for public investment, because that can lead to the growth that you referred to in the Lisbon Summit and not just deal with welfare. Countries like the United Kingdom for example after all those disastrous years of under-investment under Tory governments, need to catch up and we must be able to let them do that. But the fact is that, as the old joke says, 'if you line up all the economists around the world head to toe, you may never reach a conclusion'. What we do not want is to line up the Commission head to toe and find out that all that is left is inconsistency. Let us change the Stability and Growth Pact. Let us make it flexible – you can help do that – but let us recognise that it has to be a sophisticated instrument in a real economy. –) Mr President, I can assure the Honourable Member that the issue of core labour standards is a very important one for the country holding the Presidency, and we shall try to make progress in this matter. I would, however, like to point out that we must strive to find solutions that are positive for developing countries and which could thus gain positive acceptance. I must say that we will certainly have to consider inter aliafirmer commitment on the part of the Union in its own policy on aid to developing countries to support those very countries that are making progress in their own labour standards. – Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur, the Commission and the presidency on producing a package of compromises. It has been an issue of compromise all the way through. I understand all the hard work that has been put into it, but let us say straight away that many people have been involved, inside and outside this Chamber, perhaps more than we know. However, the people who have not been involved - as is so often the case - are the people most likely to benefit or suffer from our decisions. Compromise was very necessary. This is not a directive aimed at replacing the first pillar social security-type pension provision. In the UK, for example, people aged 16 have recently been outnumbered by people aged 60. Throughout the European Union this must leave no doubt in anybody's mind that we have an ageing society, one that will gradually cost more and must be adequately provided for so as to avoid future pensioner poverty, a very real risk. The problem is that many people, even today, do not feel obliged or encouraged to save for their retirement. Many companies are hamstrung by administrative and legal costs prohibiting the promotion of such funds across the European Union. That is a statement of fact. Even though this directive delivers a balanced view, taking into account the various factors affecting Member States, it is clear that the cross-border approach to supplementary pensions needs more in the way of liberalising articles. I hope that we will come back to this discussion at a later date. Some companies in my country which believe that they can pull out of defined benefit schemes have even looked to this particular directive as an excuse, but Brussels gives no such excuse to those companies. Lump sum payments have been dealt with in a way that pensioners in many countries will feel is a reflection of what already occurs. That is an important minimum. It is clear that the changes we have introduced on transparency and registration are improvements that everyone in this House can live with. .–I fully support the move to create a European network of permanent national football information points. Such a common-sense and workable solution to the problems of football crime and disorder is long overdue. Until recently, Member States have had to contend with and fight against such problems in virtual isolation. Co-operation in this domain is a positive way to limit the negative effects that a few hooligans have on the game. In order that co-operation is as close as possible, there must be an exchange of personal data of those few who pose a threat to security. This does not pose a threat to individual privacy, but it does represent a boost to enhanced security at football matches. .I fully support this report to enhance present legislation to protect minors. It is recognised that a child's welfare is the responsibility of their legal guardians, but children are exposed to all manner of potential malevolent influences in the media, and especially from the Internet. Whilst the EU has been active in protecting children from harmful media influences, such as the 1999 action plan and the Council recommendation, it is high time that a more concrete action plan was developed which involves not only policy-makers, but also NGOs, consumer groups and voluntary associations. Controlling the media is a mammoth task and Europe needs to draw on as many expert sources as possible in order to harness what is increasingly a harmful influence on children. We should never forget that the so-called new media, the Information Society, is a double-edged sword where children are concerned: it is a valuable information and learning resource but can also expose them to detrimental information. . – It is time that the EU acts in European airlines' interests since they are one of the most severely affected industries of the events of 11 September. I fully support this report, therefore, which aims to lift the financial burden for paying for increased security that airports and airlines currently face. If Europe's airlines are to stay competitive with their American counterparts, they cannot afford to shoulder the additional burden that 11 September has thrown at them. Indeed, in the present climate where American airlines enjoy massive financial handouts, tax breaks and state aid, it is grossly unfair to expect Europe's airlines to survive, let alone compete, when they are currently compelled to pay for new increased security measures. I also welcome the move to delay the entry into force of this legislation until 31 December 2003: airlines need time to carry out the necessary retraining and to purchase additional equipment. .I fully support moves to increase worker protection against the health risks of exposure to asbestos. Since the numbers of people affected by asbestos are predicted to rise considerably by 2020, legislation must be upgraded to  acceptable levels of exposure. In order for the EU to show itself to be serious about non-implementation of this legislation, the use of sanctions against irresponsible employers is vital. I also welcome the move to provide EU funding for training and information about the health risks associated with asbestos. Essentially, this report should lead to a more sensible preventative – rather than curative – approach to asbestos poisoning and it could potentially result in much lower figures of workers affected. . – Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Parliament's rapporteur, Mr Färm, for his extremely cooperative and helpful approach to the budget this year. For the first time in my parliamentary career I can honestly say I am looking forward to working with the Committee on Budgets on this year's budget. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy fully supports the Commission's reforms, which have increased its effectiveness and efficiency of delivery in the field of foreign affairs. We have some concerns, however, for the 2003 budget. Firstly, as we take on more responsibilities and as the Council goes around the world promising support here there and everywhere, insufficient thought seems to be given to where we get the money from. If we are to maintain the ceilings as they are, the only ways we can pay for increased responsibilities are either through the increasing use of flexibility instruments – and we have reservations about that – or quite simply through cuts in other lines. How can we maintain long-term programmes of support for the poorest parts of the world if we are constantly robbing Peter to pay Paul? We must try to address that question, or at least get the Council to address it. Secondly, we must have greater transparency in the budget, and that has to begin with this year's PDB. Far too much time is spent playing hide-and-seek, trying to work out what the Commission is actually proposing and why it is proposing to do it. It may be understandable to our budget junkies in the Committee on Budgets, but for us normal human beings most of it is incomprehensible. We cannot have cooperation between Parliament and the Commission unless we have greater transparency. Thirdly, we need to work harder still on implementation to make sure that we are spending the money and not just committing it, and that we are spending it in accordance with the priorities which are set out by Parliament during the budgetary procedure. Fourthly, we must have greater clarity in financing the CFSP – particularly the difference between administrative and operational expenditure. I would support the Commission's proposal on civilian crisis management and oppose the Council's clear intention of cutting Parliament and the Commission out of that. Finally, we must take more effective action in the field of small arms and light weapons; and if that is to be achieved, I believe it has to be moved into the first pillar. . – I welcome this report which calls for a consolidation of existing European food hygiene and animal health inspections. Food hygiene is something which affects European citizens' daily lives and a topic in which many people have great interest. It is important, therefore, that all legislation relating to this question should be as clear and accessible as possible. The call for all food businesses to be registered is also apt. At present, no such system exists and it is time that food producers became solely liable for food safety. If this is to become the case, when food safety issues arise, consumers will have less bureaucracy to deal with and a better idea of who is culpable. Lastly, the call for  meats to be treated equally under the new rules is also welcome. There is no compelling justification to treat game differently from other meats, as is the case at present. Indeed, if a European citizen has problems with food safety only to find that there is an exemption for the particular meat in question, it could render this whole package of measures meaningless. .I wholeheartedly support this report which endorses the Commission report on financial assistance to SMEs through the Growth and Employment Initiative. Since it is presently the case that most SMEs have some difficulty in breaking into the technology market, this financial assistance can often symbolise the make or break of a potentially very successful SME. It is all too often bemoaned that the EU has failed to foster a culture of innovation and enterprise: the European Investment Fund (EIF) is a vital way in which this imbalance can and should be redressed. The call for the close evaluation of projects is also welcome: in such a way there will be a vital element of accountability in the scheme. To bolster this, the call for the involvement for the European Parliament is also vital. – It is a delight to have Mr Haarder with us again, in a different role. But may I say with respect that now that he has become part of the government he acquired the government's habit of not answering the question. How exactly is the Council going to approach the issue of impact assessments? If the Commission carries out an impact assessment as part of its better regulation proposals, will the Council, when it amends the Commission's proposals, carry out a further impact assessment of its own amendments? How will it do that and who will it get to do it? It is very important in terms of the interinstitutional agreement with Parliament to know exactly what the Council's approach is to impact assessments. – I fully endorse this report, which calls for a revitalisation of European youth policy. Whilst young people have not been entirely marginalised in the project of European integration, there has not been enough sustained emphasis on their importance for the future of Europe. Indeed, the future of European integration depends upon the interest and support of the next generation, and since war is not at the forefront of young people's minds – and will no longer act as a catalyst for integration – it is vital that we include them now. A stronger European youth policy can help to bolster and reinforce measures taken at national level to deal with universal problems such as drugs and alcohol. Finally, since all Member States face the lamentable situation of increasing voter apathy – particularly amongst the young – the call for more young political engagement is most welcome. It is more useful to look for a pan-EU solution to this problem than for Member States to seek a solution individually. .I welcome the move to shake up Europe's energy markets: this will make markets more open and accessible to all. If the final directive contains many of the useful amendments proposed by the Industry Committee, European energy consumers will operate in a considerably more favourable climate than they do at present. Bills will contain more basic information and consumers will be better informed of exactly what they are paying for. Even more significant for European consumers will be the proposed non-discriminatory access to networks for different competitors. Basic economics tells us that more competition for networks should result in an eventual decrease in prices: good news for some consumers who, in the present system, end up paying over the odds. This is equally goods news for small energy companies who are sometimes deterred from further expansion owing to high market entry costs. Gas and electricity are basic necessities, not luxury goods, and this directive will be a triumph for most European consumers and some producers of energy. Mr President, I wish to begin by fully associating the Socialist Group with the remarks of Commissioner Verheugen in relation to Cyprus; no doubt my colleague Mr Poos will say more about that later. I have always argued that this enlargement is going to make or break the European Union. If we handle it well, it will greatly strengthen the Union. A recent report by the economists Ernst [amp] Young in the United Kingdom showed the benefits the United Kingdom would receive from enlargement. However, if it is handled badly, it will seriously damage the Union. Thus there is still a lot at stake in making sure that we get it right. That is why it is so crucial for the applicant countries to fully meet the standards required because, if they do not, we run the risk of having a backlash in public opinion not only in the 15 but also in the 10. We still need greater emphasis – as Mr Brok stated in the report – on implementation and enforcement. We must have proper transparency on state aid, competition policy and public procurement because, if enlargement is to work, the business community and trade unions have to be convinced that there will be fair play. We must not relax our drive against corruption. Corruption undermines economic progress. The EU country defined by Transparency International as being the least corrupt is Finland. The EU country with the most successful economy is Finland. The two things are closely related. The culture of the brown envelope passing between ministers and senior officials has no part to play in a modern, dynamic economy. However, the candidate countries also have to realise that by joining the European Union they are committing themselves to the standards of the European Union, such as democracy and human rights. That is why I was so horrified to see in Lithuania that the leading daily newspaper  has been publishing crude anti-Semitic and homophobic articles, the first of which, on 20 February, contained a cartoon on the front page which is straight out of the Nazi propaganda of the 1930s. Such sentiments have no place in the European Union: racism and xenophobia are cancers that destroy our society. They have done so in the past and will do so again if we drop our guard. We completely condemn these articles. I regret the time it took for the Lithuanian media and authorities to take action and to respond. I hope the Council and the Commission also condemn those articles. We must recognise the difficulties that some applicant countries have faced and that they have made enormous progress in a very short period of time. That is why we have always had a very balanced approach and recognised the efforts that the candidate countries have made. That is why I regret the tone of the original Nicholson report on Romania. We have always said that each country should be judged on its merits and has to meet the standards or we will vote not to admit them. We have never said the negotiations should be suspended in the middle of a process. We know that there are serious problems Romania has to address. We know that past governments did not treat these negotiations seriously, but the current government does and it is making major efforts to catch up, as Baroness Nicholson herself has admitted. Thus our message should be to encourage Romania to intensify its efforts, not to try to pull the rug from underneath its feet at this crucial moment. I fear, given some of the misleading information in the original report, that party politics have more of a role to play than objectivity.  The new countries have a right to criticise the European Union. We have been very niggardly in relation to the free movement of labour. I am appalled at the dreadful populist campaign – which has often been racist – run by sections of the European press. I am even more appalled at certain politicians who have jumped on the bandwagon, including, I am ashamed to say, the British Conservative Party, which said it supported enlargement, has never raised this issue in the past and then started to dance to the tune of its tabloid masters. I hope that when reality – rather than mythology – rears it head after 1 May, Member States can start to ease these restrictions. I hope that on 1 May we will enter into a brave new world of solidarity and cooperation, not of recriminations and national tensions. We need these countries to work together on economic reform to boost jobs. We need these countries to work together with us to stop multinational crime. We need these countries to work with us to deal with the problem of people trafficking – the 21st century version of slavery. Together we can strengthen Europe. If we can do that, we will have a lot to celebrate. That is what we should be aiming for on 1 May. .– I wholeheartedly support this report by Ms Weiler which welcomes the 2002 employment guidelines. Whilst the report recognises that full employment can be achieved through further structural reforms of the labour market, it also calls for increased investment in training, especially for job seekers. The quantitative, as well as qualitative, returns that the EU would reap as a result of its commitment to training are unquestionable. Training and education are essential ways in which EU Member States can jointly boost the EU's employment rate. Time and again in Member States, investment in education and training has proved to be successful and when coordinated at a pan-European level, this would be amplified. It is important that these commitments are realised and that they do not simply turn into hot air. Finally, the recommendation that both sides of industry should agree on changes in working practices could pave the way for enhanced industrial relations and create a situation whereby the specialist knowledge of each party is fully utilised. – Mr President, I have to say that I am surprised at how little has been said in this debate about the fact that a people has been liberated, that freedom reigns where terror once did and that Shia clerics are now able to return to Iraq in an atmosphere of religious toleration where once they were murdered. In the last few days we have seen a reminder of the nature of Saddam's regime with the discovery of yet another mass grave. Too much of the debate has been about apportioning blame for what has happened in the past and too little of it has been about looking forward. Ensuring that Iraq is run by Iraqis for Iraqis should be an absolute priority. The wishes and needs of the Iraqi people should be paramount. It is for that reason that I welcome the draft UN Resolution, which addresses the immediate needs of the Iraqi people. It lifts sanctions: how many people in this Chamber have been calling for that over the last few years? It envisages a political process to put the country back into the hands of the Iraqis with the involvement of a UN special coordinator. It sets up a process to wind up the 'Oil for Food' programme while ensuring that oil can only be sold for the benefit of the Iraqi people and it creates a new fund for the reconstruction and humanitarian needs of Iraq which involves the IMF and the World Bank. There are of course many problems to be dealt with. We cannot run reconstruction from the top down as if it were a military campaign. We cannot impose systems and procedures dreamed up in Washington and expect them to work. We have to have a bottom-up approach which involves the Iraqi people first and foremost. In order for that to happen, the establishment of security, effective policing and the rule of law should be given absolute priority. My concern is that American troops, unlike British troops, are not equipped for policing action and our priority therefore should be to get police into northern Iraq. We have already seen security established largely in southern Iraq. My final concern is that there has been no proper discussion on debt reconstruction in Iraq, nor even on who the debt belongs to. Until we resolve these issues there will be no long-term solution for Iraq. .Mr President, I fully support the move to make producers and consumers of electrical goods more environmentally responsible. By compelling producers to participate in take-back schemes, this directive will be hard-hitting and effective. Indeed, disposing of electronic waste has yet to be dealt with effectively and shifting the onus onto the producer may well prove to be an effective solution. However, to ensure that manufacturers adhere to this directive and that it is successfully implemented, account must be taken of the peculiarity of some manufactured goods. It should not end up being the case that some producers bear an unfair share of the financial burden that this directive implies. The directive is also right to mention the role that consumers must also play in disposing of electrical waste. Lastly, since some Member States are clear laggards when disposing of electrical waste, it is vital that there is ample provision of information about the new rules. – I welcome moves to improve relations with Iran. But we must always take account of the fact that human rights in Iran are, if anything, getting worse and not better. Iran is continuing to fund terrorist groups such as Hizbollah who are active in the Middle East. In particular, Iran funds terrorist groups that are still holding hostage a number of Israeli soldiers who are officially posted as missing in action. If Iran is serious about developing better relationships with the West, it ought to put pressure on those groups to release those soldiers. In particular, I would draw Parliament's attention to the case of Ron Arad, an Israeli air force officer who, in 1986, was captured by a Shi'ite militia group in Lebanon. He was then in 1987 sold to another group which was funded and run by Iran. He has not been seen since 1987; his daughter was an infant when he was taken hostage. Would it not be an appropriate message for this season of goodwill if she could at long last see her father who disappeared 15 years ago? Please would Iran help these soldiers be released if it is serious about developing peace with the rest of the world. – Mr President, on behalf of the European Parliamentary Labour Party, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the fair, open-minded and assiduous way in which he has carried out his task. This report, when he looks ahead, is an excellent report and provides useful guidelines for future action. Unfortunately, the committee and the plenary have chosen to amend the text in relation to what happened in the past, in such a way that my delegation found it impossible to support it and indeed voted against it. We strongly reject the questions about the legality of the culls because the courts in the United Kingdom upheld their legality. We strongly reject the idea of breaches of animal welfare legislation because there have been no prosecutions as a result of investigations of those claims. We strongly reject the claims concerning breaches of environmental legislation because the Environmental Agency has conducted its assessment and come to the conclusion that there was no environmental harm. We reject the claim of biosecurity lapses because there was no evidence of the spread of infection from carcasses being moved or by official personnel. We reject the figure of 10 million animals slaughtered because farmers have only claimed for 6.5 million and this is a fantasy figure being used for political gain. – Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Commissioner Patten for his kind words earlier on. When we are discussing the Code of Conduct, I think we have to set it in a very clear context. We should begin by recognising that the Code of Conduct is the most comprehensive international arms export control regime in existence. Nowhere else is there such a sharing of information about arms transfers. We must also recognise just how far we have come. We were told at one time that a Code of Conduct was not possible. Then, that if we had it, it would be no more than a statement of intention. Then, that any annual report would not be published. And then that the Parliament would never be consulted on such an annual report. All these things have come to pass, and we see that the Code, in operation, has developed its own in-built dynamics. So, it is actually taking Member States further than they initially wanted to go when they started off rather suspiciously with a Code of Conduct. We should recognise that and set all our criticisms in that context. The application of the Code is leading Member States towards greater dialogue, mutual understanding and greater convergence. What is fascinating for me is that the annual reports show that we are making progress on the very issues which the European Parliament has raised. We have often called for action to be taken on arms brokering, and we believe that it has been a fundamental weakness of the Code of Conduct that it has not addressed this issue. Therefore, we are very pleased that the third Annual Report states that guidelines for controlling arms brokers have been agreed in Council, that Member States should be looking to register arms brokers, and that these legal controls should be supported by penalties. We welcome that. However, the report does not say when this is all going to happen. We need a timetable for progress, so that all Member States take action in relation to arms brokers. We have called for greater transparency, both at national and European level, we recognise that some of the problem of lack of transparency is created by different Member States collecting information in different ways. We welcome, therefore, the improvements in the third Annual Report, but we are still having problems in relation to data collection and reporting. We look to the Danish Presidency, given its Nordic enthusiasm for transparency, to make progress in this area, during its time in office. At a national level, we welcome the fact that the third Annual Report has set out a matrix, seeking to note where information converges and where it does not. We would hope that that information is not used to reduce the information to the lowest common denominator; we should be working on best practice in this field. Under the Code of Conduct, Member States who grant a licence for an essentially identical transaction previously denied by another Member State should consult that Member State. We have never been clear about what 'identical transaction' means, so we welcome the third Annual Report's statement that 'there will be a broad interpretation of that phrase' – but we are still not clear what it means. Until we are clear what it means, there will be considerable uncertainty about the 'no undercutting' clause. I think we should be asking whether these transactions have an identical consequence. If that is the case, then they are an identical transaction; and we would be intrigued to know if consultation did in fact take place on the recent saga over Belgian exports to Nepal. We have asked in any case that these discussions should not be bilateral but multilateral. Therefore, we welcome indications that there will be multilateral discussions in cases where there is no agreement about whether a licence should be given. We would hope that will be expanded, although we recognise the difficulties it presents. We have also asked for greater efforts to be made on end-user certification, so we welcome the fact that the COARM working party is working towards this. We would like to see a Europe-wide database established in order to assist smaller countries, who find end-user certification and follow-up particularly onerous. We have also asked for action to be taken on licensed production abroad; and here again we welcome the fact that there is progress on this in the third Annual Report. What we would like to see, however, is clarification on the terms of the Code of Conduct with regard to the export of arms into areas of instability. To what extent – particularly given areas of obvious instability, such as India and Pakistan over Kashmir, or the situation in the Middle East – are Member States interpreting that? Finally, I would say that the third Annual Report is a huge step forward, but on closer inspection, much of it is about words and intentions rather than actions. My conclusion is this: we have come a long way, a lot has been done, but a lot more still needs to be done. . – I fully support this report which recognises the diverse advantages that sport has to offer, from improving social skills and integration to working with and including voluntary organisations. Here in the EU, we constantly reiterate the need to promote integration: sport is the ideal way to achieve this. For too long sporting activities have come second to so-called formal education. To relegate sporting activities is to deny the host of benefits that sport brings; it is something at which all people can succeed, regardless of class and race. So, the promotion of sport also bolsters and enhances other Community projects, ranging from the fight against racism and social exclusion, to the inclusion of disabled people. Since so many of the EU's goals can be partially realised by promoting sports, the EU must promote sport as a functional as well as recreational activity. Lastly, once Member States begin to co-operate more in this domain and demonstrate how they have mainstreamed sport into their education systems, we will finally come to realise the full potential that sport has to offer. Mr President, the Commissioner did not answer my third question about the accession of these 10 countries to the European Economic Area. It may be that he has chosen not to answer, but maybe he forgot. I would like an answer. . I support this report against the trafficking in human beings. Europe needs to crack down on the trade in trafficking human beings. Human trafficking involves force, violence, deceit and abuse of its victims and is totally unacceptable. Over 120,000 women and children are abducted from Eastern Europe each year to be brought into the EU for exploitation. Not only should this type of activity be punishable, but it should be classed as a criminal offence. I strongly believe there should be common rules for penalties with those guilty facing a minimum prison sentence of six years rising to ten years for more severe cases. All those involved in circles of human trafficking should certainly face stiff penalties, whether they are police officers, customs officials or civil servants. We must not forget the victims' needs and their suffering in all this. They should be given better support, including financial compensation from the confiscated proceeds of crime. The European single market allows borders to be crossed, but we must do all we can to prevent such exploitation of our borders. If we are truly a people's Europe, we must put the people first and protect them from abuses such as these. .I wholeheartedly applaud the call for EU Structural Funds to be made more efficient and more result-oriented. Indeed, Structural Funds are a prime way in which European citizens can be made to feel that the EU is doing something for them and it is crucial that the widespread impression of red tape and bureaucracy is not confirmed. All too often, the execution of Structural Funds has been bureaucratic and the implementation slow and inefficient. With considerable successive growth in the amount of money allocated to the Structural Funds, it is vital that the principles of productivity, regional added value and quality should not only be reiterated, but also vigilantly monitored. The effective allocation of the Funds requires the cooperation of all levels of European government. National governments have a role to play in freeing up the execution process and I favour the call by MEPs for a more direct channelling of Funds to the regions. In addition, the Commission should be more proactive in approving guideline documents, thus further freeing up the process. Finally, the consideration of Structural Funds and enlargement is apt: the EU could use this opportunity to allocate Funds more effectively, first time round. . – I fully support this report, which will potentially ensure that EU consumers operate in a level playing field and sales promotions are standardised across EU Member States. Indeed, one of the most compelling arguments in favour of the euro is that European citizens are able to compare prices across borders. This advantage is at present distorted by the fact that different types of sales promotion exist in member states and therefore cross-border price transparency is effectively distorted. Once this directive eventually comes into force, it will represent one more step towards the completion of a fully functioning single market. So this proposal is the best way to achieve price transparency and to ensure a level playing field. However, as the committee recommends, it should remain the prerogative of individual Member States to decide whether to ban discounts on fixed price products and I fully support the committee's insistence that the principle of subsidiarity must be upheld in this domain. .– I strongly support this excellent report by Maurizio Turco which calls for the extension of Europol's mandate and the addition of other non-binding arrangements. If Europol's mandate is extended to cover serious forms of international crime, such as kidnapping, illegal immigrant smuggling and racism, this body will become an institution with real biting power and one which can be seen as working in the interests and for the safety of European citizens. Moreover, the Swedish proposal to allow the onward transmission by third countries of personal data received from Europol is particularly important. It is well known that crime in the twenty-first century is borderless, and as such the EU should not and cannot operate Europol in a vacuum. This is why it is essential that Europol works in conjunction with third party states since only then will its full effectiveness be realised. – Mr President, I would like us to cast our minds back to September 11 2001. After those events we all agreed that the world had changed. We appreciated that global terrorism, a terrorism well-financed and organised with no clear political objective beyond creating chaos, required a new approach to security. It was clear that we can no longer take a passive approach. We can no longer sit on the sidelines tut-tutting when faced with dangerous, repressive regimes prepared to murder their own people, threaten regional security and nurture terrorism. We saw that we needed a pro-active approach, we needed to develop a concept of global justice for all people and to build a worldwide security system based on active involvement. We followed through on that in relation to Afghanistan, but now when faced with a difficult and dangerous crisis, we seem to have retreated into a comfort zone of our old certainties. We have particularly retreated to the cold war attitude towards the United States. We feel that the transatlantic relationship is some sort of zero-sum game. For one side to win, the other side has to lose. If we continue that process the world will become much more secure because every issue and every crisis will be divisive as we try to gather around separate poles. We need transatlantic partnership for the benefit of world security. We must ensure that we get global certainties and agreements for the future and not re-fight old battles. It may well be that the structures we set up after the second world war are not suitable for dealing with the post-September 11 world. In that case we should be working to the future, thinking about how we rebuild Iraq with United Nations support and how we secure peace in Iraq whilst respecting the rights of Iraqi people to their own future. As I speak, many thousands of my own countrymen and women are putting their lives at risk to free a people from tyranny. Many people do not agree with that war and I respect their views but I ask that this Chamber respects the position of the men and women whose lives are at risk. I am frankly amazed that, amongst all this talk of legality, I have not heard one word about Iraqi treatment of prisoners of war, which is contrary to the Geneva Convention. I have not heard one word of condemnation of Iraqi troops killing their own people in Basra. Imagine what British troops feel like seeing that happen and being powerless to stop it. . – Mr President, from the point of view of the Committee on Foreign Affairs one of our priorities has to be to ensure that our delegations in other Member States are properly looked after, in particular in relation to security. In view of deconcentration we want to ensure there is a proper infrastructure in place for our delegations. Secondly, we need to ensure that we have a proper civilian crisis management arrangement. In relation to Kosovo, we are concerned about the cuts being proposed and we need more information as to why they are necessary. If it is simply a case of how we upfronted our money, then that clearly is less of a problem. On enlargement, as Mr Färm has already indicated, capacity is a key element that we must work on in the next 12 months. I am encouraged by the commitment to greater cross-border activity, but I remain very doubtful about the way in which TACIS is currently being used. Finally, we must be aware that there is always the possibility of the need for major intervention in the Middle East, and I would love to know where the money would come from. – Mr President, the Socialist Group supports the Commission's proposals which have been outlined today. Today is an historic occasion. In many ways it marks another stage down the road begun by Willy Brandt when he was mayor of Berlin. Before dwelling on the historic nature of today, I would like to acknowledge that it has only been possible to get where we are thanks to the determination of the Commission. When President Prodi launched the new fast-track method of negotiation, it radically changed the enlargement negotiations. I would also like to pay tribute to Commissioner Verheugen, who has pursued his brief with great determination and with a unique ability to master the detail while holding on to the big picture. He has also been a model of transparency and openness. Enlargement is first and foremost a security issue. It is about admitting countries to a political and economic system which has brought peace, stability and prosperity to countries which spent much of modern history trying to destroy each other. In our discussions about the details, we must not lose sight of that fact. We have it in our power to reunite Europe and to create a genuinely Europe-wide Union dedicated to building stability and prosperity, not only for its own citizens, but also beyond its borders. Inevitably, as enlargement approaches reality, the voices of doubters are beginning to be heard. Some say enlargement is too costly. To those I would point out that in the period of 2000 to 2006, we will spend one thousandth of one percent of the EU's GDP on the candidate countries. We will spend ten percent of what Germany has spent on its reunification. What we spend is a fraction of the cost of defending Western Europe during the Cold War. The real question is – what is the cost if we do not enlarge the European Union? What will it cost in terms of the social, political and economic dislocation which will inevitably follow? Some say they are in favour of enlargement but not yet. They say we must wait for the reform of this or that policy. But politics is not like that. We do not sit around waiting for perfection. Enlargement is a dynamic process which itself will drive forward the process of reform within the EU. Enlargement is actually the solution to the problems which concern our voters – the concerns about crime and drugs, about the environment, about jobs and a better future for our children. We have a window of opportunity to enlarge. If we miss this moment, it will be lost for a generation and the cause of reform will be lost with it. Enlargement and reform go side-by-side. I do not wish to underestimate the very serious issues that must be addressed. The core of the EU is the Single Market and there can be no weakening of it. There can be no question of admitting countries that cannot or will not enforce the in this area, particularly in relation to state aids, competition policy and respect for intellectual property. There can be no question of admitting countries whose judicial system is corrupt or inept, or whose administrative capacity is not up to the task ahead. There can be no question of admitting countries unable or unwilling to take effective action to combat crime or the traffic of people and drugs. That is why I welcome the safeguards that the Commission has announced. I welcome in particular the economic safeguards in relation to the internal market which we have never had before, and also the commitment to have a further progress report six months before the date of accession. If there are problems then, we and the Council must have the courage of our convictions to act effectively in those circumstances. There are, of course, serious issues to be addressed in relation to agriculture. Firstly, there have been profound delays in the implementation of SAPARD. Money must be spent before accession to strengthen structures in the rural areas and to avoid a rural exodus and mass unemployment. The central eastern-European countries will have problems co-financing SAPARD because they will have to incorporate budget resources which they had set aside for 2000-2001 into their budgets for 2002-2003. Therefore, the Commission must take appropriate measures to ensure that SAPARD funds are not lost because of late implementation. The agricultural sector and the interests of the rural population are important to both the EU and the candidate countries. That is why we need a balanced solution to financing agriculture which does not offload the costs onto the weakest. Therefore, we strongly support the proposals Commissioner Fischler made in January because they are fully compatible with the Berlin Agreements and the roadmap for enlargement. In discussing further reform in the CAP, we must ensure that the accession countries are involved in an advisory capacity as soon as possible. We must have reform before Agenda 2000 runs out in 2006. Reforms, however, cannot be a further hurdle to concluding accession negotiations, just as enlargement should not hold up the reform of the CAP. As a former chairman of the Lithuanian JPC, I must raise the issue of Kaliningrad. I would urge that we find a solution which is deliverable for the Lithuanians and does not drive them into the 'no' camp. Today is not the end of a process. Today is, hopefully, the beginning of the end of a process. We must scrutinise the path forward very closely. We must remember that no other enlargement has been as well-prepared as this one has, but we must seize this moment in history to make progress. I would like to call upon the inspiration of the late, great Elvis Presley at this moment – it is now or never, tomorrow is too late. . – Mr President, I welcome this resolution which aims to promote core labour standards. The trend towards greater economic interdependence and globalisation is a reality with which we must all contend. This does not mean, however, that workers' rights and social governance should fall by the way side. Indeed, the call for a more balanced order, whereby social issues are considered on a par with economic concerns, whilst long over due, is most welcome. The call for ratification of the ILO conventions in applicant countries as well as third parties is a desirable concrete means by which to ensure that the ILO is taken seriously. Lastly, I welcome the call for more dialogue and increased issue linkage between the ILO and other international organisations, such as the WTO and the World Bank. These institutions may appear to be mutually exclusive, whereas in fact both "sides" could learn a lot from one another and work more effectively in unison. .I wholeheartedly support this report by my Socialist colleague to tighten the Council's common position on exposing workers to noise. No workers should be exposed to such high levels of noise that they are unable to have a conversation: you only get one pair of ears and to protect them is vital. Moreover, it is better that measures to combat noise pollution and harm are preventative rather than curative and that the onus is placed on collective rather than individual responsibility in this domain. So that this directive is as effective as possible, we should work with existing tools and avoid duplication. Therefore, the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work should be used to its maximum capacity. This will facilitate and promote the exchange of best practice in terms of acceptable noise levels. Moreover, it is logical that this directive must be far-reaching to include those employers and employees who are self-employed, since these make up a significant share of today's workforce. .I wholeheartedly support this report by my Socialist colleague which calls for the establishment of general principles and requirements of food law and for a European Food Authority. Food Safety is of great concern to the majority of the European Union's citizens and it is therefore vital that this Authority will be efficient, democratic and transparent once it is fixed. In such a way, the role proposed for Parliament will ensure that this body will remain under close scrutiny and that it will prove to be as legitimate as possible. Moreover, it is highly desirable that the future location of this Authority should be physically independent from other EU institutions. This will ensure that it remains independent and thus more credible in citizens' eyes. Finally, the call for close cooperation with the relevant bodies is pertinent: when there is a suspected food risk it makes sense that the Authority should capitalise on the knowledge available in other related associations. .– I strongly support this excellent report by Mr Maat which reviews the 1995 directive designed to ensure protection for animals enduring long journeys. The report is balanced and fair in that it recognises the possible negative role initially played by EU legislation: this called for the closure of many small slaughterhouses in the first place and made animal transportation more necessary and prevalent. It also exposes the present lamentable situation whereby the provisions of the 1995 directive are often flouted and where some Member States fail to implement existing legislation. The call for increased protection of animals during transit is both necessary and worthwhile; as the report indicates, this should be legally enforceable whereby those countries who fail to comply with the rules will be charged a fine. This would act as a real and concrete disincentive for flouting the law. In addition to the call for increased and harder legislation in this domain, practical measures are suggested, such as promoting the opening of small-scale abattoirs. Lastly, this report calls for these tougher measures to be also applicable to third party countries. This is both a positive and substantive move since EU Member States import livestock from outside the EU's borders and it would be counter-productive to have these enhanced rules operating exclusively in the EU without any regard for the unfair practices that operate outside its borders. – Mr President, when we look at relations with the United States, we have to ask ourselves whether or not the United States is prepared to adhere to multilateral agreements. We have seen what has happened in relation to Kyoto; we saw the attempt to sabotage the UN Conference on the proliferation of small arms and we now see the Farm Bill, which threatens to exceed the limits set out in the WTO in terms of subsidies for farmers. What is worrying about this is that in the Doha agreement both the EU and the United States promised the smaller countries that they would have access to our textile and agricultural markets. Now the US seems to be going back on that, just as it has done with textiles in relation to the Caribbean countries. The real danger is not only the message the Farm Bill sends out to the poorer countries, but that it will also encourage those Members of the EU who are opposed to our own farm reform. We have made enormous progress in CAP reform, but a lot more is needed. I would hope that the actions by the United States in pursuit of "pork barrel" politics, because of the elections in November, are not going to encourage those Members of the EU who are opposed to further reform. Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group I would like to congratulate the Irish presidency on the way it has conducted business. It has been a delight to work with Minister Roche in particular. The Irish presidency has set a model of transparency and cooperation within the Parliament. Today – which has been very much a day of celebration – it is important to remember just how far we have come in the European Union in a very short period of time. I remember visiting Lithuania a few weeks after independence. It was then a country with huge energy shortages, tremendous dislocation, Soviet troops still on its soil and tremendous insecurity. It is hard to imagine that, in the short period of 15 years, Lithuania has managed to join the EU. This is a sign of what the EU can achieve when we are determined to set off down a particular road and not let obstacles hinder us. It is often said that this is a historic enlargement – it is indeed. If I can return again to Lithuania, one of the most spectacular events in my life was a visit to the KGB Museum in Vilnius where my blood ran cold. This enlargement shows that the Cold War is finally at an end and we should remember that in those revolutions of 1989 and 1990, a number of people died to have the freedom to join organisations like the EU. We should remember their sacrifice. When we finish celebrating, we ought to realise that all we have done is reach the end of the beginning of the EU. We now finally have a European Union which is Europe-wide. It is not complete – and I disagree with Mr Elles, we  be moving forward in relation to Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey – but it is a Europe-wide EU. We must now make this EU work for the benefit of its citizens. The hard part really begins today. In order to do that, we must start by getting away from endless discussions about processes and start talking about outcomes and policies. That is why it is important to agree on a Constitution and then move on and look at how we benefit EU citizens. Our priorities in this enlarged Europe must be to have more and better jobs: not to talk, but to . It is worth noting that the ten new countries have all had to go through a process of being investigated on a yearly basis by the Commission on their progress towards fulfilling the requirements for membership. Perhaps we should apply that same process to the existing 15 Member States, so that instead of promising to do things, people actually do them. That must be our priority. We also have to look at how we develop legislation which can be properly implemented. We need to move our focus away from simply developing legislation to looking at how it is implemented and where it is achieving the objectives that we set out. We must also have more and better security. Enlargement has to deliver a safer Europe for our citizens, a Europe safe from criminals, drug runners, terrorists and people traffickers. That is what the citizens are going to look for in our enlarged Europe. Part of that security agenda must be that we do not become Eurocentric. This enlarged Europe must be for the benefit of the world as a whole. That is why I hope – and I am glad Commissioner Nielson is here – that we see no slackening of our commitments to development policy, no slackening of our commitments to meet the millennium development goals and that we redouble our efforts to develop better relationships with our neighbours. We should bear in mind that in Kaliningrad in particular, we have a perfect example of how we need to proceed. How we succeed in working with Kaliningrad will dictate how we succeed in working with the rest of the world. We should celebrate today, but we should also remember that we must start working hard from now on to make this enlarged Europe work for the benefit of our citizens. – Madam President, first of all I should like to put Mr Posselt right: the first person to ring Chancellor Schröder after his election was the British Prime Minister. Like everybody else I regret the US position, but I have some questions for the Council on the Commission. Firstly, are not agreements within Article 98 point 2 consistent entirely with the letter and spirit of the ICC Statute? Accordingly, if they are part of it, surely they cannot be said to undermine it? Secondly, as many countries told the US that rather than reject the ICC outright it should go along the Article 98 point 2 road, is it not difficult to criticise them for doing so? Thirdly, does not the US draft agreement state clearly that the parties expressed their intention to investigate and prosecute war crimes and, therefore, achieves the objective we wish to see? Can we not therefore build on that position rather than try to take extreme positions in this particular debate? . – Madam President, for the Committee on Foreign Affairs there are two key issues in this discharge: transparency and implementation. On transparency, I had an interesting time when I asked Parliament's officials if they could let me have a list of what the Commission had done on the 2000 budget in relation to those items to which Parliament had adopted amendments to the budget, in terms of both amounts of money and also remarks. I was told that, even if it were possible, it would take several months to find this information. That is totally ridiculous because, if Parliament adopts amendments to the budget, it is elementary that there should be a mechanism to follow up on those amendments to know exactly what has happened. The fault lies in part with Parliament, because we do not scrutinise and follow up the budget as we should. I do not blame the Committee on Budgetary Control but the individual committees which do not often take that responsibility. The fault also lies with the Commission because we need greater clarity of information in order to analyse budget implementation. There should be much better dialogue between Parliament and the Commission to identify very clearly what action has been taken on European Parliament priorities. I suspect the Commission far too often simply ignores what Parliament amends in the budget. We need to be able to indicate that. On the common foreign and security policy, we need greater clarity: we are not clear on who does what. That is why I support the idea of an interinstitutional agreement setting out exactly the Commission's role in the CFSP. On implementation, there was for the 2000 budget again a very high concentration of commitments at the end of the year for Latin America, Asia and so on. The imbalance between commitments and payments continues to give cause for concern, as indeed do the remarks of the Court of the Auditors in relation to the TACIS programme. I recognise the improvements the Commission has made – in particular the use of the website to provide information – but we have to focus on transparency and implementation. – Mr President, Commissioner Patten challenged us to justify to our electorate a demand for an increase in defence expenditure. He is right to suggest that it would not be very popular. However, what we can have is much more efficient and effective defence expenditure. In Kosovo we learned that while we spend 60% of what the Americans spend, we only get 10% of their power projection. I, as a taxpayer, would like to know what are we spending our money on in that case. The answer to that is: waste, inefficiency and duplication, and that is the issue we have to address. It is the Commission's job to drive that forward. In the 1996 and 1997 communications the Commission seemed to be willing to do that. But where the Santer Commission was prepared to go where angels feared to tread, this Commission has been cowering behind its barricades, frightened to take on the Member States on this issue and, in so doing, failing in its responsibilities to defend the Treaties. Could Commissioner Liikanen confirm for me that the Court of Justice decisions C-70/94 and C-83/94 give the Commission the power to challenge Member States on their interpretation of Article 296, which they have taken as a carte blanche, which is not what the Treaty of Rome intends? We want the Commission to move forward. I welcome what Commissioner Liikanen has said, but I want to see more rapid progress. We cannot send our troops into action unless we have the capability to support them. As George Robertson has said, being ready for battle is like pregnancy: you either are or you are not! You cannot proceed on the basis, as the Spanish Defence Minister has said, that we are addressing a third of our capability requirements. Why only a third? We have to address them all if we are serious about a European defence identity. So I want to see this agenda being driven forward. We need somebody with responsibility. In football terms, we need a Roy Keane to move this agenda forward to ensure that we have the capabilities we need. – I thank the Commissioner for his answer. I am slightly perturbed that it seems to be taking so long to get this matter addressed. As we have just heard, it is not going to be until 11 March that we get further developments. I should like to ask the Commissioner, first, what measures are going to be recommended which will increase ownership by local people on the ground in the Stability Pact. It has been seen as remote and, unless we have proper ownership, quite frankly it will continue to be remote. Secondly, one of the areas of concern has been the quality of implementation in the Stability Pact. Is he happy that we are moving in the right direction in terms of implementation? Thirdly, there is a view that there was a chronic lack of information on the ground about the Stability Pact. Is a strategy being put in place to deal with that? . – Mr President, 11 September showed us that the world we live in is very insecure. We discovered that the world's security, stability and economy are much more fragile than we previously believed. Wherever we look – whether at the fight against terrorism, the horrors of the Balkans, the nightmare of a small town in Switzerland, the virtual anarchy in parts of Africa – one common theme emerges everywhere: the huge number of weapons which are freely available. That is one of the main causes of instability in the world, and we must act before the tidal wave of weaponry overwhelms us all. The Code of Conduct on Arms Exports was a significant development in controlling this trade. It is clear from the second annual report that there is rapidly growing cooperation between Member States, both in terms of implementing the code and of achieving greater mutual understanding of the interpretation of the code. It is also clear that arms export policy in relation to security is becoming more closely aligned. There is much greater transparency in arms controls policies. Most EU States, except for Austria, Greece and Luxembourg, now produce their own annual reports, albeit with a huge variance in the quality of information provided. It is worth noting that the NGOs' Safer World holds up the UK's annual report, first introduced by the then Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, as an example for other countries. The code's influence goes beyond the EU: all the accession countries, the EEA, EFTA States, Canada and Turkey now subscribe to the code's principles. Member States are also seeking to apply those principles in wider international fora. It would be a mistake to underestimate the importance of what has been achieved or the considerable mindshift that is taking place among Member States in this field. Nonetheless, there are areas where the code needs to be strengthened. The principles of the code will be constantly undermined if action is not taken to control and license arms brokers. It is beyond belief that in many countries you need a licence to own a shotgun but not to trade in weapons of any type. Some arms brokers are legitimate businesses; many, however, are little more than merchants of death. Action in this field must be an absolute priority. Similarly, controlling the activities of EU armaments companies will inevitably be compromised by the uncontrolled licensing of production outside the EU. We further need a more harmonised system of end-use data provision, certification and enforcement. Controls of official exports are important, but the illegal trade in arms is our biggest problem. I welcome the work of Member States towards a UN Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons, reminding Parliament that the definition includes things like shoulder-carried, anti-aircraft missiles. I very much regret the attitude of the USA to that conference and the influence of its gun lobby. We can only hope that recent events will cause the USA to reflect on the need for global partnerships to remove the causes of insecurity. We must have a global crackdown on this illegal trade. Greater transparency is the guardian of our security in this field. Despite the rapid advances made, I would like to see all countries producing publicly available annual export reports in a commonly agreed format. The Council's annual report ought to be more detailed, as I have set out in my report. We would naturally encourage greater scrutiny of arms policies by Member State parliaments. I was delighted that last year Member States agreed a Common List of Military Equipment to which the code applies. We now need a common list of non-military security and police equipment, and I am happy to accept the amendments on that subject. The list, however, has to be meaningful and provide the basis of effective action in this field and not be a statement of general intent. We will not win the war on terrorism – which we are all talking about at the moment – unless we control arms, the tools of this deadly trade. That is the challenge confronting us now and it is even more important today than it was this time last year when we debated the first annual report. – Mr President, you did not draw attention to the fact that this month we are celebrating the 30th anniversary of the accession of the United Kingdom, Denmark and Ireland to the European Union. In the case of the United Kingdom, this accession has brought tremendous benefits to the citizens of the United Kingdom, creating jobs through increased trade, bringing in considerable investment, creating jobs, and benefiting our citizens through increased travel opportunities and education and employment. It has also particularly benefited the United Kingdom in relation to the social agenda, in particular the role of women, where the women's cause has been furthered in the United Kingdom, largely due to European legislation. This should therefore be an occasion to celebrate. You mentioned Roy Jenkins in your opening remarks. He, with the late John Smith, was responsible on the Labour side for ensuring that Britain became and remained a member of the European Union. – Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the Danish Presidency for being able to keep hold of the big picture and not allowing the summit to be side-tracked by arcane details and what are relatively small amounts of money. We must never lose sight of the fact that the benefits of enlargement far outweigh the costs. The costs of not enlarging are far greater than the costs of enlarging. You may recall that at a previous debate I took inspiration from the late, great Elvis Presley when he said 'it's now or never'. I would like to take inspiration today from a rather lesser personage, Mr Iain Duncan Smith, who yesterday said to the Conservative Party 'unite or die'. The same principle of course applies to the European Union. I am glad to see the Brussels Summit demonstrate that Europe is more capable of learning that lesson than the British Conservative Party. I recognise the Danish Presidency's enthusiasm for wishing to carve out a road from Copenhagen to Copenhagen, but I want to be clear that Copenhagen is not the end of the process – hopefully it is the beginning of the end of the process. There is still a lot of work to be done by the candidate countries, we still have a ratification process, and this Parliament will take its assent powers very seriously indeed. We will only vote 'yes' if we are clear that a proper deal has been done. So we must not allow the candidate countries to think the process is over. I would like to remind everyone that the Commission will be producing a further progress report six months before the date of accession. I would also like to congratulate the Danish Presidency for establishing an indicative framework for further agricultural spending which in no way prejudices future reform of the CAP, nor future discussions on financing the European Union, nor our international trade commitments in the Doha round. It allows us to move forward but still leaves this discussion open for us to reach a sensible conclusion to that debate. I am also pleased with the wording of the resolution on Bulgaria and Romania. I recently represented the Socialist Group in Romania, and was singularly impressed by the progress that is being made under the current government, which has finally got to grips with some of the issues. I welcome the decision of the Council to increase the safeguard clauses from two years to three years, although I am concerned by the wording which says that these could apply from day one of accession. I assume that relates to the Commission's report six months before the date of accession, but I must say it would not give a good impression to the voters, either in the accession countries or in the European Union, if we start to apply safeguard clauses from day one. Quite frankly, if those are necessary, those countries should probably not be coming into the European Union at that point. Finally, as a former chairman of the Lithuanian JPC, I would remind the Council that Russia is not a Member State of the European Union, it is not a candidate country, it does not have a veto over European Union affairs. Therefore, our number one priority on Kaliningrad is to guarantee the sovereignty of the Lithuanian State and its ability to enter Schengen. I would also like to congratulate the Council on resolving the issues relating to the financing of the closure of Ignalina power station. This shows a remarkable sign of solidarity from the existing Member States towards a small candidate country. – Mr President, I did not receive a clear answer from the Council. Are not Article 98 agreements in line with the spirit and letter of the Rome Treaty? . Madam President, I warmly welcome my colleague Paul Rubig's report which promotes research and innovation and backs a Commission initiative to promote innovation. Time and again the EU has been criticised for failing to keep abreast of technological innovation and is sorely lagging behind its American counterparts in this field. The EU should do more to exploit its potential to innovate in this field and this was recognised, as the report outlines, in the Lisbon, so-called, dot.com Summit. European Member States need to collude and pool their separate specialisms and create a system of 'benchmarking'. To supplement these measures the report rightly calls for more high quality education. This will do much to boost the EU's Lisbon Strategy. Lastly, these innovations cannot progress unless there is a loosening of bureaucratic regulations. If we decrease the amount of red tape which currently hinders European innovation, then we will go some way in becoming more able to compete with America. This will promote more start-ups and new ventures. . I warmly welcome Mr Collins’s report which calls on the European Commission to allocate research funding to study risks to long haul air passengers. In view of current concerns over the health risks on long haul flights, such as deep vein thrombosis, this report comes at a fitting time. The report also goes so far as to recommend additional measures aimed at protecting the rights of all European citizens, such as those with disabilities. I fully support this. In addition, the report’s recommendation to appoint an EU air passenger ombudsman, to whom passengers can complain when encountering problems with airlines, would go some way towards empowering European citizens who have encountered problems with European airlines. Finally, the call for a more simple procedure for logging complaints would simplify and demystify the complaints procedure for European citizens. This would be a victory for ordinary citizens against big business. I fully support this resolution which calls for enhanced co-operation between the EU and China. I believe that the EU has a vital role to play in helping to shape China's economic, social and political agenda. China's accession to the WTO is to be welcomed, but the EU must not become complacent: human rights and the UN conventions that China has ratified are still far from fully respected. I feel that the report shows the right balance between encouragement of China's economic and social reforms, as well as denouncing its perennial abuses of human rights and the rule of law. EU-China relations continue to be hampered by issues such as the oppression of Falun Gong practitioners and the imprisonment monks in Tibet. Therefore it is equally important that the EU shows itself to be tough on these issues and willing to engage with China. – Would I be correct, Commissioner, in summing up your thorough answer in one word, "no", i.e. the Commission is not going to do anything? When I spoke to you some months ago in this very Chamber you said that by autumn we will have made progress. But it seems to me that what you are saying is that the Commission is not going to do anything to follow up its communication or its action plan. What you have said is a summary of what has happened up to now but not an indication that there really is going to be dynamic action in the foreseeable future, as it is autumn now. – Mr President, there is a saying in the United Kingdom that you should not 'spoil the ship for a ha'porth of tar'. I think we would all do well to remember that in the coming weeks. The financial arrangements are going to be difficult to agree and I do not underestimate them, but we must keep a sense of perspective. The money for the candidate countries up to 2006 represents one thousandth of the GDP of the EU and is 10% of what Germany has spent on its own unification. The costs are nothing compared to the economic benefits that will flow from enlargement. The costs are nothing compared to the costs of not enlarging and are nothing compared to the costs of trying to maintain the stability of the continent by other means. The original six Member States would do well to remember why they formed the Community in the first place and the economic benefits that flow from it. Those of us that joined later should remember why we joined and the efforts that other countries made to integrate us successfully into the Union. We should remember the economic benefits that have flowed to us from EU membership. We should all remember that the financial and human effort needed to construct today's Union was the most efficient investment ever made on such a scale by countries of a whole continent. Now is the time to bring that investment up to an entirely new level for the future. I am concerned that this debate seems to be taking it for granted that the ten countries are already in, when they are not. We in Parliament have to give our assent and we will scrutinise the final treaties very closely. It is vital that the candidate countries maintain their efforts to come up to the required standards. We welcome the three-fold safeguards set out by the Commission in the form of economic safeguards, internal market safeguards and justice and home affairs safeguards. But we expect Parliament to be involved if these safeguard clauses are ever invoked. We also welcome the Commission's proposal for a further progress report six months before accession. We must all be prepared, if that report is negative on any particular country, to take the appropriate action. The Socialist Group will also be monitoring the social component of enlargement, because we must make sure that enlargement makes things better for people and not worse. If I could turn to Kaliningrad, Mr Haarder mentioned negotiations with Russia. Could I gently remind Mr Haarder that Russia is not a Member State of the European Union, nor is it a candidate country. I should also remind you that many of the problems in Kaliningrad are of Russia's own making, not least the refusal to allow many countries to set up consulates there. They cannot have a veto on the future of the EU. What we must respect absolutely is Lithuania's sovereignty in this matter. Nor must we try to find solutions with negative historical connotations, such as train corridors. We must also ensure that whatever solution is reached is practical and that we are prepared to give financial and other support to enable Lithuania and Poland to enforce it. The Irish referendum taught us one important lesson. The 'no' vote actually stayed the same, the difference was in the 'yes' vote, and this was the result of the positive engagement by politicians with their people. In preparation for enlargement, we all have a responsibility to engage with our electorates to ensure that they welcome enlargement and recognise the benefits rather than worry about the costs. – Could the Commissioner tell me if what he said adds up to a guarantee that there will be a better balance between commitments and payments in Asia and Latin America and that we will have better utilisation of the funds voted for in the budget? – Mr President, in the course of the last few months I have had the privilege, on a number of occasions, to declare to this Parliament that the Group of the Party of European Socialists strongly supports the accession of 10 new Member States to the EU on 1 May 2004. Over the past few weeks our group has actively supported all the preparatory work to enable the European Parliament to give its assent to the accession treaties with all of the ten future Member States. We sincerely want the official signature of the Accession Treaty to take place on 16 April in Athens. On every occasion I have emphasised the importance of this enlargement process for the further development of the EU and its contribution to the strengthening of democratic structures. It may, therefore, come as something of a surprise to people that today I have to declare that a delay in the final stages of the enlargement process cannot be completely excluded. This is not because we do not want these countries to enter, it is not because we are dissatisfied with the negotiations, and it is most certainly not because we have found some bureaucratic institutional or technical arguments to reconsider our previous commitments to the enlargement process. The European Parliament's rights of decision on the budget, including the long-term financial perspectives, are among its most fundamental rights. A limitation of those rights by a sole decision of the European Council must be regarded as a serious attempt to limit the democratic foundations and the democratic functioning of the European Union. The Council's decision to include, as part of the treaties – for the first time ever – the negotiation results in the final aspects of accession must be considered as a serious limitation of Parliament's budget rights. Our colleagues in the future Member States must be aware that this attempt to limit one of Parliament's most fundamental rights is unacceptable, particularly at the moment when the European Convention is considering a further democratisation of European institutions. We consider it as a joint objective. For those who are already Members, as well as for those who soon will become Members, Parliament's rights will be strengthened as a result of the enlargement process and not weakened. Not only do we care about Parliament having those rights, but we believe Parliament should be able to use those rights. That is why we believe that the financial framework resulting from the negotiations must be considered as a minimum amount, not a maximum amount. Our group does not want to block enlargement. We do not want to delay enlargement. We have a joint objective to make a success of this process. Strengthening, not weakening the European Parliament's rights must be part of that success. We are convinced that the future MEPs from the new Member States will support our demands. I am sure that the Council will find a solution to this unnecessary conflict, but it must fully respect Parliament's budget rights so that we can ensure that the final stage in the enlargement process will proceed without any delays. .I welcome this third annual report by the Governor of the European Central Bank, Mr Duisenberg. I regret, however, that the ECB does not follow the high standards of transparency, accountability and openness set by the Bank of England. The Bank of England was granted operational independence in May 1997 in one of the first acts of the incoming Labour Government. Minutes of meetings of its Monetary Policy Committee, including voting records and reasoning, are now published after about 6 weeks. This boosts market confidence in its decisions and is a great example of open government. It can surely be no coincidence that, since the Labour Government’s brave decision in May 1997, Britain has enjoyed an unprecedented period of economic stability. It can also be no coincidence that the Labour Government’s decision was criticised at the time by the boom-and-bust Tories, who have an outstanding record on economic instability and incompetence. The ECB will not have the full confidence of the market until it becomes more open. Mr Duisenberg will surely face a challenge second to none with the introduction of euro banknotes on 1 January 2002. I welcome the ECB’s decision to distribute euro coins to consumers and larger banknotes to business beforehand. However, I am concerned that shoppers and small and medium-sized enterprises will not have smaller notes in their hands until "e-day" itself. This may well give rise to endless chaos and confusion which should be avoided at all costs. The practical changeover to the euro on 1 January 2002 will clearly be a litmus test for the ECB and I very much hope that it will rise to the challenge. I would very much like to see the ECB follow a policy of openness and transparency similar to the Bank of England. It would be perverse for Britain to go from a position of transparency to one of relative secrecy. Therefore, if Britain is ever going to embrace the euro, the ECB must be seen also to embrace greater openness. – Mr President, I congratulate Mr Brok on his comprehensive report, and I agree with him that we have made enormous progress in terms of foreign and security policy. Almost every time I open a newspaper, I see the names Patten and Solana in connection with some new trouble spot in the world. He is right to say that we have responded to the current crisis with a coherence and unity that we would not have thought possible only four or five years ago. He is right to say that the coalition against terror would not have been possible without the progress we have made within the EU to bring about that unity and coherence. Clearly a lot still needs to be done, and we have to take advantage of the current crisis to perhaps change the emphasis in our work. We spend something like 60% of what the Americans spend on defence, but we spend 400% of what the Americans spend on what might be called ‘soft intervention’ – humanitarian aid and assistance. We need to try to change that emphasis. The Americans need to learn from this crisis that security is not just a matter of power projection. You can have all the weapons in the world, but you will be unable to defend yourself against a few people armed with box cutters. We need to have a multinational approach to the global problems. For our part we have to realise that we must have greater military capability in order to back up our actions. That is why the capability process currently under way is so important. We must put some teeth into our common foreign and security policy. That is why I am disappointed with the news that Italy is likely to pull out of the project for A400M aircraft. We need strategic lift. It is often ironic that the countries that most engage in rhetoric about European cooperation are those that often fail to produce the action. One final observation is that at the moment we are seeing a warming of relations with Iran and Syria. I should like to remind colleagues that there are a number of Israeli soldiers and civilians held hostage by forces sympathetic to, or controlled by, Iran and Syria. These people are missing in action and I would hope the Commission and the Council would use this opportunity to get those hostages restored to their families. – Mr President, I welcome the fact that at long last we have resolved this issue of the European Company Statute. It is logical that if we have a single market there should be a single system of company registration, which ought to make registration simpler and reduce red tape. In the defence industries in the last few years we have had considerable cross-border cooperation and consolidation but we have not helped those companies because we have not provided them with a single company structure. Hopefully this will now do that. We also have to bear in mind that there are other issues that have to be addressed, such as the manner in which companies are taxed and the way that is approached. And if we are really to encourage transnational consolidation, we have to look at the question of how pension funds are dealt with so that people are able to take their pensions with them when working within a single company structure. – Madam President, as draftsman for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, I am broadly happy with the position the Committee on Budgets has taken on our amendments. I should like to thank Mr Färm for his help and support. I am particularly glad that we have maintained my amendments on the security of our EU delegations. I believe that is of tremendous importance. I am also glad that we have managed to restore the cuts on the human rights and democracy line. I understand the strategy of the rapporteur in relation to Afghanistan. I would just like to make sure it is clear that nothing is going to undermine our commitment to reconstruction in Afghanistan. I am disappointed, however, that my amendment on landmines was not accepted – the EUR 3.15 million – because that would take us up to the amount to which we had originally committed ourselves. The line on landmines was very much a European Parliament measure. I would hope that we can, in our voting, consider restoring that figure because it would take us up to what we originally proposed. I am disappointed at the amendments whereby EUR 15 million for Palestine is put on reserve under some interesting conditions. I would hope that we could put all the money for Palestine above the line. – Madam President, Winston Churchill once spoke of an iron curtain coming down over Europe. Today we can safely say that the iron curtain has not only been lifted but has been dismantled, packed up in its box and consigned to the attic of history where it will serve to remind us of the horrors of the past. We have a lot to celebrate today. Copenhagen reunited Europe 13 years after the Berlin Wall came down and 21 years to the day after martial law was imposed in Poland and already these things feel as if they belong to a different age. I congratulate the Danish presidency and the Commission on bringing to a successful conclusion ten sets of parallel and very diverse negotiations, bearing in mind that only a couple of weeks ago, it seemed as if we would not do it. I think it is impossible to under-estimate the importance of what has been achieved in Copenhagen. However, at the risk of being accused of putting a dampener on our celebrations, I must point out that we are not there yet. There is still a lot to be done. The candidate countries still have to meet our standards and they must not be allowed to slacken their efforts. The Commission still has to draw up its final report on the candidate countries, and we must ensure that the process does not degenerate into a messy argument about the imposition of safeguards. We still have to get the process ratified by parliaments, including, in particular, by the European Parliament. We will scrutinise the treaties with care and attention to detail and no one should take Parliament's vote for granted. We still have to sell enlargement to the people, both in the EU and in the candidate countries. We cannot take the people's assent for granted. Notwithstanding Mr Rovsing's remarks just now, we must still make the Kaliningrad solution work, and work in a way which does not undermine the sovereignty of Lithuania. We must still ensure that the financial arrangements actually work and we must also ensure that Parliament's role in those financial arrangements is fully respected. We still have to reform our common agricultural policy before it bankrupts us financially and politically. We still have to decide how an EU of 25 or more can work, because failure to reform our decision-making process will guarantee that this enlargement is the breaking and not the making of the European Union. A lot has been done, but there is still a lot to do. We must not lessen our efforts towards Bulgaria and Romania, nor must they assume that 2007 is a guaranteed date of accession. I welcome the decision taken concerning Turkey – although I would have preferred the date of 1 May 2004 – but this must become a defining moment in our relations with Turkey. We guarantee that negotiations will begin if they meet the Copenhagen criteria by December 2004, but equally, we must be clear that, if the criteria are not met, then Turkey's accession will be off the agenda for the foreseeable future. We must stop playing games with each other. I welcome the determination to resolve the Cyprus issue and would point out that, because we have always said that we would not allow third parties to veto our future, this is forcing us finally to reach a settlement in this long-running debate. Prime Minister, I am told by my government that in Copenhagen, you were always well briefed, determined, clever and gave real leadership. If we are to overcome the obstacles ahead – institutional change and the need for political and economic reform – we need such leadership more often and then we can really celebrate. – Mr President, you will recall that when we had our great debate with the accession countries in Strasbourg, I finished my contribution by quoting an English saying that there is many a slip 'twixt cup and lip. I warned that we should not celebrate prematurely the end of this process because there was still a long way to go and of course I was right. It now seems that although we think we are close to agreement, we are actually a long way from agreement and there is a very real prospect that we could lose everything. We should be clear on that. If Copenhagen ends up with endless rows over highly technical issues conducted in ten parallel negotiation sessions, it does not take a brain surgeon to realise the whole process could easily seize up. For once, I disagree with Commissioner Verheugen. I think if we miss Copenhagen, we will not miss it for a week or a month or a couple of months, we will miss enlargement for a whole generation. As I have said before and I will say it again, it is now or never. This is the opportunity we have to seize. I welcome the brave attempt by the Danish presidency to put an extra EUR 1 billion on the table in order to clear the decks so we do not have these complicated negotiations in Copenhagen. Unfortunately, in doing so, particularly a couple of weeks in advance, they seem only to have encouraged some of the applicant States to believe that this is just one more stage in the negotiations and quite frankly we have to be clear that it is not. This is not a constantly elastic process. At some point we must say no. Berlin and Brussels cannot be breached. The moment we break budget discipline, we open a whole Pandora's box which is liable to bring the whole project collapsing to the ground. We also must be clear that this project is so important that we are not prepared to let any one country sabotage the whole negotiations. If any one country wants to hold out until the last possible moment, they do so at their own risk and not at the risk of all the other accession countries, because we must be prepared to agree as each country is prepared to agree. Equally, I must urge our leaders to ask themselves a simple question before they go to Copenhagen. What will they do in 20 years' time when they are sitting with their grandchildren on their knees and their grandchildren say: ‘What was your real role in the great disaster when Europe failed to grasp its own destiny? What did you actually do?’ Are they really going to turn around and say: ‘Well, actually, we could not do it because we were not sure if Baltic sprats were big enough for our nets. We could not do it because we could not quite agree on the right amount of sheep premium or the exact sugar quota or exactly what sort of portfolio a Commissioner should have for two months’? Are we really going to say that? Because it is going to sound very lame. Let us think of the big picture and remember that the money we are giving to the accession countries represents one thousandth of the GDP of the European Union. The entire EU budget is only two thirds of what the British Government spends on social security alone. We are actually talking about what are minor issues in the global picture of things. Let us not lose sight of that. Concerning Turkey, I would say that we must say to this new government, which is like a breath of fresh air in my opinion: you must meet the Copenhagen criteria. We want you to meet it by such and such a date and if you do we will open negotiations. But let us kill off once and for all this idea that Europe is a Christian project only. I represent Hindus, Muslims, Jews, Sikhs, Buddhists, Taoists, all religions, and I am not prepared to say to them: ‘The European Union is not for you’. This is the message some people in this chamber are giving out and we must kill that off. . – Mr President, the Committee on Industry in general welcomes the Commission's communication because the EPAs between the EU and different regions could reinforce economic cooperation between ACP countries and encourage their economic development. Therefore, we particularly welcome the Commission's proposal that treatment granted to the EU be extended to all ACP-EPA partners before trade liberalisation with the EU. This is particularly important. It is not going to be easy, and some of the reasons for that have been outlined. We have to proceed with caution and with flexibility. We must not put pressure on ACP countries to enter into negotiations they do not feel to be appropriate, and we must safeguard and respect the rights of LDCs to non-reciprocal trade preferences. We need, however, in particular, to encourage technical assistance to achieve institution building, which will allow balanced results. We need to ensure that we take into account the capacity constraints of the ACP countries and seek to build those as part of the process. We need to bear in mind that the abolition of tariffs could well cause a loss of public resources and, therefore, create budgetary problems. We must not lose sight of our objective in relation to the Cotonou Agreement of poverty eradication and sustainable development. Thus the Committee on Industry's position is very much to support the Commission's point of view and welcomes the fact that negotiations are going to start tomorrow but to ask that we proceed with sensitivity and caution. . – Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy and Transport and Tourism I would like to endorse warmly the approach adopted by the general rapporteur, Mr Bourlanges. In particular I would like to thank him for the attention he has paid to liaising with my committee over recent months and our predecessors in the past year. My committee has advanced five budget priorities: Objective 1, 2, Interreg, transport safety and sustainable mobility. I will deal with the regional policy priorities first. I agree with the general rapporteur’s comment that the cuts to Structural Fund appropriations are completely unacceptable. So what are the cuts proposed by the Council? The Council is proposing that the payment appropriations are cut by EUR 433 million for Objective 1, EUR 95 million for Objective 2 and EUR 33 million for Interreg. This Parliament enthusiastically endorsed the Agenda 2000 Structural Fund programme. We expect the new Structural Fund programmes to be launched in the coming year with a flying start. This simply will not be possible if these cuts proceed. The Council is advocating a reduction in advance payments to new programmes to just 3.5%. In contrast, this Parliament has previously considered that advance payments at the time of first commitment should be in excess of 10% of total funds. In our view, if these cuts proceed regional regeneration will be put at risk. Existing programmes will stall before they are transformed into new programmes. Momentum will be lost. Inevitably the poorest communities in the poorest regions will suffer the most. The bottom line is that new jobs will not be created and existing jobs will be put at risk. My committee has proposed 100% restoration of these three budget lines to the level of the provisional draft budget. This EUR 561 million increase in Structural Fund appropriations will allow us to honour properly historic commitments and ensure the new Agenda 2000 programmes hit the ground running. We also endorse, incidentally, the proposed 20% entry into reserve pending the successful outcome of our discussions over the guidelines. I will now turn briefly if I may to transport and just say to members that I hope they are able to support the Committee on Budgets’ moves to restore the cuts to the transport safety line and the cuts to the line on sustainable mobility. I would like to conclude by thanking all my colleagues on the committee for the support they have given me through this budget process. – Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for her continuing commitment in the field of maritime safety. I should like her to answer two points. Firstly, how will she persuade the Council to adopt her proposal on black-box voyage-data recorders? We are trying to do that now on the Erika I package. We obviously would welcome her support on that issue, but we want to know how she will persuade these Member States to do what up until now they appear to be unwilling to do. Secondly, there is nothing in her package to tackle the problem of the blacklisted flag states, states sadly that include Cyprus and Malta, where 50, 60, 70, 80% of ships have defects. What measures does she propose to tackle these blacklisted rogue flag states that continue to flout international maritime law? – I should like to thank Mr Cushnahan for raising this issue in the House today. My supplementary question to the Commissioner is: given recent maritime disasters off the Spanish coast, and indeed in the English Channel, does she agree with me that it is only a matter of time before a passenger ferry and a rogue oil tanker collide, with devastating environmental and indeed human consequences? Is it not time to ban all flag-of-convenience ships once and for all, not just from EU ports but from EU waters as well? – Madam President, I concur with my colleague, Mr Ford, that of course if we only sat in Brussels, we would not be here debating this building. That underlines the problem that we are confronted with the enormous task of managing two buildings across the European Union. Nonetheless that is the task that the Council has decided that we must undertake. I would, therefore, like to thank the services, Mr Priestley in particular, and all his staff for the strenuous efforts they have undertaken to make this building work. This week this building has worked. While there have been problems, our parliamentary business has not been hindered by the defects and this is thanks to the efforts of Mr Priestley and others. There are significant design defects, particularly in relation to access. It is not an architecturally welcoming building particularly to people with disabilities. That is going to be a real challenge for us all to overcome. On the whole, a lot of the resistance is due to the fact that people just do not like change. They do not like unfamiliar surroundings. In my view, it is not appropriate to discuss our own internal business at a full parliamentary session here in the European Parliament. We need to find, perhaps, a less formal form of ongoing dialogue with you and Mr Priestley and his services to discuss the issues of accessibility and other issues relating to the internal organisation of this Parliament. This session is an illustration that the dialogue between ordinary Members and the administration is perhaps not working as effectively as it could be. In conclusion, putting all this in perspective, yes we have problems as Members. Our staff have problems too, but this is nothing compared to the problems faced by those we represent. I hope we all bear that point in mind. – Mr President, I begin by paying tribute to the Council and the Commission for the efforts they have both made to reach an agreement on a text which I believe will significantly improve maritime safety. But the question that has yet to be satisfactorily answered is why did the  have to break up for the glaring deficiencies in maritime safety to become apparent? Indeed we only need to look at statistics produced by the Paris MOU organisation to see the appalling state of too many of the world's ships. These statistics were available long before the  and continue to show that standards are actually deteriorating. As rapporteur, I maintain my position that the package will help to improve maritime safety but I am afraid will not prevent another . I do not make that point lightly. It will only, as an amendment to an existing directive, be effective if the Member States concerned are willing to implement it effectively. If you look at the existing controls, several Member States simply fail to fulfil their legal responsibilities. I am very pleased that the Commissioner has taken swift and decisive action to try to ensure that this is no longer the case. I welcome the joint determination on the part of the institutions to toughen these measures. In particular, I recommend that we support the proposals to focus our checks on the black-listed flag states and introduce a ‘three strikes and you're out’ rule whereby a ship detained for the third time within a specific period will be banned from Europe's ports. I regret the lack of progress on the issue of the voyage data recorder, the ‘black box’. We believe, as a Parliament – and we have said this many times in the past – that this is essential for both environmental and safety reasons. We are pleased that the Commission favours, in principle, a ‘black box’ being fitted to all ships. We are pleased that the Council has made a political commitment to this effect. But what we need is not a political commitment but a legally binding commitment to ensure that these are introduced to old ships and new within five years. The case for fitting VDRs has been made very often. Indeed the IMO itself has agreed in principle that they should be fitted. Vessels fitted with voyage data recorders have a better safety awareness and a better safety record. In other words, it is not just useful after the event but contributes – in my view – to a change of the safety culture for every ship to be fitted with a ‘black box’ voyage data recorder. According to the UK Marine Accident Investigation Branch, the reluctance to accept the value of data recorders and take positive measures to fit them in merchant vessels is "a contributory factor to the poor safety record of some ships sailing today". A ship fitted with a ‘black box’ is a safer ship. I know that the Commissioner and the Commission have worked hard to try to seek a compromise in this very difficult and complex area. I would welcome tonight a report back on progress with regard to reaching a satisfactory compromise on the particular issue of the ‘black box’. The public simply will not understand why, after so many tragic events at sea – the , the the , the  and many others – we cannot just get on and fit ‘black box’ voyage data recorders. Finally, I thank my Parliamentary colleagues for the assistance they have given me over the past few months in preparing this report. I say that to colleagues from all political parties, from all Member States. I also look to them for continued support through the codecision process. This, I believe, will be the first time in the field of maritime safety that we as an institution will be using the new powers granted to us by the Amsterdam Treaty. Let us use them so that we can look in the eye the families that have lost loved ones at sea and say to them that we will not compromise on safety. – Mr President, my name was mentioned. It is important for the record to clarify the situation in the UK relating to the UK Government's view on blood alcohol. I am sure that the DG on Transport and Energy has a copy of the UK's road safety strategy that was published in March 2000. It makes it very clear that the new government in the United Kingdom is committed to a solution within a European context. I believe you would now find a much more positive response to a proposal for a directive than perhaps was the case with the previous administration. . – Mr President, I should like to begin, perhaps unusually for me, by thanking the various people who have made this evening possible, in particular the Commissioner and all her staff within the maritime unit of her DG, and the maritime safety unit in particular. Also the Council, who are not represented this evening, but it should go on record how helpful the Belgian Presidency has been. I should also like to say how helpful the French presidency was in making sure that we made rapid progress. I should also like to thank my colleagues in the European Parliament who stood together through this process, with the difficult challenges we faced, but which we overcame together. Because of that we are able tonight to celebrate a historic victory for the European institutions in the field of maritime safety. Together we have achieved a great deal. I will not dwell on the other reports. My fellow rapporteurs will do that. I should like to focus on my report on port state control, which is an essential part of our regime to make sure that events such as that involving the Erika never happen again. Two years ago today the Erika was a symptom of a failed system of maritime safety. It was not the first of its kind, nor, sadly, was it the last maritime disaster of its kind. It symbolised to me and my colleagues in the European Parliament the fact that the flag state controls had failed. The classification society controls had failed. The port state controls had failed and the IMO itself had failed. It is only because of the collective action of the European Union and its institutions that we have stimulated in the last two years unparalleled levels of activity in the field of maritime safety. Without the European Union, we would not be as advanced today as we are. We should all be very pleased that we have the European Union to spearhead action in this area. What do we have to be so pleased and proud about? I want to list some of the achievements that we have secured in respect of port state control. Firstly, there is going to be mandatory inspection for certain ships. That is an innovation and I welcome it. It means that the most dangerous ships will be inspected in future. Secondly, enhanced inspection for other categories of ships and, thirdly, the guidelines on inspections themselves will become mandatory. In other words port state control authorities will have to inspect certain types of ships in certain ways. Fourthly, we want the Member States that have been a weak link in the system to train and recruit adequate numbers of port state control inspectors. They will have until 2003 to do that, but it is a challenge for them and it is a challenge, I hope, that they can rise to. Fifthly – and this is absolutely critical to the success of this new regime – we want public access to the information. Again that is in the amended directive and will be made available via the Equasis database. Sixthly, we want the Member States and the port state control authorities in particular, to convey the information to the Commission so that the Commission can do its job in making sure the amended directive is uniformly implemented across the European Union. The seventh point, which I mention with a certain pleasure, concerns the ability to ban and detain certain ships – banning the most dangerous ships, particularly those that fly the flags of blacklisted flag states. I welcome the strong controls we have to ban certain ships from European Union waters if they have a poor detention record. That effectively will be a warning shot across the bows of these blacklisted flag states: over a period of time their ships will be banned one by one if they do not improve. A very important message will be going out from this Parliament. But also there will be the power to detain, in particular the power to detain ships which, by 2008, do not have a fully functioning voice data recorder, a black box. Again the message can go out tonight that by 2008 all categories of ships, if they want to come to a European port, must have a black box voice data recorder. If they do not have one, we will detain the ship until one is secured. Once more, I welcome the fact that we have all worked together to secure that particular achievement. The black box will change the culture of shipping. It will not just be a tool whereby we can learn lessons from disasters and apply them in the future. A ship with a black box is a safe ship. Our common aim tonight is to make sure the Erika and disasters like it never occur again. I do not believe that we will achieve that simply by adopting these reports tomorrow but we will have gone a long way to securing our goal to protect lives at sea and to protect the marine environment. But we must remain vigilant. Our duty now must be to make sure that the laws we pass tomorrow are implemented by everyone – the Commission, Member States and port state control authorities. That is our duty and responsibility. I hope we can live up to that. – Mr President, I should also like to thank the rapporteurs for their work and remind colleagues that the real issues, the three guiding principles against which we should test these proposals, must be safety, environmental sustainability and consumer rights. The current systems of air traffic control in Europe are living on borrowed time and the tragic events this summer only go to prove that. Mrs Maes is absolutely right that in 20 to 30 years we could well be witnessing a major aviation tragedy every week unless we take action now. The Single European Sky and the proposals for checks on non-EU aircraft are important contributions to making our skies safer. But we must also take account of the environment, particularly in this week of the Johannesburg Earth Summit. Every day millions of litres of fuel are wasted and unnecessary emissions are produced because of aviation delays and aircraft in transit across Europe's skies. A Single Sky will be a major contribution to reducing pollution, emissions and wasted fossil fuel. Finally, let us not forget consumer rights. One in three flights in Europe is delayed. The human cost is incalculable: thousands of family holidays were ruined this summer with people kept waiting in hot and antiquated airports. Business is disrupted and delayed. I hope that this proposal will be widely supported. I am pleased that the Commissioner is ambitious enough to say that we must see a significant breakthrough in 2004. Like Mr Fava, I remain optimistic that we will meet that deadline. It is just a pity that the Council is not here to respond to our concerns and our calls for immediate action, because the Commissioner has done her work. We have done ours. Now it is up to the Council. . – Madam President, in a few days time Europe will mark the first anniversary of the loss of the oil tanker, . Since then, sadly, there have been many other disasters at sea, we know only too well. Before the  sank, many other ships sank as well, with the loss of oil, other cargoes, or tragically, the loss of lives of crew or passengers. The lesson for this Parliament this morning must be that we have to conclude that maritime laws throughout the world are in a state of shambles and we have to begin the process of putting them right. In that context, I wish to pay tribute to the Commission for bringing forward this ‘Erika’ package to try and right some of those wrongs, to try and prevent another  occurring. We also pay tribute to the French Presidency, in particular the minister, for his determination to ensure that, in a very brief period of time, we truly learn the lessons of the  and make sure that they are applied to prevent an -type disaster occurring again. Without the minister’s determination, without the determination of the French Presidency, the IMO's working committee would not have agreed with us that single-hull tankers should be phased out rapidly throughout the world. So I pay particular tribute to them for that achievement, which I hope is confirmed by the full IMO assembly very soon. The main problem throughout the world is not the lack of maritime laws but the lack of the willingness of countries throughout the world to enforce them. For example, I am afraid that the whole history of port state control is the lack of willingness of Member States within the European Union and beyond to implement port state control adequately. That is why we welcome the amendment to the directive because it gives us the ability to make sure people implement the port state control Directive effectively. However, in my view as rapporteur, the proposal from the Commission simply does not go far enough. It is not strong enough. In our view, if implemented, the Commission's proposal would allow another  to occur. That is why this morning we cannot agree with the Commission's proposal but we are putting forward four proposals which we believe will significantly strengthen the proposal and would therefore secure this Parliament's support. Firstly, we agree that there needs to be enhanced compulsory inspections of the most dangerous ships. We all agree on that, but we have to find the methodology by which that particular priority can be implemented, and we have yet to secure an agreement between the three institutions on that. I think it is within sight but we need to be sure that this agreement will be enforced. Secondly, we make a demand again this morning for 'black box' style voyage data recorders to be fitted, not on just some ships or new ships, or in 10 or 20 years time, or whenever the IMO eventually agrees. We want black boxes in all ships as soon as possible. That is a very clear, fundamental demand, which we are not willing to compromise on. Thirdly, we support, and there is a great amount of support, that a dangerous ship should not simply be detained and then allowed to return to sea. If you are detained three times in a period of 24 months or 36 months, then you should be banned for life – three strikes and you are out. There must be a clear signal to sub-standard ships that we will not tolerate them in European waters or in European ports. Finally, we have a clear message to the flags of convenience, the black-listed states. Countries like the Lebanon, Liberia, Syria, Azerbaijan, Albania, whose fleets we all know in our hearts are unacceptable overall. Seventy, eighty, ninety per cent of their ships have serious defects. We cannot tolerate a situation where these rogue flag states continue to allow their ships to sail the seven seas. We must as a Parliament express our clear view that in a matter of years we simply will not allow them in. Again I hope that we can find a compromise between the three institutions to secure the objectives which I know we all share. We must eliminate dangerous ships. We must protect our environment and, ultimately, we must save lives at sea. . British Labour MEPs are strong supporters of the Single European Sky and wish to see it implemented as soon as possible, to eliminate air traffic control delays, reduce emissions from waiting aircraft and enhance safety. However, a number of amendments seek to reopen the issue of the coordination between civil and military airspace. In particular Amendments Nos 2, 6, 16 and 18 in the Fava report and Amendments Nos 3, 21, 23, 29, 30 and 32 in the Sanders-ten Holte report. We cannot support these amendments because they undermine the compromise reached in Council to develop a Flexible Use of Airspace concept. We welcome FUA as a major step forward. Allowing civil use of military airspace when not in use. It would be a pity if, by reopening this issue, we delay achieving the one thing we all agree on: the early realisation of a Single European Sky. Mr President, the British Labour MEPs fully support the polluter pays principle and, with this in mind, believe that the cost of motoring in general should better reflect the real costs to society and, in particular, the environment. This can be best achieved by the introduction, where appropriate and where there is local support, of charging schemes. Congestion charging plays a key role in combating congestion, pollution and global warming. The successful and popular Central London charging scheme is an example of this new approach and represents the most ambitious urban road pricing scheme in Europe. Other towns and cities in the UK are pursuing similar initiatives. For lorries, Labour in the UK advocates the introduction of a lorry user charge, which is to be introduced in 2006 and, incidentally, is strongly supported by the main haulage-trade associations. Therefore, whilst we fully support the principle of interoperability of toll systems, it is essential that these pioneering British initiatives are not in any way prejudiced. We therefore support EU action to agree minimum technical standards to permit interoperability of tolling technology, so as to avoid vehicle owners having to install a number of separate units, with obvious consequences regarding cost and inconvenience. However, it would be wrong to prescribe the type of technology. We therefore welcome the Sommer report and would like to thank the rapporteur for her work, which fully addresses these concerns, seeking compatibility rather than rigidly prescribing the type of technology, which should rightly be left to the market or, under the principle of subsidiarity, to Member States. One area where there could be clarification is the role of regional and local authorities, and we urge Members to support Amendment No 45, which makes it clear that is the appropriate level for decision-making in some cases. We also advocate support for Amendment No 44, which seeks to clarify that onboard equipment is not compulsory. Finally, let us all make it clear that if we adopt this report tomorrow we are not forcing  Member State or local authority to charge motorists or hauliers. We are reasonably and sensibly seeking to ensure compatibility between schemes. – Mr President, we are taking action as a Parliament, as a European Union, to make our seas safer because of tragic events like the loss of the , the ,  and, most recently, . We are putting in place a series of measures to ensure events like that can never happen again. We save lives and we protect the marine environment. I therefore applaud the Commission and the Commissioner for her commitment to improving the safety of our seas and the Council for its willingness to codecide with Parliament. In particular I pay tribute to the rapporteur for his determination both to strengthen and clarify an already good proposal. The three key elements are monitoring and information, transponders on every ship and monitoring by every maritime authority, an essential component of our package of measures – the Erika package. This will ensure that there is no hiding place for substandard ships, that all ships will be watched and monitored and that they will not escape compliance with their international obligations. That is our message to substandard ships and the flags of convenience. Secondly, the proposal dovetails with my own report on port State control. In particular the black box voyage-data recorder. As the rapporteur has said, this will enable us not just to learn from lessons but prevent problems occurring in the first place. We are giving real help to ships in distress to ensure that they are properly handled in emergency situations, closing a loophole in the safety chain. I, like the rapporteur, want to ensure that this and other Erika measures are complied with. This perhaps is the greatest challenge we face as a Community. We want to ensure all this new legislation, worthy though it is, is complied with not just by the ship operators but also by the Member States themselves who, sadly, over the years, have shown a reluctance to adhere to Community law. I hope that the Erika rapporteurs together can meet the Commissioner soon to help bring forward proposals as to how best Parliament can ensure that Member States comply with their toughened obligations. Finally, I hope our amendments can be accepted in full in order to avoid codecision and to ensure this legislation, which will do so much to make our seas safer, comes on to the statute book at the earliest possible opportunity. – Mr President, every day five million items of solid waste are thrown overboard from ships. This rubbish drifts across the seas and ends up on beaches, severely damaging the environment and marine life. As a result one million birds and a hundred thousand marine mammals and sea turtles are killed each year. The MARPOL Convention aims to prevent pollution from ships but legislation is clearly necessary to ensure the convention is enforced. That is why this directive is so important and why tonight I am pleased to welcome the progress that has been made in Council to reach a common position which will force ships to dispose of their waste at port reception facilities. I also commend the work of the rapporteur, whose commitment reflects the strength of feeling within our committee to tackling this particular problem and a strong desire amongst parliamentarians of all parties to call a halt to this environmentally disastrous practice. I particularly welcome his strong support for the proposal that, in the interests of improving pollution prevention and avoiding distortions of competition, the environmental requirements should apply to all ships irrespective of the flag they fly and adequate waste reception facilities be made available in all ports throughout the Community. An area where British Labour Members take issue with the rapporteur is the way in which the polluter-pays principle is to be applied. The principle is one we strongly support but we believe it can be more effectively enforced if Member States retain the power to establish their own charging systems appropriate to their own circumstances. For example, in the UK the system by which a ship pays the waste collector each time it uses waste facilities, without the port getting involved, works well. It is based on a consensus which has been forged by all the players, including the ports and environmental groups like RSPB and the World Wildlife Fund. However, we share the rapporteur's concern that different charging systems should not lead to greater risk of maritime pollution. That is why we back the Council proposal to strengthen the review clause to ensure the impact of the directive is monitored regularly. . – Mr President, I am grateful to the Commissioner for indicating the support of the Commission, in principle, for both amendments being tabled in plenary today. But I seek clarification on Amendment No 1. Whilst in principle the Commission is saying it supports our demand for "black box" voyage data recorders to be fitted to all ships, can it confirm that relates not just to new ships, but also to existing and old ships? It is an important clarification. I would appreciate a statement from the Commissioner on that particular point. – Mr President, since 7 November the SNCF has suspended all cross-Channel rail freight services because of fears for the safety of its staff at Calais following threats from those seeking to enter the UK illegally. As a result, Channel Tunnel freight services are now in a state of deep crisis. However, we are pleased today that both French MEPs and British Labour MEPs have pushed for a debate, and indeed that the ELDR Group has joined us in calling this debate this afternoon. We need cooperation, not conflict, to resolve this particular problem. No more naming and shaming, no more buck-passing; we need the British government, the French government, the SNCF, Eurotunnel, EWS and others to start working together more effectively. A lot has been done, but there is a lot to do. Added to my list is the European Commission. Articles 28 to 30 of the Treaty and Regulation 2679/98 guarantee the free movement of goods. That means free movement through the Channel Tunnel. I thank the Commissioner for intervening in this particular crisis and for responding positively to requests from myself and others. In the past few days a security fence has been built and we welcome that. But policing is still only between the hours of 9 p.m. and 3 a.m. We hope to be able to persuade our French colleagues of the need for 24-hour policing and adequate police numbers. We need the SNCF to resume services as soon as possible and we need urgent modifications to locomotives to ensure they do not need to stop at Calais purely for technical reasons. These are practical measures that will make a big difference in the short term. We hope you, Commissioner, will continue to act to ensure that this vital link in the single market is restored. . – Could I, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Transport and Tourism, acknowledge the progress that is being made by the Council and in particular by the Committee on Budgets in addressing our concerns. We, as a committee, fully endorse the approach adopted by the Committee on Budgets in all areas but in particular would highlight their efforts to increase the payment appropriations under the structural funds. Secondly, we would highlight their attempt to restore the cuts in the INTERREG programme by some EUR 33 million in the payments, restoring that heading to the budget. Thirdly, we would thank them for their efforts to restore the unacceptable cuts in the transport safety heading; we welcome the progress made there. Fourthly and finally, we welcome progress in restoring the cuts in the environmentally sustainable transport heading. We endorse all their efforts so far and would also add our backing to their insistence that 20% of the payment appropriations go into reserve for the Community INTERREG and URBAN initiatives, pending the satisfactory adoption of the guidelines. You have our full support, Mr Bourlanges, and we hope that Parliament endorses the Committee on Budgets’ proposals in the vote this week. .  Mr President, the maritime sector is an important industry and employer in Europe. 40% of EU trade is already by sea or inland waterway. The vast majority of our trade with the rest of the world is by sea. Those of us who want to encourage the use of this more environmentally-friendly mode of transport welcome any action that encourages trade by sea. It is within this context that I, as your rapporteur, welcome the agreement on maritime transport between the European Community and the People's Republic of China. China is the EU's third largest trading partner outside Europe, which makes the Chinese market particularly important for European shipping interests. The growth of trade with China constitutes both an important boost to employment and an opportunity to further develop the maritime sector to ensure even more trade is by sea. In the past decade relations with China have developed in a positive way, particularly in respect of the maritime sector, with the majority of Member States signing bilateral agreements with the Chinese. The key aim of this proposal is to secure an EU-wide agreement to improve the conditions of maritime cargo transport operations concerning China and the EU. The agreement therefore applies to international maritime cargo transport on logistic services between the ports in China and the Member States and indeed international maritime cargo transport between the ports of the EU. For example, as regards the ports and the use of infrastructure, each contracting party shall ensure non-discriminatory treatment of each other's vessels. The same principle shall apply in relation to fees, charges and customs formalities. The agreement is concluded for a period of five years and shall be tacitly reviewed on an annual basis. The agreement will only act as a substitute for the trade provisions of existing bilateral maritime agreements. I particularly welcome two important features of this agreement. Firstly, if this agreement is less favourable than the existing bilateral arrangements then the more favourable shall prevail. Secondly, I am very pleased that the Commission has indicated informally that it will assist companies that suffer discrimination, informally taking up these matters with the Chinese directly and therefore avoiding the potential of lengthy and costly litigation. I should like to personally thank the Commission for its assistance on that point. However, as the rapporteur, I have some concerns. This agreement with China also applies to vessels flying the flags of third countries but owned or operated by a shipping company of China or a Member State of the EU. In other words, we are potentially giving preferential access to flags of convenience. In the wake of the  and  disasters, we must ask the Commission why the agreement seeks to provide the advantages of unrestricted access and non-discriminatory treatment to European or Chinese ship owners who choose to register their ships in third countries. I also regret the lack of formal consultation with the social partners, which could have addressed some of these concerns and made the agreement all the more effective. Consequently I have tabled an amendment asking for the subsequent reviews – the annual reviews I have already referred to – to take this point into account. The amendment seeks to add a new paragraph 1a to the legislative resolution, which reads: 'Requests that the concerns regarding the recognition of third country flags within the scope of this agreement be evaluated in subsequent renewals.' The amendment does not seek, in any way, to inhibit any of the benefits for those on all sides of this agreement, but merely seeks to review this potential loophole. In conclusion, as rapporteur, I welcome this historic EU maritime agreement with the People's Republic of China. It is a positive step in building ever-closer relations between Europe and China, an important boost for jobs and an important boost for those of us who want to see a renaissance of Europe's maritime trade. – Mr President, for us the problem of implementation should be a shared problem, and I personally cannot accept what Commissioner Barnier has said, when he simply washes his hands of the problems of four or five Member States. The problem is a shared one, the solution is a shared one. The fact that we have EUR 100 billion of outstanding commitments should be a problem for all the Community's institutions. We cannot accept the premise that it is the sole responsibility of those Member States. We certainly want to see action by all the institutions, including the Commission, and this Parliament in particular, as a matter of urgency. Turning to transport, we want to see action quickly here too. In particular, we want to see a reinstatement of the cuts of EUR 1 million proposed by the Commission in overland transport safety. It is absurd to propose to cut accidents on the roads by 50% in 8 years and yet cut the budget in that key area. Thirdly, we want to see a reinstatement of the 20% reduction proposed by the Commission in sustainable mobility. Again we talk a lot about the environment, but the very programmes that will help protect and preserve it will be cut if the Commissioner has his way. Fourth and finally, I agree with the Commission on the need for more transparency. At the moment my committee, which takes its job seriously in trying to scrutinise the budget, simply does not have the facts at its disposal to make a proper quantitative, as well as qualitative assessment, of what is happening to the budgets for transport and the Structural Funds. I hope that after this debate we can work harder to make sure that we can demonstrate to the European taxpayer that value for money is being given. – Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Costa, for his excellent work on what is a very difficult, detailed but important dossier. Congestion, pollution, gridlock, global warming, floods, freak weather. Is it the end of the world? No, it is just rush-hour in my region. The same problems are occurring in regions and Member States across the European Union. We all have the same transport crisis and there may be common solutions to these common problems. We must all accept the fact, for example, that the fastest growing source of global warming gases is the transport sector. Something surely, colleagues, must be done. However, as we all know, everyone wants someone else to do it. That is our challenge. I hope Mr Costa's work, his report and the conclusions we will reach tomorrow will provide a framework within which we can begin to tackle these problems. We must promote better understanding of our common problems and, indeed, find common solutions to them across the European Union, but on the basis of consensus and mutual understanding. Secondly, we must promote an exchange of ideas. Many localities and regions have excellent ideas, and that knowledge and information must be disseminated throughout the European Union. Indeed, that is my third point: Europe has a key role to play here in disseminating best practice as to how best we tackle the transport challenge. Fourthly and finally, in terms of what Europe's contribution can be within the framework of this particular initiative, I hope that governments, local authorities and those implementing taxes and charges can do so within a framework that is developed and integrated at a European level, and do it together. However, I want to say that there is great concern and anxiety about this particular Commission initiative and, indeed, about Mr Costa's report, although I personally feel that many of those concerns were fully addressed in committee where, I know, there was widespread cross-party support for Mr Costa's work. There were concerns, for example, about subsidiarity. But that was more than adequately addressed when we said to the Commission: you have a key role to play in trying to pull this research together. But, clearly, Member States and their role will be fully respected in terms of their rights to determine their own taxation levels. Indeed, the work we have done has already gained and secured widespread support. I can refer to a letter from the organisation that represents the motoring clubs across Europe, including, for example, the AA and RAC, who are broadly sympathetic and supportive of our work, because they know that unless Europe takes a lead on this issue, unless we begin pulling together the best of the ideas from across the European Union, then the cities, towns and rural areas, will continue to suffer from unacceptable levels of congestion and pollution. I commend Mr Costa's report, his work and, above all, his ability to bring us all together in a single common objective of trying to tackle the transport crisis. – Mr President, I would also like to support the rapporteur, in particular his recommendation to the House that we endorse the common position on the establishment of the Maritime Safety Agency, albeit with the important provisos so clearly stated. I would like to thank the rapporteur, on behalf of the Socialist Group, for the way in which he has skilfully piloted this part of the Erika package through Parliament, keeping all sides together. The fact that we have a better product at the end of the process than we did at the beginning is a tribute to his skill in particular. This is the final part of the Erika package so we also ought to thank the Commissioner, who has been working relentlessly to ensure that disasters like the Erika and so many others in EU waters in recent years do not occur again. We did have many new laws in the 80s and 90s, but they were not fully implemented or complied with. I hope that this new EU initiative, the Maritime Safety Agency, will coordinate, monitor and enforce maritime law. I hope it will come up with fresh proposals where necessary, but in an open and transparent way. We all hope that it will work with us in the European Parliament to make our seas safer and protect our coastal environment. For too long in Europe, the laws of the sea were more appropriate to the 19th than the 21st century. I hope that by agreeing to endorse the Commissioner's recommendation and the common position we can help modernise EU maritime safety and have EU safety laws that we can all be proud of, but of course the proof will be when we no longer have terrible maritime disasters. You can never have 100% safety, but this proposal will do a lot to make our seas safer, save lives and protect our coastal environment. – I too should like to thank the President-in-Office for his answer. I refer to the Transport Council and in particular to the latest report on the concrete implementation of the strategy, which showed a distinct lack of progress on many fronts in the transport field. The strategy raises serious concerns about the transport implications of enlargement, but the report did not suggest much in the way of concrete measures. What concrete measures does the presidency propose? Such measures are essential if transport is to be fully taken into account in the enlargement process which, it is to be hoped, will result in environmentally sustainable policies. – Madam President, following the tragic events of last week in the Aegean, yesterday's suspension of over 60 Greek passenger ships which do not comply with EU laws is, I am sure, welcomed by the whole House. In addition to passing on our condolences – which I am glad to note you already have – and our gratitude to all those involved in the rescues in those tragic events, could the President ask next week's Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism to investigate why 79 people had to die before these ships were banned? That committee needs to ask urgently why Member States are ignoring EU maritime safety laws – it is not just Greece. We need to ask that committee to review why certain Member States are granted lengthy opt-outs from those maritime safety laws. – Mr President, for the railways the status quo is really not an option. They either have to change or die. Railways in Europe are in terminal decline, not least in the rail freight sector. New freight goes by road in Europe, not by rail. That must change, and I believe it will. That is why I broadly support the Council position which represents a small but important step towards railway liberalisation. The alternative to this modest step is no step at all. That is why tonight, regretfully I cannot agree with the tactics suggested by Mr Jarzembowski because it is a recipe for going nowhere at all, very quickly. We have to take into account national differences and indeed, social and employment concerns. Broadly, the Council position has struck the right balance on the charging, licensing, access and separation issues. They have struck a right balance between both extremes and I would advocate – to use Mr Swoboda's term – that "third way" should be applied to the railways in Europe. Labour MEPs have two particular concerns which I know are shared by many other Members: one is the issue of derogations. We believe that Greece, Ireland and Northern Ireland should have a limited derogation of five years because of their unique geographical and geopolitical circumstances. Secondly, we hope that the deletion of Article 12, led by the Liberals in committee, which could deprive citizens and consumers of network benefits and deprive disabled people of access, can be reinserted into the text. Those basic safeguards must be restored. The prize for us tonight is that for the first time in history we can achieve liberalisation of the international freight network. That is an achievable goal. Let us not throw it away. . – Madam President, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, I thank the rapporteur, Mr McCartin for his report and efforts and, in particular, for the way in which he highlighted the major concern of my committee, namely the slow rate of implementation of the Community's structural funds. As he so rightly highlighted, that is the bulk of the problem in terms of the surplus that this Parliament is addressing. The question to which my committee failed to receive a satisfactory answer from the Commission, was why do we allow such a situation to develop in the first place? It was predictable that in the first year of the structural fund programmes rates of implementation would be very low. Yet we were faced with wholly unrealistic budget forecast expectations and scenarios which, by definition, could not be fulfilled. So we are dealing with a situation where, in many areas, there has been almost no expenditure whatsoever under certain budget lines for the Community's structural funds. We believe this makes it much more difficult for this Parliament and my committee to scrutinise the budget adequately and rigorously. As a regular item on our committee agenda, we have now decided to focus on budget scrutiny and, at each discussion, we invite the Commission and the Council to participate with us in a thorough review of expenditure within the structural fund area. But that job is made very difficult by these wholly unrealistic budgets. The Commissioner must explain how we are expected properly to evaluate a budget which is in itself extremely questionable. Our second concern really relates to the second point the rapporteur made in his opening remarks – the way in which the structural funds are currently managed. We share his concern that the regulations are overly complex and make our job, as a Parliament, of scrutinising the budget very difficult. So we have a double problem there. Many organisations, individuals, groups, associations and communities that are eligible for structural funds fail to receive their fair share because of the over-complexity of the application process. We, as a Parliament – and the other authorities charged with monitoring budgetary expenditure – have a problem in that we cannot adequately monitor expenditure to ensure value for money. My final point concerns the trans-European networks. We reiterate our view that the Commission is right to focus on fewer projects but we oppose the fact that the Commission is now planning to make a EUR 60 billion addition to the trans-European network transport budget line. We invite the Commission to comment on how they can ensure value for money when they are planning such a massive increase in expenditure. Mr President, I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur and the Commissioner for the debate they have both facilitated. I think that this European Parliament should be proud that every point of view has been heard and every point of view considered. The original text was, quite rightly, heavily opposed and indeed heavily amended. It looked at ports through the wrong end of the telescope. Rather than competition between the ports it focused on competition within the ports – a little like single market legislation to increase competition within a supermarket rather than between supermarkets. It failed to tackle unfair state aids or the lack of transparency of accounts. In particular it threatened the successful United Kingdom model of ports, some of which, in my region, are amongst the busiest and indeed I would say the most successful anywhere in the world. To be fair, some of these deficiencies have been addressed, but conciliation failed to successfully address many key concerns. It failed to exclude self-handling or to ensure compulsory authorisations – the 'must or may' issue – and it failed, in particular, to exclude marine pilots from the scope of the directive. However, this is not about what is in it but rather what is not in it. There was no real action, in my view, to tackle transparency or unfair state aids. This Parliament should also be concerned that there is no consensus either within Parliament or with society outside. I am aware of the wide range of views, both for and against. However, I am concerned in particular that we do not have the support of port workers themselves. British Labour MEPs are also very concerned that important British groups are objecting to this proposal, and we should all be concerned when British marine pilots and, in particular, British ships' officers are recommending that this proposal be voted down on safety grounds alone. I said at the beginning of the process in 2001 that this proposal should be rejected and sent back to the Commission. Given that our key concerns remain, British Labour MEPs are going to be consistent. We owe it to British jobs, the future of investment in our ports and above all safety to reject this proposal. – Mr President, I also add my thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Piecyk, for his excellent work. I am very pleased that he has actually ensured that the final piece of the TENs jigsaw has been put in its rightful place. Particularly given the fact that most world trade is by sea, it was always a great omission that the TENs ports were never part of the TENs decision. That is now being put right. It is even more pleasurable because the maritime sector is probably the most environmentally sustainable part of the TENs network. It is a pity it has taken so long. The lesson for Parliament, the Commission and the Council on transport matters is that in future we should be doing less, but doing it better. I hope that is the message we can endorse here tonight. It will be a welcome boost for ports across the European Union. In my region, for example, the port of Dover will be encouraged to switch more goods from roads to railways. Ports such as Newhaven will be given the welcome boost that they so badly need to try and secure a role in the future. We will all benefit from this decision but we must look to the future. Very soon we will be faced with the proposal to revise the TENs network in its entirety. I hope that we can ensure that those TENs revisions properly incorporate the ports, ensure that there are fewer studies, more rail projects, more maritime projects and fewer roads. I conclude by again thanking the rapporteur. I hope that we can now ensure that these projects are implemented across the EU and play their part in ensuring the maritime sector reaches its full potential. – Mr President, I too regret the absence of the Commissioner here this evening. Perhaps she is stuck at Brussels airport. Perhaps she should have taken the train. I begin by welcoming the Commission's proposal to integrate Europe's convention on a high-speed rail network. I thank the rapporteur for his patience, his skill and, above all, his commitment to the cause of Europe's railways. I would also like to thank the Portuguese presidency for its skilful handling of this very complex dossier – an example of Europeans working together to solve common problems. This problem, I believe, can only be solved satisfactorily at EU-level. What is the problem? As we have heard already this evening, in 1970 the railways had a 21% share of the freight market, today just 8.5%. In 1970 the railways had a 10% share of the passenger market, today just 6%. If these trends continue just 4% of travellers will go by train at the end of the decade and rail freight will all but disappear. The sad fact is that the railways have lost ground even where there are well placed, for example, in long distance freight. The very future of our railways is at stake, together with the jobs of one million people employed in the industry. A key reason for this decline is that, in contrast to aviation and road haulage, a single market does not exist in this sector. For 150 years, the railways have been organised along national lines. Even the opportunity of electrification further divided Europe's railways because there are now five different systems in operation. More recently the railways have adopted 16 different and incompatible electronic signalling systems. That all adds costs and it means railways cannot compete. Differences have also contributed to the fragmentation of the market for railway equipment. This proposal being considered here tonight, together with other proposals from the Commission, aims to create an internal market in rail services. It will help achieve a harmonisation of technical standards for equipment and rolling stock and the integration of national networks to boost cross-border traffic. That will make the railways more efficient, reliable and more competitive. It would also boost the railway equipment industry in countries such as my own. It will contribute to the fulfilment of our aim of switching freight from the congested and polluted roads to Europe's railways and encouraging the development of more high-speed rail services to take the place of short-haul flights. The revitalisation of the railways is crucial to the future of Europe's transport system, our environment and our economy. That is why Mr Savary's report deserves our full support. – Mr President, first of all I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Bouwman, for his efforts over quite a long period of time in negotiating this very satisfactory proposal which will – as all colleagues have said so far – significantly reduce the amount of pollution dumped illegally into the seas around Europe. Let us pause and reflect on the scale of the problem. Mr Bouwman quite rightly referred to . This was indeed a tragedy of enormous proportions, with significant and perhaps enduring consequences, but the amount of deliberate spills from oil tankers along all our coasts dwarfs the amount of oil that was spilled from . It is that problem that this particular proposal aims to tackle. I am delighted that it will, by ensuring that the Member States provide adequate facilities at all their ports, that their ships and masters are obliged to use them, that the fees system is fair and balanced and above all that 25% of ships are inspected to ensure these requirements are met. I particularly welcome the three-year review, because my only concern is that Member States should implement this legislation that they have now signed up to. As Mr Jarzembowski will know only too well, on port state control several Member States still do not inspect 25% of ships. If they cannot do it on that, what is to say they will do it on this? That is our challenge to them: to make sure they adhere to the very worthy agreement that we are hopefully going to be endorsing this week. . We fully support the Commission's original proposal for CAP reform as set out and unamended by the European Parliament, with the exception of Amendments 38 and 99, referring to health and safety. The CAP must be reformed. Payments must be subject to mandatory cross-compliance with the environment, rural economy, and animal welfare Directives. The position adopted by the European Parliament will perpetuate a system which is damaging to the environment, the rural economy and animal welfare, and prejudices high levels of health and safety and harms produce in the developing world. – Mr President, I welcome Marco Polo in principle and in practice. Its predecessor, PACT, was very popular in the United Kingdom with both the public and the private sectors. I am sure Marco Polo will be even more popular in the United Kingdom. I should also like to thank the rapporteur for ensuring that Marco Polo will be even more business-friendly than PACT was. I agree with the Commissioner that is important that Marco Polo does not lose sight of its main objective, which is to encourage modal shift. Why must we do that? Firstly, because we must tackle pollution. Transport is the fastest-growing source of global warming gases in Europe. Secondly, we must tackle congestion. We must, for example, help switch high-volume, long-distance freight away from the road onto the railways where it belongs. Action is also clearly needed at EU level, not just at a national level. After all, only by encouraging the 15 railway companies to work together can some of the artificial national barriers to free movement be removed. Action is also needed to encourage greater use of our ports, seas and inland waterways. 40 per cent of freight already goes by sea. That is an area where we can – and because of Marco Polo will – see more growth. Marco Polo will make a difference there. Finally, and most importantly, let us not get carried away with our own rhetoric. Marco Polo is a positive move but, on its own, it is clearly nowhere near enough. The PSE Group urges the Commissioner to encourage more actions like this and encourage the Member States themselves to take on board their own responsibilities to encourage modal shift in a much more dramatic and radical way than we have seen in the past. – Mr President, it is a real pity that the Commission completely ignored Parliament's position on the 1997 Green Paper which stated: "No need for Community legislation on organisational structure and ". That was our position then and I hope it is going to be our position tomorrow, but so far the Commissioner has failed to explain why she has ignored that. Secondly, so far the Commission has ignored the question of why there has been no regulatory impact assessment on this proposal. Whether you are for it or against it, it is extraordinary that such a proposal as this is not subject to the assessment that President Prodi assured the House would apply to all new Commission proposals. Why is Mr Prodi not honouring commitments given to this House? Thirdly and finally, why is this proposal so over-prescriptive? Why is it going to burden a successful industry with more red tape, with no justification whatsoever? Why does it seek to regulate in minute detail every aspect of a port's operation? Why, for example, does it call for cargo handling to be provided by at least two service providers for each type of cargo? How can that make any sense when you are trying to organise the arrangements at ports? Bearing all that in mind and unwelcome as the proposal is, it is even more extraordinary that it does not address the issue of state aids or transparency of accounts. The whole package is unbalanced and unworkable. I hope the House rejects it tomorrow. – Madam President, I welcome the fact that the committee backed amendments to strengthen the commitment to environmentally sustainable transport by insisting on strategic environmental impact assessments of TENs projects. I hope that the House today supports that position. However, I am very concerned that the Commissioner, backed by the rapporteur, a British Conservative rapporteur, is adding at this stage six new TENs priority projects. The total value of these projects is a massive EUR 66.6 billion. None of these six new projects are in the UK. Indeed, most Member States have been left out. That is why some of us are insisting that either we all secure a fair share of the additional funding or, as an alternative, that no additional funding be granted today. – Mr President, as a British MEP I would like to say that on this occasion it is unfair to blame the French for the delay in implementing the Erika I package. The Council as a whole must share responsibility for the lack of progress. Sadly it is not just the , but the 1 000 ships that have sunk over the past ten years that really highlight the desperate need to make progress in the areas we are discussing this afternoon. Many lives have been lost, thousands of kilometres of our coastline have been damaged, perhaps for ever. That is why I, as PSE spokesperson this afternoon, speak in support of the Commission's proposal and the Sterckx report on the need to establish a monitoring system for maritime traffic. I thank the rapporteur for all the work he has done, but I should like to focus on one item on which I cannot fully share his views, namely Amendment No 11 to Article 8. Maybe the rapporteur could explain the amendment later on, but I fear that it seeks to water down the commitment contained in the Commission's proposal to ensure that high-quality voyage data recorders – black boxes – are fitted in all ships, old and new, by 2007. In my view, and in that of many in the maritime sector, the reluctance to accept the value of voyage data recorders and take positive measures to fit them in merchant vessels is a factor which makes safety in the maritime sector less satisfactory. According to marine accident investigators, a voyage data recorder not only records what happens, but also removes arguments and ensures that appropriate corrective measures can be taken. It is, in their view, one of the most valuable tools available today in preventing accidents from happening, not just in learning from mistakes. Electronic systems have highlighted the limitations of human ability to recall events accurately. They have on occasion shown eye-witness accounts to be totally unreliable. We desperately need these particular black boxes to be fitted sooner rather than later. To put it simply, a ship fitted with a black box is a safer ship. First, lessons can be learnt and they can be learnt accurately. But secondly, there will be a significant change in the safety culture of a ship as a whole. Therefore the VDR is, if anything, a preventive tool. We would therefore support the Commission's proposal. The IMO route is perhaps a better one, but we are not prepared for a study that may be published in 2004 – who knows? We want action and we want it now. – Could I begin by thanking the rapporteur for his work on this very important dossier, and by congratulating the Commissioner and the Commission for bringing forward this proposal. We are all very aware that one of the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency, quite rightly, is to tackle the scandalous position regarding road safety in the European Union.  I know they are familiar figures, but 43 000 citizens are killed each and every year. That is the equivalent to a medium-sized town being wiped off the face of the earth every year. We therefore welcome this initiative as a means of at least trying to ensure the heavy goods vehicles are as safe as is possible and comply with Community legislation. Lorry traffic on EU roads is growing both in numbers and in size and we think there are three reasons why this proposal is so important. Firstly, the safety argument that we have already heard about. Secondly, the fair competition argument that my colleague Mr Jarzembowski has already referred to – the need to create a level playing field throughout the Community. Thirdly, there are also the environmental benefits – the possibility of ensuring quieter and less polluting vehicles. There is clearly a need for EU-wide random checks, and the UK – my own Member State – has already been applying such a system with very positive results. This proposal will inevitably be bad news for cowboy operators, but as well as being bad news for them, it is going to be good news for all other road users, particularly the vast majority of lorry drivers, owners and operators who are conscientious about the quality, safety and environmental standards of their vehicles. I welcome this initiative and I hope it can be put into effect as soon as possible. Mr President, on behalf of the PSE Group I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Koch, for what is truly an excellent report, closing this big loophole in seatbelt legislation. I would also like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the PSE Group, in particular to thank Commissioner Liikanen for bringing forward this proposal. There is no difference between us on the core of the proposal, but merely on this issue of side-facing seats. In the short time available I wish to focus on that issue alone. That does not mean to say that I do not applaud the rapporteur for his efforts on the bulk of the proposal. However, the issue is an important one. If we prohibit seats without seatbelts that face forward, why then - if the rapporteur has his way - are we not doing the same thing for side-facing seats? Far be it from me to defend the Commissioner - I am sure he will respond to these points. However, we cannot support the committee amendments. There is no sound logical reason why side-facing seats are safe. Surely the laws of gravity apply to people facing sideways, just as they do to people facing forwards. Indeed all the research from the Commission suggests that these seats are simply not safe and that no safe technology exists to secure the occupants of side-facing seats. To use the comparison of city buses is just not credible. City buses, in the main, travel at low speeds in towns and cities. We are talking about coaches, perhaps travelling at 90 kilometres per hour on motorways. The big question for our Group, for me - and, I am sure, the big question for Parliament, when we vote - is how we can demand that our citizens wear seatbelts if we send confusing signals. If the bulk of people have to wear a seatbelt in a coach but those at the back, in a so-called cosy corner, do not have to wear one, it simply does not make sense. Let us not forget that one of the principal causes of death and serious injury on the roads in the European Union is still, sadly, people not wearing a seatbelt. Parliament has to send out a very clear, simple message when we vote tomorrow, and say that people travelling in one of these vehicles must wear a seatbelt. Given that there is no technology for side-facing seats, then we must say to industry that these particular seats must be phased out. To be pragmatic and practical, if industry can come up with a safety-belt for side-facing seats then the PSE Group will of course, think again, as, I am sure, will the Commissioner. There is not much dividing us. But it is important that we send out a clear, simple message tomorrow that if you travel in these vehicles in the future, you must wear a seatbelt and that there will be no derogations, no room for doubt. It must be clear and simple. I am sure that is what we will say tomorrow. – Mr President, I should like to thank both the rapporteurs for producing quality reports. I can support most of their amendments, but I have strong reservations about 10 out of the 51 amendments. The United Kingdom is a strong supporter of the Single European Sky concept. Personally, I wish to see it implemented as soon as possible to eliminate delays, reduce emissions and enhance safety. My primary reservations stem from how to best secure the military's involvement in the Single European Sky. That it why I support the Council's common position – its compromise on the flexible use of airspace where civil access is permitted to designated military airspace when it is not in use. This compromise solution was arrived at after careful negotiations over many months. I consider that it offers genuine and important benefits by ensuring that the greater effectiveness of the FUA concept is rolled out across the European Union. Amendments that bring the military into the scope of the Single European Sky regulations will clearly be opposed by some Members and, I fear, by many in the Council. Reopening the debate on this issue will clearly be counterproductive to the whole process of the Single European Sky. In conclusion, there is a real danger that, by seeking to amend the common position in this regard, we might jeopardise the entire Single European Sky project, something I am sure that we all wish to avoid. – Mr President, I too would like to express my deepest condolences to the family of those killed tragically in this ferry disaster, but also pay tribute to those involved in the rescue effort, not least of course, the Royal Navy. On behalf of the Socialist transport team, I regret the fact that this debate is taking place as an urgency. It could be more properly debated in committee next week, but that was the decision of the House which, of course, I respect. What we certainly do not need today, or indeed next week, or in the future, is a point-scoring exercise between our Greek colleagues in the run-up to the general election in Greece. That serves no one's interest. This is not a concern solely for Greece. It is a matter for Europe as a whole. This was an accident waiting to happen. Some of us have worked on the issue of ferry safety for many years, not least because other ferries in other parts of Europe have also sunk with a tragic loss of life, be it the, the or, of course, most notoriously of all, the in the 1990s. All these demonstrate that ferries are not safe enough. In our view, this tragedy could well happen again. Not because we have too few laws in Europe, but because the laws are not properly enforced. It is not just Greece. There are other Member States that do not comply with maritime safety laws and if I may, I will name some: Italy, Belgium, Denmark, Ireland and the Presidency, France, are all failing to implement the port-state control directive. I hope today, and in the coming days and weeks, we will hear from the Commission on what action they propose to take against these Member States that do not take maritime safety seriously. – Mr President, first of all, we do not want to force Sweden to change its postal system, but please do not force us to follow its example. In Sweden the Post Office went from profit to loss. Swedish Post lost jobs. Sub-post offices closed down. Prices for posting a letter in Sweden are 30% higher than they are in the United Kingdom. And if I may now turn to the United Kingdom, privatisation of the Post Office in the UK was blocked because public opinion simply would not tolerate it. What I find outrageous is for the Commission to propose privatisation through the back door. But what is really inexcusable is for the British Conservatives to support the European Commission's plans to decimate our postal system in the United Kingdom. It will be a triple blow to Britain and a triple blow in particular to rural Britain: an end to the daily delivery and collection; an end to the uniform price – people in rural areas will pay more for their post; and third and finally, an end to our extensive and excellent network of rural sub-post offices. I appeal directly to the British Conservatives. Maybe do not listen to us, but listen to the Women's Institute in the United Kingdom, listen to the Council for the Protection of Rural England, listen even to the Countryside Alliance. All of them are backing Mr Simpson and opposing your party's views on this matter. I hope that you and your friends can join with Labour in standing up for rural Britain by opposing the European Commission's plans. . – The south east of England was one of the regions first hit by the foot and mouth outbreak in the UK. As such, this report outlines many of the measures necessary to prevent such an outbreak occurring on the same scale in the future. However, there were many discrepancies introduced by politically motivated amendments which distorted the report; In particular: suggestions of breaches of animal welfare legislation. No prosecutions of any complaints occurred. Lapses in bio-security. Investigations proved no such lapses occurred. The culls were pronounced illegal. The courts found in favour of government action with regard to the contiguous cull. It was deemed a measure that was necessary to stem the spread of the disease. The European Commission was informed at  times. Breaches of environmental legislation. The Environment Agency looked into matter and found no environmental harm, In the south east of England, Labour MEPs felt that statistical error and political misinformation have combined to produce an inaccurate picture of the outbreak and the UK Government's fight to deal with it. Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating the Commissioner for bringing forward this proposal and our rapporteur, Mr Liese, for bringing forward this report. I could also thank Mr Jarzembowski for saying many of the things I was going to say, which is a rare thing indeed. I agree with him completely, for example, that it is a nonsense to say that the airlines will not cope. Let us be honest: air travel will double in Europe in the next 30 years, so it is not as if the airlines cannot afford to provide a glass of water and a biscuit if there is a delay. That is the sort of basic standard we should expect in the future, if this goes through. I welcome many of the features. For example, for too long passengers have suffered when airlines have cancelled or delayed flights for purely commercial reasons. I hope that will end. At last airlines will be forced to provide passengers with the food and refreshments they deserve, with the dignity and respect they deserve. I hope that all this will mean that the days of commercial cancellations and lengthy delays will be over. This is a great breakthrough for all airline passengers and also for the airlines, because it will not affect good airlines which look after their passengers. In conclusion, this deal could have been even better had colleagues on that side of the House stood firmer in conciliation. That was not to be. To misquote Neil Armstrong: it may not be a giant leap for mankind, but it is an important first step. Finally, I want to remind the Commissioner that we look forward to receiving similar rules for international rail, ferry and coach journeys  soon. – Mr President, first of all I thank the rapporteur for her splendid work on behalf of us all and also thank Mr Vatanen for his contribution, speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. I fully endorse many of the points he made, not least in respect of blood-alcohol limits. In fact there are only two points that I wish to make this evening. They relate to safer car fronts and the very important issue of blood alcohol. On safer car fronts, I think it is worth pointing out how clearly the rapporteur has made the case for the Commissioner to come forward with a directive. In fact this Commissioner pledged to this House in January last year, a year ago, that we would have a directive on safer car fronts. A year on there is no directive. What we have in February is a hearing. More talk. No action. Meanwhile, two thousand people in the last year have needlessly, unnecessarily lost their lives because the Commission would rather talk than act. I hope tonight and tomorrow the Commission listens to the vote of this House and decides to proceed with its commitment to have a directive on safer car fronts. No more talk, please. Let us see some action. And, indeed, the same is true for blood alcohol. We have had talk on this issue, year in, year out. We all know that ten thousand people a year in Europe are killed in drink-related crashes. We must tackle that particular problem. But I find it highly ironic, and I am sure the timing is not coincidental, that on the very day that we are debating blood alcohol, drink driving, road safety, the day before this Parliament is to vote on drink driving, the Commissioner has already made her mind up. She has issued a recommendation on drink driving. It would have been nice, would it not, for the Commissioner to have at least listened to the debate, learned what the outcome of the vote was tomorrow, before she decided to pre-empt the parliamentary procedures and issue this recommendation. We know a recommendation, alas, is simply not worth the paper it is written on. Member States need and support clear guidance. We believe it is time for the Commissioner to get tough on drunk drivers and drink driving, to come forward with a directive to reduce the limit to 50 mg. In the United Kingdom, which has traditionally had a good record, we have sadly seen over the Christmas period a rise in the numbers of people drinking and driving. In my own region, in some parts of my region, 17% of drivers tested were above the UK legal limit of 80 mg. It is quite clear that we need action. Indeed the British government is asking for a solution at European level, in a European context. So all I make is a very simple request to the Commissioner tonight to listen to the debate and to heed the vote tomorrow. – Mr President, can I first of all, on behalf of the Party of European Socialists, welcome the Commissioner's initiative. We share her objectives, we support her aims. However, we do perhaps regret the lack of integration with other initiatives that she is pursuing, which is apparent if one reads her communication. We also note the lack of political will that exists within both the Commission and the Council, although it is worth perhaps reminding ourselves that this initiative started with the Council in June last year when it requested the Commissioner to bring forward this communication. Indeed in March of this year, the Council in Lisbon sought further progress, progress which I am sure we would all endorse. The Party of European Socialists also supports and indeed welcomes the rapporteur's carefully judged position. It is subsidiarity in action: European where necessary, national where possible. I would like to thank him personally for taking on board many of our concerns, not least in the area of safety, which I acknowledge is now the number one priority for him in his report. The key concerns of the PSE include a regret at the lack of analysis of the real cause of air traffic delays. Airports' runway capacity, airline planning, passenger behaviour, airport infrastructure, as well as the shortage of controllers which was mentioned by the rapporteurs. A second concern of ours is this key principle, which we support and which needs to be developed further, namely the separation of regulation from service providers. That has to be a key building block of our new approach. Eurocontrol too must be reformed and revamped and relaunched. The third principle we support is liberalisation but not privatisation; and fourth and finally we want to see these proposals developed in conjunction with the proposed European Aviation Safety Authority. Indeed, above all, safety first should be our guiding rule, and I am sure it will be our guiding principle in the months to come. Between 1986 and 1996 air traffic in Europe doubled. It will double again in the coming ten years. We need to tackle this issue urgently and swiftly but in a coherent way. What we want to hear perhaps from the Commissioner today is a clear timetable from her as to the speed at which she will be acting in the months to come. We all know there will be people waiting in airport lounges this summer asking, why their plane is delayed, not for minutes but for hours. Hopefully the Commissioner today can bring forward a timetable for when those delays will cease. I look forward to her comments, particularly bringing this Parliament up to date on the conclusions last week of the Council which received the interim report of the high level group. I urge colleagues to back the rapporteur's proposal and I urge the Commissioner to bring forward a very clear timetable. – Mr President, I would like to start by thanking Mr Lisi on behalf the millions of airline passengers who will benefit due to his work and that of the Parliament and the Commission. The days of waiting helplessly while airlines cancelled, delayed and overbooked flights will soon be over. After years of letting the airlines make the rules, passengers will finally have a legal right to the standard of customer service they deserve. Regarding the amendments, I urge colleagues to vote against Amendment No 21 from the Liberals. They seek to cut compensation, but compensation surely recognises the level of inconvenience, not the level of the fare. I hope colleagues will support Amendment No 2. This extends the provision to other modes. I thank the Commissioner for her recent letter to me confirming that she will be taking similar action for high-speed international rail journeys. But what about international ferry journeys and international coach journeys? Will you, Commissioner, support Amendment No 2? On Amendment No 18 – league tables – airlines should be named and shamed for poor performance. Commissioner, will you support that Amendment? Finally, I would like to join my southern colleague Mr Booth and speak up for the Isles of Scilly helicopter service. It is an example of a vital link to a group of islands, of which, of course, there are many others throughout the Community. Can we have an assurance, Commissioner, that they will not be penalised for the inevitable technical problems that they encounter from time to time? – Commissioner, will you take it from all of us that we believe you have acted proportionately and not out of panic. The only panic here would be if this were being represented as a major threat to human health, rather than animal health which it is. In recognising the prompt action of the UK on 20 and 21 February, could you confirm that the UK has in fact now asked to draw down the remaining tranche of agrimonetary compensation, as the British Minister announced last night. Could you be specific about the additional support which will be needed if an entire farming community is to be able to survive the loss of its livelihood which, for many of those we represent, is now the case. Finally, have you had any reports from the FVO in Dublin yet concerning the causes of the outbreak at Heddon-on-the-Wall. Given that the risk by land and air of infection is now so great, will you at least assure us that you will not rule out preventive vaccination, at least to give additional assistance in the attempt to stop the disease spreading, even if the animals have to be destroyed later? – Mr President, it is always daunting to follow the measured tread of Mr Bowis as he spreads reassurance through the Chamber. I, however, tend to take the view of the rapporteur and of those of my political Group in the Committee of which we are all members. I wake up every morning, like Mr Bowis, and say to myself 'I am not a scientist'. I have no right to second-guess scientists. However, I do have a right to the long view and to second opinions, and where there are concerns, even if these have been allayed to some degree in the period when a new product is coming into use, as is certainly the case with salt of aspartame, nevertheless it is right to think after these products have gone into use – and they are now being used in many hundreds of different confectionery and other products – that over time a periodic review of a new substance is necessary. I do not think that any of us know, because we are part of this vast experiment, how far the human metabolism has been changed by this whole range of new artificial products many of which bring great benefits, as salt of aspartame obviously does to Mr Bowis, but which could also cause concern. He has probably received, as I have, a number of letters from the Additives Survivors' Network, who relate pretty grim stories of the adverse consequences of salt of aspartame for some of them. We are not advocating second-guessing the scientific committee and our own Foods Standards Agency in the United Kingdom. We are simply saying, over time you need to have the right to review this, to take another view once it is general use and is part of that great experiment among the population. My second and last point relates to the reduction of cyclamate levels. Mr Bowis says this was all the result of some brainstorm in the Commission. Some feckless person in the Commission foolishly said yes, a 250 mg limit would be acceptable. It is also actually as Mr Bowis probably knows, the view of the UK Government – in the advice that it circulates to us and is more frequently sometimes copied on that side of the House than on this – that a reduction to 250 mg measurement may be necessary. Why is that? It is because lifetime use has to be considered in the light of the intensity of the intake. We do have to take into account the extensive use, for very young children in particular, of products which have been flavoured and sweetened in this way. I believe that we should reduce to 250 mg and I am glad to see that I am in good company, though not alas that of Mr Bowis. Mr President, I am delighted that this debate has taken the form it has. I think that shows that in this debate at least, sweeteners can be a '' as well! The rapporteur has steered this debate impeccably through the difficulties that we often encounter with these comparatively small arguments. The problem very often is that they turn into the legislative equivalent of a Venus Flytrap. You hover around them and suddenly you are sucked in and find enormous difficulties. I believe that the three amendments the Commission has accepted are the right ones. I think it is completely satisfactory for us that we have a period of review, that we have avoided the problems that we suspected in comitology and that, as Mrs Oomen-Ruijten has said, we have been able to support and not needlessly challenge the opinion of the scientific committees. That is why I think Mr Lannoye's amendment was an amendment too far in that direction. It is not our job always to say, after there has been scientific appraisal, that is not good enough, and there should be further appraisal immediately. If you do that you devalue the work of the scientific committees, introduce an atmosphere of suspicion and end up with an unsatisfactory proposal. So I am delighted that we have moved in this direction. I am delighted also that we have reduced the level of cyclamates that can be used because of all our concerns about the exploitation of children and the way they now consume a variety of sweetened products. Finally I should say to the Commission in particular that if we could, in all circumstances, treat these small but important debates seriously but without the kind of hysteria that we sometimes get on either side, this Parliament would be a happier and a wiser place. – Madam President, it seems like only yesterday that the Commissioner and I were talking about other issues regarding the safety of some of these foodstuffs. Does the Commissioner still believe that his statement of 28 June was a necessary and sufficient answer to the concerns that have been raised? He has just told us that the FVO missions to Brazil and Thailand, and probably elsewhere, were cancelled because 100% testing is now in place within the Member States. If the Commissioner did not say that, then I misheard him. It is certainly true that in some of those Member States – notably Germany and the Netherlands – considerable concern has been expressed about the degree of nitrofuran residues in poultry and the extent to which even a very sophisticated Member State cannot guarantee by itself the degree of testing. The issue is not only what happens within the Member State – as the Commissioner knows, there have been a whole series of rapid alerts during 2002. I would like to know how many rapid alerts throughout the European Union have been proclaimed in this calendar year as a result of this continuing anxiety about carcinogens like nitrofuran when residues are discovered in imports. I would like to know whether or not he feels that poultry imports from countries like Brazil give cause for serious concern. I would like the Commissioner to put on record the opinion of the Commission and its own residues experts on the number of tonnes of poultry from the states in question that have passed into the European Union without proper inspection. My information is that something like 2000 tonnes of Brazilian poultry have entered the EU in this way. How close does the Commissioner believe we are to achieving 100% safety testing in the Member States? Why are these missions being postponed? Is the SANCO DG under pressure from other directorates? Are there questions here about endangering trade talks, meaning that one should not throw suspicion on any other states? If that is the case, it is not a sufficient answer to give to those whose primary concern is – as is the Commission's – food safety. Finally, how soon will these proposed missions take place? The Commissioner said earlier today in the debate on foot and mouth disease that he did not like disguised forms of protectionism – nor do I. However, I do not like disguised forms of concealment either, where there is a risk. If the money is not available and that is why these FVO missions have been postponed – tell us so. There are members of the Committee on Budgets here now. Parliament is very keen to support you, but we need candour in order to do it. – Mr President, Mrs Roth-Behrendt put it concisely. The seventh amendment is a backwards step – we all know that. It is not even the status quo. But to look at some of the protestations of the cosmetics industry you would think that this directive is something new. It is not. It has been with us for many years, and for many years we hoped and believed that an effective test ban, conditional on a phased introduction of alternative testing, was on the way. There is a phrase in the Bible that colleagues will know: ‘Hope long deferred maketh the heart sick’. If we are heartsick today it is because of the nature of that deferral. Those who deferred our hopes should listen now. Many in the industry not only accept the need to end animal testing, but have also put their own resources to that end. I have certainly benefited from discussions with them. It is true also that, to follow Mr Nisticò, some of the experiments that can be put in place involve human volunteers, human and animal tissues, and  testing. The development of these over the last few years has been a major step forward. But now the industry has to demonstrate that it has a realistic timetable for developing alternative tests. It is simply not good enough to say, as this glossy publication does, that you cannot set these timetables because that would be the equivalent of announcing the date for a cure for cancer. That is not the case at all. We are looking here at the way in which they might in this decade get to the point we and the public desire, and they will only do it with the looming incentive of a marketing ban. Equally, if we detail the allergens present in these fragrances, they are not being driven out of the market. It is a necessary precaution which should not threaten a single valid product. We have done it elsewhere, at great gain to human health. All the more reason to do it for products which, as I fully accept, contribute to human happiness and wellbeing. We shall all be happier still when we can use them with a clear conscience, knowing that unnecessary animal testing has gone for good. – Mr President, Commissioner Wallström always brings a light and happy touch to our proceedings and we are grateful for that. The severity of some of the remarks you will hear from the floor today do not reflect on her, but on the fact that she is caught in one institution which is now on a collision course with another. The rapporteur said that those listening to us in the gallery today may be curious as to what the word 'comitology' means. Some of us are too. Our visitors should not go away with the feeling that comitology could be effectively translated as a lateral means whereby the Commission can frustrate the will of the Parliament. We are an elected institution. We have certain powers. They have been extended. They are still not all that considerable, but we know where the boundaries are. On this issue I must say to the Commissioner – and I hope she will take this back to Mr Liikanen – that we in this House have had a debate which has continued through a number of Parliaments, through pretty much the entire parliamentary lifetime of everyone sitting in this Chamber now, from 1993 onwards. In 1997 the Commission purported to give itself a further power of delay and that was extended, although challenged, because all of us here – and everyone who serves as I do on the Conciliation Committee – agree with the rapporteur in acknowledging the difficulties which arise where there are not yet viable alternatives to some forms of animal testing. That is perfectly taken into account in the deliberations we have had, which estimate that it may take another decade to reach the point and the conclusion that we all want. But what happens in the meantime? What happens if this conciliation fails? We are not talking then of something which is only temporary, only due to last for the duration of the present conciliation. We are talking of something quite different. I would like to read to the Commissioner the fifth paragraph of the vice-chairman's letter, written on behalf of our committee, to Commissioner Liikanen. He says that the Commission exercised its powers – which are disputed anyway – in 1997. When the implementation date for the marketing of animal-tested cosmetics was postponed to 30 June 2002 by Directive 2000/41, this postponement was to be – to quote the words of Recital 10 – for the 'last time'. Now here we are again – and it is not the last time, it is the penultimate time. Or is it just one in a whole series of delays and frustrations? If you have an elected Parliament you have to listen to what it says, otherwise these people in the gallery are wasting their time and we are wasting our time in coming here. Commissioner, you must go back and say to Mr Liikanen that he should think again. – Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the reason for this question and for its urgency. Essentially it concerns the pace at which we will be able to open a full and proper debate on the standards for a single MHP, were we to have one. The Commissioner will, I think, be saying in his reply today when the necessary standards are going to be introduced and published. The reason for the urgency is that this subject also relates very much to the ongoing debate about media concentration and to development in the field of broadband communications, particularly in the light of what is happening in television and broadcasting at the moment. In my own Member State we have had ambitious plans, aiming to have the most competitive broadband system in the developed world by 2005. However, there have been stumbles along the way to the intended creation of a real competitive market for digital broadcasting and towards a measured advanced analogue switch-off. That serves as a warning to many of us – certainly those in the Committee on Culture, which is unanimous in the view that I am expressing – that the consumer and the citizen need to benefit from an open and wide debate, taking some account of the problems we have had in past attempts at regulation, as well as of those that we face now. There need to be clear markers on the ways in which a system of non-discriminatory interconnection and oversight of the gateways of broadband broadcasting and other systems can be operated in the public interest. I am painfully aware of the fact that one of the first attempts to set standards for early satellite broadcasting came adrift because the most powerful broadcasters in the field at the time – and they are still there today, but stronger and more powerful – deliberately decided to bypass these standards and to go their own way. With effective use of the market and less advanced technology, they were able effectively to end that first attempt at common standards. We do not want to make that mistake again, and I believe that in this situation we want to know how we are proceeding. I would ask the Commissioner to indicate how the European Union as a whole can take an active role, so that the operators of APIs are encouraged and helped to come together. He must know of the suspicions in this regard and precisely where they originate. The APIs are likely to be repeating in some ways what happened in the debate about conditional access and the gateways for satellite broadcasting. Many – particularly in my country would say that you do not need to have a single mandated standard, and that it would be better to encourage the APIs to come together. For the sceptics who believe that it would be very much against some of their interests to do so, and it has to be acknowledged that we would then be gambling everything on a strategy which some of the big operators, once again, would not want to cooperate with. How would the Commissioner square the need for competition that guarantees plurality with the technical advances which – according to those who operate it and profit by it – will come from the unregulated market? I do not believe that we can take this matter further without a proper consideration not just of the technical debate but also of the way in which monopolies are currently developing. Mr Rocard's questions, I hope, will take the debate further and I will at least be able to listen to the Commissioner in the time available to me. I do apologise again for the fact that I have to leave before the conclusion of this debate, which I am taking part in, as you can see, at very short notice. Mr President, Mr Perry has reminded us of where the directive has succeeded and he has also indicated, very politely, where we have gone too slowly. We have gone too slowly in tackling the problem of media concentration, the limits to public access and the progress we have to make towards a sensitive, but forceful, restatement of this directive and its contents framework. I would say to the Commissioner that we are now in the 52nd month of this Parliament and more conferences and discussions simply intended to spin out time until the end of the Parliament are not good enough. I thank Mr Perry for accepting my own amendments on access in paragraph 44. Television must empower as well as entertain. Digital broadcasting can reach those with sensory deprivation just as well as it can reach the mass audience. In this year, above all, we should make progress to that end. . – Mr President, I declare an interest as a director of a television documentary company, in which I am now not very active; but I retain my concern for the quality of our broadcasting and television. I welcome Mrs Hieronymi's report and salute her for it. It goes to the heart of the cultural diversity that we prize in Europe. We defend public service obligations – however the service concerned may be financed – and the principles of universal access, which constantly come back in all of our debates now about technology. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has taken heed of the imbalance in the European audio-visual market place, and I hope the Commissioner will be able speak on this. Since 1999 the revenues of European television companies have grown by an average of 46.3%. In that time, public-service broadcasting hardly grew at all and creative television production in the five major producing countries of the European Union was sluggish or, in some cases, falling. At the same time, US programme sales to Europe – programmes which, as we know, are reaping their tertiary reward, having already cleared their primary and secondary rewards in the US market directly and by satellite and cable – grew massively. That is not a healthy situation. The protection of the diverse market in Europe remains crucial. The imperatives of the technology should be linked to what consumers need, as well as what the production empires want to sell. Article 3a, referred to earlier by the rapporteur, shows what can be done to keep the widest audience for special events. I too support Mrs Junker's amendments and others on the same point. It was a major change for the better and it showed that we can intervene here and in the European Union. We need to return to the issue of media concentration and how that relates to the public good, not just in terms of diversity but also in terms of raw political power. Finally, we ought to be able to say to the applicant countries: do as we do and not merely as we say. That means having rules that are observed, for them as well as for us. – Could I briefly ask the Commissioner if he can be specific now on an issue many of us, including Mrs Hulthén, have raised with him before, that is the potential dangers of plastic inedibles which are given away with sweets and other things and which are not a foodstuff. They are a plastic, but they are not really designated as one or the other. Is he confident now that these substances are actually safe for children? – Does the Commissioner acknowledge that there are questions of urgency in some of the research involved, as well as the fundamental debate on first principles and that this should not be an area in which there is unnecessary filibustering by any ethical committee or group? .  Mr President, I would like to say how pleased we are that Mrs Ghilardotti has recovered and is with us today. This is a debate about people and our concerns for them. I would like to say, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, that we very much support what the rapporteur has said on unfair commercial practices, that is, that the principle of the vulnerable consumer must be accepted and recognised, that we must take into account disparities between national protection rules, that we must insist on a double legal basis and that the principle of optimum harmonisation should hold good for all three directives. In my remaining seconds I would just say that I am very grateful indeed to the rapporteur, Mrs Gebhardt, on the issue of enforcement for accepting that each state should be allowed to decide how the regulation should be implemented by the public authorities, but according to Amendment No 76 it will be implemented by public authorities in alliance with, but not supplanted by, other public interests and by NGOs. This is a good day for consumers and, despite the rather stunted debate we have had, we should shout that fact from the rooftops. I should like the Commissioner to tell us two things. Firstly, is he considering specific limits for the percentage of water which can be added? I understood that we were looking now at an upper limit of around 20%, instead of the 40% and 50% we sometimes see. Secondly, does he realise that the perpetrators of this scam said on British television that they have foolproof ways of disguising the fact that protein not of the origin advertised could be added to the product? Will he ask the EFSA or a similar body to investigate how these methods have continued in the way they have? They constitute consumer fraud and a public health scandal. . – On behalf of the British Labour Delegation, I would like to explain that with regard to the proposals in the Grossetête report concerning veterinary medicines, we believe that the Commission should accept the current practice in the United Kingdom and Ireland. This allows registered personnel to administer a range of animal medicines without a veterinary prescription in cases where veterinary involvement is not considered necessary for safe and effective use. This has worked effectively for many years and has not led to any safety concerns in relation to consumers or users of such medicines. We also believe that the re-validation of all such medicines should be set at five-yearly intervals, rather than given indefinite authorisation. We do not support the Commission's view that all new active substances for veterinary medicinal products should be authorised under the centralised procedure. This would significantly impact on the development of new products for localised species/conditions and would exacerbate problems of availability of such medicines. Flexibility must therefore be maintained. Mr President, this is part of the health package put together with the food law legislation, and I salute Mr Schnellhardt for what he has done over many years in this regard. I support him in his urge that we should limit the degree to which the annexes here can be altered by comitology. The devil is in the details. We do not want the disease to be in the details as well. We have cause for concern in all circumstances where food of animal origin is being packaged and identified. The Commissioner knows from my own correspondence with him of the difficulties we have had in the East Midlands with the Denby scandal and others where meat was wrongly identified and sold when it should not have been. The extension of inspection by ancillary staff in the case of red meat causes us special concern. We do not want to see this extended to fattening pigs and calves. The Commissioner said that this is perfectly safe and it has worked very well with white meat. I am not so sure it has, and if he sees the Consumers' Association survey of the conditions in which chicken is being packaged and sold, he will see that there is room for doubt and concern even here. It is not a reflection on the hard work and dedication of the staff who are employed in slaughterhouses. It is only to establish that they are not put under intolerable pressure and that every possible safety means is employed. I personally salute Unison, the trade union, for campaigning on this issue. On this and this alone I believe that we have reason to go beyond the common position for safety's sake. . – Mr President, it is a pleasure that this morning this House can have a diversion from the distant drumbeats of war to the needs of the citizen as consumer. Those needs are addressed in the consumer action plan 2002-2006 and in the Green Paper and its follow-up on consumer protection. I shall be introducing my own report and that of our distinguished colleague Mrs Patrie, who is unable to attend today. A major debate is now under way about consumer policy. It is being aired at the Convention with doubts, which I share, about the apparent demotion of consumer priorities by an amalgamated Council, which also has to cover social affairs, employment and health. It is present in the financial anxieties which beset the one area – food safety – which we had intended to be freestanding and no longer part of these general debates. I share the concerns expressed about the funding – for which this Parliament has part of the responsibility – for the ESFA, at long last to set forth in an effective manner. It is also seen in our own differences over what kind of framework directive best regulates the business of consumer relationships and where and how unfair practices can be identified and redress sought. For my own report I am indebted to the Commission, the shadow rapporteurs of all parties and all those who have worked with me to produce a consensual report, notably my own former researcher, Michelle Smyth, whose intermediary skills have now been transferred to our National Consumers' Association. My approach to the priorities set out in the action plan has always been to keep it simple and focused. I shall be referring to amendments which have somewhat blurred matters by trying to bring other debates into what should be a clear statement of priorities. I have discouraged amendments which loaded other good causes on to our own report. That is why in my response today I have been unable to accommodate, any more than I could at the committee stage, some of those on either the Left or the Right who wish to make this also a debate about eco-labelling, the virtues of organic produce or, on the other side, the virtues and provability of GM technology. As the Commissioner well knows, there are other places where these things will be discussed. Indeed, he will be introducing proposals along those lines very shortly and they will be welcome. I can, however, accept the one other new amendment by Mrs Thyssen, whose report we are also discussing and who has played a very constructive part in these debates. I cannot accept that we should go further from the area which was laid down in the very extended debates in committee. Some people have queried one or two other amendments, notably the original paragraph 15, which was an amendment put to the committee by Mrs Thyssen. Some in her party have asked why that should be there. I am sure Mrs Thyssen – if she speaks later – will explain its merits so that her own group can understand it. I shall turn now to the broad principles of the action plan we are deliberating. They were set out as a threefold proposal. Firstly, a high level of consumer protection. All the reports before you agree on that and on the need to strengthen the legal base in the Treaties for it to be achieved. They also agree that on the important issue of minimum or maximum harmonisation we should be looking sensibly at a case-by-case basis. Secondly, on effective enforcement of consumer protection rules, again we agree – perhaps from slightly different standpoints. Only five States out of 15 have met the Barcelona targets for implementation. We need to show the accession states that we can do better than that and help them to do the same. Thirdly, the involvement of consumer organisations in EU policies is crucial for the enlarged Community. We need to know from the Commissioner how the necessary funding will be allocated this year when the existing funds have dried up for the accession states. Finally, we added a new principle: the mainstreaming of consumer welfare in EU policy objectives. The point was forcefully made yesterday by a delegation from the European Bureau of Consumers' Unions which met with members of the Convention. The next three years will determine whether we can meet the needs of the consumers in an enlarged Europe. It needs the whole force of the Commission and the Member States to bring this about. At the moment only about half our citizens know their rights as consumers. An informed consumer is an empowered citizen. It is our duty and privilege to help to bring that about. I now turn to the report by Mrs Patrie. I am speaking here from her own proposal and notes. On the Green Paper on consumer protection, which was first brought to us in October 2001, we have now finally come to the stage of an ambitious debate on these proposals for a genuine internal market for consumers. Through extensive consultation with the Member States, business and consumer organisations, the Commission has looked at which legal instruments could best guarantee a high level of consumer protection whilst also removing barriers to the development of intra-Community trade. The Green Paper states that the fragmentation of rules has prevented the smooth functioning of the internal market. All of us agree with that. Experience shows that consumers' lack of confidence in cross-border transactions can be explained by the divergences between bodies of law and by consumers' lack of awareness of the legal guarantees available to them. From a consumer standpoint, the obstacles to the development of international trade lie primarily in the lack of certainty surrounding post-contractual relations. So we want to provide consumers once again with a simple, standardised legal framework, comprising a limited number of fundamental rules that are applicable whatever the nature of the transaction. The global approach of the Commission is, therefore, to be welcomed. This approach should not result in a lowering of the level of consumer protection achieved under national arrangements. In this regard it should not be possible for the party's choice of applicable law to strip consumers of the protection afforded by the mandatory provisions of the law of the country in which they are resident, provided that was the country in which they took steps to conclude the contract and expect it to be honoured. Nor should the adoption of general rules preclude the possibility of specific rules. There is also going to be a need to provide consumers with special protection in certain sectors. With this in mind the framework directive should set out the general principles governing the behaviour of traders at all stages of their commercial dealings, so that consumers' rights are effectively enforced. A general clause based on the requirement of fair commercial behaviour would seem better suited to this than the prohibition of misleading and deceptive practices, provided it is given a precise and workable definition. In the interests of transparency it should be the duty of the trader to disclose to the consumer in advance information relating to aspects of goods and services offered. In this area, too, the application of general criteria should not be to the exclusion of the special provisions covering information provided to the consumer. The Commission's attempt at defining a criterion governing behaviour based on 'consumers of average intelligence' is not particularly convincing. It is a very imprecise definition and the idea of measuring human intelligence in this way is liable to cause offence. It would be preferable to define types of behaviour that are deemed to be unacceptable and which constitute unfair practices. To this effect, the Commission could draw up a non-exhaustive black list of types of behaviour considered to be unfair. Moreover, we have to protect consumers who are particularly vulnerable. This applies to persons suffering from a physical or learning disability that makes them more susceptible to aggressive or misleading commercial behaviour, and to children, adolescents and the elderly. It should be possible to penalise traders who violate their duty of fairness, not least by means of injunctions taken out by consumer organisations. It should also be possible to take legal action as a preventive measure in order to put an end to unfair commercial behaviour, which – were it allowed to continue – might be detrimental to consumer interests. Finally, it is advisable to offer individual consumers a means of redress, not only for blatant and serious breaches of provisions – as the Commission suggests – but also whenever direct and certain damage arising from unfair commercial behaviour has been established. Whatever the benefits of the alternative methods of dispute settlement, the consumer should not be deprived of the possibility of a remedy. The Commission has not yet provided sufficient information for useful comment to be made about the contents of self-regulation and co-regulation procedures. In view of the diversity of national traditions and the uncertainties of the definition of the concepts, it is essential to continue consultations with the Member States and, at the same time, ensure the laying down of strict rules for the codes of conduct within the Community rules themselves. There is an urgent need to establish an organisational framework for cooperation between the national authorities responsible for the application of consumer law. All too often unscrupulous traders are being tempted to exploit shortcomings in the field of European cooperation. It will be desirable to establish databases to facilitate the exchange of information and to create a warning system to enable Member States to take concerted action for all consumers where the need arises. I again commend these reports to the House and I apologise for the absence of Mrs Patrie, who was unable to attend because of other business. – Mr President, it has taken us twenty-five years to come to the point of a common position which represents a real compromise. I want to pay tribute to Mr Lannoye. He is a parliamentarian of considerable skill, and he has argued his case throughout with force and conviction. But he undervalues his own contribution to this debate, because it is what he has done and others have done that have led us to a position which can be fairly regarded as a compromise. Those who deny that and say that we are still in the position of total obstruction, are really admitting – as those are who wish in the vote tomorrow to reject the common position – that they do not want this directive at all. They do not want to see the addition of vegetable fats anywhere, in any Member State, in any form, for anything called chocolate. That is not a position which either the majority of the Member States or the majority of consumers in the European Union would accept for one minute, and I want to use my brief time to argue the contrary case. If we move on from harmonisation at nought-percent vegetable fat, which has always been in the campaigning argument, we move to a position where we ask for safeguards for consumers, for the primary producers, and essentially for the standards that we set ourselves in the European Union. The amendments that came before the Environment Committee, with the exception of the few that were passed, were wrecking amendments. They were designed to postpone, for the lifetime of this Parliament and the lifetime of this Commission, any resolution of this issue, and that is not acceptable. They called for impact studies to come into force before the directive itself can take effect or all manner of additional labelling over and beyond the double labelling on the packet which is provided here for the consumers. My Group supports the common position with some exceptions, and they will all make themselves heard in this debate. We believe that this is good for consumers. They get a wider choice of product and separate and distinctive labelling. It is good for the manufacturers of all the vegetable fats and I include cocoa butter in this. Cocoa butter is the predominant component of all forms of chocolate, as it will continue to be, also for those who have produced the natural vegetable fats, a specific list which can only be altered with the advice and consent of this Parliament. If I came from Burkina Faso or Mali or one of the countries that produced  and I was told that the women’s cooperatives who collect the shea nuts that are a substantial part of their exports to Europe, will be banned or put at risk because they are seen to be stooges of the multinationals, I would be very angry indeed. The last point that I have time to make is to the producers of quality chocolate by the specialised methods we see in Belgium and some other areas. Quality argues for itself. You can have additional labelling if you want. People like me will continue to eat it, but we want people to have the widest choice of all the products which will expand the import of cocoa and added vegetable fats into the European Union. – Mr President, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent example of where a substantial and sensible proposal from the Commission has been further improved in our committee. In my remarks, I want to follow Mr Schnellhardt. I believe that it was right for our committee to go further than the Commission, after the abolition of the 25% rule, by also taking an axe to some of the exceptions and exemptions which had been suggested by the Commission. I wish to say something about the many people who correspond with us about allergies. For anyone suffering from an allergy, it is no good saying that it is only an insignificant percentage of people who have it. If you have an allergy, it is 100% for you and we need to be certain that the labelling concerned gives due warning. There is one area where we are not for the first time facing sustained opposition. Mr Schnellhardt just mentioned alcoholic products. Amendment No 1 which I moved in the committee and which was carried, would indeed make certain that there could be a single committee responsible for the labelling of products for alcoholic beverages. I believe that is important and something which has been strenuously resisted over the years by the wine lobby. We are not saying that the specialist committees should not be involved in this, nor that there should not be a dialogue. Sooner or later, we have to tackle, within this general issue of allergies and labelling, the issue of a special interest which has always stood in the way of accurate labelling of some products and of applying the same provisions to all products. I do not believe that we can go on with that and my personal view is that now is the time. I would recommend – although there is a free vote in my group – that we vote in favour of Amendment No 1 and that we start to label wine in the same way as we label other products. – Mr President, I join the general congratulations to Mrs González Álvarez who has been a sympathetic and inclusive rapporteur. She may occasionally have found the eccentricities of British car boot sales hard to follow but that, too, came within the remit of her personal charity. This directive should be welcomed by the whole House and the issue of general product safety and its extension is something which must be commended. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, under the wise guidance of our rapporteur, we passed a series of amendments which, again, my group would commend en bloc to the House today. We are less happy with some of the later ones. We have heard the justifications for them and for the reprise of the industrial arguments which we heard in committee. We remain unpersuaded and we will vote against most of them. Perhaps before the vote, Mrs Lulling or one of her colleagues, will tell us what the exact wording, particularly in the English version, of Amendment No 42, is. We could support it if the wording was 'installation and maintenance' and not 'installation as maintenance'. I am sure this is an error and if this can be confirmed, we will support it. This proposal includes some extremely valuable general principles including the one which the other side of the Chamber appears to find offensive. That is the principle that we do not export products that we believe are unsafe for our own people in the European Union. Increasingly, as world trade develops, we are faced with this problem and we have to tackle it and not back away on the grounds that somehow the rest of the world does not matter, whether it is the safety of its health, its foodstuffs or the product which we export to it. We have to look now at the links between products and services. The Commission have begun to take a tentative but welcome step in that direction and perhaps the Commissioner will say more about that when he replies. Finally, I would like to say a word about charity shops and car boot sales and all those other exchanges of donated and individual second-hand goods. The charity shops welcome the general protection of this directive. But they need an exemption from the obligation under Article 2 to provide information that they simply do not have. Our Amendments Nos 1, 8 and 18 bear on that point. I hope it will be possible for the House to support these because it cannot be anybody's intention to see these valuable and usually non-profitable charitable activities effectively driven out by an information provision which should relate to mainline manufacturers and to new or well attested products. Provided the vendor can always inform the buyer of the nature of the goods and the limitations on the information that should be sufficient. – Mr President, like everyone else in this debate I should like to congratulate Mr Lannoye. He and I sometimes cross swords on the issue of other nutritious additives, but in this case we are looking very much at the essence of the burden of proof before this list is yet further extended. He has done a service to the committee and also to this House by pointing out that this procedure appears to be almost always one-way. We need to hear from the Commission on two points of principle: the first is whether the procedures themselves need review as the Commission spokesman suggested in the debate in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy; secondly, whether there is a more efficacious way of removing additives as well as bringing them into effect. It seems to us that the list is getting larger and that the burden of proof must remain with those, be they in Member States, in the Commission or in the Scientific Committees, who want us to adapt these things. I am prepared to accept that some of these are harmless. Indeed, the committee and even Mr Lannoye were prepared to accept E949 and E650. However, whilst I would not claim to be an expert – as no other member of the committee would – on the issue of which of the various propellant sprays can safely be used, enough doubts were raised in committee, not least when we heard from the representative of the Commission, about the propellant sprays themselves. These are apparently needed by manufacturers because they produce an equal spray of fat on the utensil concerned. One of them is there only for professional use. The other two are regarded as safe for all. We all want to look again at this issue and see why they have been chosen and whether we might now hold back any clearance of them, at least until the review which is suggested has been carried through. With regard to the two amendments, my Group, whilst it supports the spirit of what Mr Lannoye proposes in Amendment No 1, would not go as far as this to write the precautionary principle itself into this particular directive. It does not seem to us to be the right place for it. We would prefer to strike out recital 5 and we shall so vote. This is the place to discuss the burden of proof rather than the overall principle of precaution. Finally, as regards Amendment No 2 in the name of my Group, this is purely a drafting amendment to remove references to the codecision procedure. But its meaning remains crystal clear. We do not think these additions should be made unless it can be demonstrated that the consumer benefits. At the end of the line it is for the consumer that this is being done. It is being done in the consumer's name. For that reason we commend Amendment No 2. – Mr President, I apologise to Mr Schmitt and to Mr Collins for the fact that I was delayed elsewhere and did not hear their introductory remarks. The opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, of which I was the draftsman, was unanimously carried and we are delighted to see that many of our recommendations have been endorsed by the two rapporteurs. We have to move on from the old excuses, the legal challenges mounted by IATA and the opposition to even modest voluntary agreements which we still hear on some sides. This is essentially a matter of the safety, as well as of the convenience, of the consumer. For that reason we particularly welcome the adoption of amendments on consumer health and safety in the Schmitt report's emphasis on the provision of information on health and safety requirements for airline passengers and the Collins report's adoption of the proposal that there should be an evaluation of health risk and research into matters like deep-vein thrombosis. The fact is that passengers today suffer not merely from being dumped from airlines, from the problem of lost baggage, but from other things which are often not the fault of the airlines themselves. They principally suffer from a lack of information. If the new agency does one thing, like the food standards agency which we are about to set up, it must be open, it must be transparent. We need to see how its investigations work. We need to see how its personnel are selected. It must be done on the basis of merit and without any links to the industry. All of those are possible if we adopt these two reports. I hope the House will give an emphatic welcome in the vote tomorrow. – Mr President, I will begin by congratulating the rapporteur. As the shadow rapporteur for my group, I have seen her diligence throughout these proceedings and we all wish to honour her work. This is quite a new state of the parliamentary proceedings, and we need to pick our words carefully as we look forward to a potential conciliation. At second reading we are deliberately putting forward only a few amendments which centre on some very important principles, and on most of those we will reach a further agreement. As Mrs González Álvarez has said, the committee passed, by a substantial majority, all of the amendments, and we propose to vote for them today. We need – we think we shall get – a clear assurance that we shall move ahead from these proposals to the safety of services and the liability of service providers and there should not be any division of principle on that. We need to make it crystal clear that we shall also be able to take out of the market, not just for us, but world-wide, those products which present a serious risk, not just for domestic consumption, but also in the global market, because such products can easily be recycled, as Mrs González Álvarez says in her new Amendment No 13. We are asserting that principle today in the signing off of the Maaten report on tobacco, and it is precisely the same principle that we invoke here. Of course, there will have to be some compromises and discussions, but we need to look very carefully at what the word "exemption" means, if it is going to be asserted as a limitation on the path to withdrawal. There is a will to agree and a will to compromise, but we need to do it on the basis that the precautionary principle is always held in mind in our discussions and that this is consistent with other things which this Commissioner and this Commission have done in terms of the banning of dangerous products elsewhere. Finally, I would like to say that whilst I am certain that we can harmonise the guidelines on safety which will be used throughout the enlarged EU and we can agree on external certification, we need to be careful of other phrases which I hear bandied about as possible compromises. One is "where appropriate". Where is not appropriate, where we are applying the precautionary principle? It has to be there throughout, not necessarily as the , but certainly as something that we bear in mind in framing the legislation. So I cannot, I fear, go along with Mrs Flemming's amendment, and I, like most of the committee, wish to press these amendments. – Mr President, I share some of Mrs Thyssens' reservations about what we are being asked to do here and the degree of expertise with which we do it. Mr Lannoye knows he has my respect, but I have to say with some regret that I fear we are repeating some of the debating errors of the chocolate directive and the determination to rechristen some products. Mr Lannoye's amendments have caused confusion in the name of purity when we come to the issue of honey. I agree with him about fruit juice and I certainly salute his motives. But there are a number of Member States which use filtered honey extensively to remove insect debris, grains of sand and pollen fragments. I have heard no convincing argument that this damage of the product adds unwanted material and indeed there are other amendments before us today which call for the removal of organic and inorganic material from some honeys. The Council had arrived at a sensible position on this and I have seen no evidence – and I have checked back with our own Food Standards Agency – that there are any legitimate concerns about content. There are other ways of tracing the origins of honey, as well as the pollen content to which the rapporteur has referred. Finally I would like to look at what a number of Member States call ‘baker's honey’, which is to be redefined, if the rapporteur has his way, as ‘industrial honey’. There is no such thing. I would like to think this was an unwitting translation error but this derogatory phraseology is probably not accidental. By just putting a noun with an adjective you cannot always make sense. If I were to describe Mr Lannoye, whom I hold in esteem as an ‘industrial Belgian’, it would be a meaningless phrase. We should use a real description understood throughout the Community, not an invented one. This is not a product only fit to grease the wheels of industry. It is a product that people know and have confidence in and it is safe for consumers. Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of an alliance of opportunists and hypocrites. On behalf of the European Parliamentary Labour Party, I wish to say that we are strong supporters of a Member Statute being introduced before the 2004 European Parliamentary elections. Because of that, the British Labour delegation voted for the ELDR/Green/GUE/NGL resolution. It bests reflects the entire delegation's desire for transparency and the renumeration of MEPs' salaries and expenses, as did the separate motions by those groups for which we also voted. The PPE-DE/PSE resolution supports the existing text from the Legal Affairs Committee and that involves contentious primary legislation which is not acceptable to Council and therefore almost certain to fail. The text does not make clear the requirement for there to be complete and transparent reform of all Members' expenses. This is not a position, in all friendship to our colleagues in the PSE, which we are able to accept. The PPE-DE/PSE resolution also calls on the Commission to give an opinion on the text of the Legal Affairs Committee before it has been discussed by us in plenary. This seems to the British Labour delegation a recipe for further delay. It will be fundamentally our problem and our responsibility. – Mr President, no one on the temporary committee will ever forget the aftermath of that great foot and mouth plague of 2001. When we travelled the country we talked to the victims, those who could not be compensated, as well as those who were, those who could restock and begin again, hopefully in a more balanced and less intensive system of livestock production, and those whose lives were utterly changed, who had, as Mr Sturdy said, lost their dreams. I would like to be able to agree with every word in this report and I salute the rapporteur's attempt to produce, as the Commissioner called it, a balanced, straightforward and future-oriented account. Where should it begin? It has to begin with the outbreak itself, with what actually happened and with the apportionment of blame. A balanced report is one in which all those responsible accept some measure of the blame, including the UK Government. I would point out to the House that there have been five separate reports in the UK alone, two by local authorities severely affected by the crisis. There have also been reports by the National Farmers Union and others who were participants in the whole tragedy. So to say that this is the first time we have looked at this is quite wrong. Mr Kreissl-Dörfler has produced an objective account and one which seeks to be fair in its allocation of blame and responsibility. I am sorry that some of the amendments that have been tabled run counter to that intention. We should not be attempting 20:20 hindsight. We should not be using shock logic to invent legal rules that were allegedly broken. When I hear Mrs Lucas speaking I am reminded of a Russian historian who once said to me that the wonderful thing about the past is that things are always changing there. You never know what is going to happen. The past is being rewritten here. That is not right. Some of the allegations in Mrs Lucas's speech were factually incorrect and should not be in this report at all. I prefer to look ahead. I would like to think that we can salute others who have not been mentioned so far in this debate, in the blame culture in which it has been shrouded. Firstly, the foreign vets, more than 2 000 of whom came to the UK and tried to help us solve the problems with the outbreak. Also the farmers, the officials, the police who struggled through those terrible days in March and April before we knew where and how we could bring this under control. Let us look ahead now: at inspections, movements of animals dead or alive, a fresh look at different kinds of agriculture, based on accountability, lessons learned – yes, including the lesson in objectivity which Mr Kreissl-Dörfler and the Chairwoman tried to bring to our committee and which persuaded most, though perhaps not all of us. Finally, I would like to thank the Commissioner. It is right that it should be this Commissioner with his concerns and priorities who is replying in this debate. Essentially, it is a matter, not just of animal health, but of human health and welfare as well. Mr President, I apologise to Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert for having missed her remarks. A mass meeting of the railway workers who have recently been dismissed is taking place outside, and that was where I was. I am sorry that we were unable to reach a full compromise agreement on the central issue here – the only one which I have time to address. Like Mr Parish, I have listened to, and paid reasonable attention to, the fears that we have not really made a market or tested out a market in terms of the provision of insurance. Nevertheless, I believe that at the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, with reasonable compromises on both sides, we arrived at a position where a 12-month study could lead – and I believe will lead – to a proper assessment of how insurance provision is made. I know that pushes the Commission further than in an ideal world it would like to go. However, given that the vast majority of Member States and the Council take this view or a stronger one in terms of the proposals, if we are to achieve any kind of agreement at first reading here there has to be an indication – perhaps there already has been – that we will follow that line. I am not personally in favour of a system that shifts to one of voluntarism on an ad hoc basis state by state, nor is my Group. We know all our lessons from the history of food problems. The provision of food and feed over the years since we first began to introduce a general food and feed law suggests that we need to have measures that apply right across the Community. It is no good saying that anyone can opt out of those measures. I hope the rapporteur will see that after a proper study and a reasonable length of time – and to me that means 12 months – we will arrive at that position. I hope, for its part, the Commission can also accept that. – Mr President, Commissioner, in one minute nobody should confuse attitude with platitude. I will be quick, firstly could you come back to this House when you know more about the timescale of the German contamination issue, particularly whether the rapid alert system worked effectively. There are more similarities with the Belgian case than I think you imply today. Secondly, would you accept with respect to consumer consultation that you need to be looking at the duty not to trade unfairly and the accumulation of case history in that field, as well as setting out the duty to trade fairly, which in your country and mine, and some others, is a fairly new concept. – Mr President, politicians are often told of the old actor's advice that you should never go on stage with children or animals. I fear, Commissioner, that you and I one way or another are on a stage with animals the whole time! This, however, has been a variant on the kind of health concerns and maladies with which we are only too familiar, and on behalf of my group I want to thank Ms Evans very warmly for the skilful way in which she has negotiated the process of codecision. She very modestly says that this was straightforward. No codecision that gets to that stage is ever entirely straightforward. You need to know when to advance, when to yield a little, and when to see that there may be further room for compromise. I cannot say that I was entirely happy about the way every part of this procedure went. I was not entirely happy about the secure position of the ferrets. I have been very insecure in the presence of ferrets. I was not entirely happy about the provisions with regard to animals under three months old. One has some misgivings there about the rationale for what we have done; but equally the Commission was probably uneasy to some degree about the fact that we have extended into the codecision procedure any further consideration of the exemptions for the UK, Sweden and Ireland, which will follow after five years. In other words, a standard piece of give and take, the kind of thing that until a few years ago, until we had the present Commission and the present Parliament, was not possible. It still only works when you have skilled rapporteurs who can go through these shoals. It has added modestly to the sum total of human happiness as well. There are many people, lonely people in particular, who are very dependent on the animals with which they share their lives. If we dare to believe that animals are sentient beings, it is also the case that we have added to the sum of animal happiness as well. That certainly is the view of my dog, which is the proud owner of two human beings! Mr President, I associate myself with everything Mr de Roo has said, and his outrage at these events is shared by many in the United Kingdom, which is the principal destination for these adulterated products. I would like to press the Commissioner further. Since chicken at the moment can be legally sold when it is 55% water and is adulterated by other proteins which the perpetrators of this scam boast is PCR negative and, therefore, cannot be detected by most tests, is it not the case that there should be a more direct form of action from the Commission? The FSA in Britain has now proposed, through Sir John Krebs, its chairman, that we should set a limit of 15% for the water content of what is labelled and sold as chicken. He has further said that at that level the addition of these proteins – which intended to sustain the holding capacity of a much larger proportion of water – would therefore become unnecessary. It is still the case, however, that many of those who are at the moment exporting these tainted products will continue to attempt to evade legal provisions and checks. I would like to hear from the Commission that it will intervene not merely by recommending better labelling and better testing – though, of course, we need that – but by taking action to outlaw these activities, which are a total fraud on the public and are likely in one respect to cause serious concern, because the injection of beef protein – which the perpetrators admit has come from countries where there is BSE, and they have not tested the products for that – may cause serious public concern as well. This is a matter that has outraged the United Kingdom and many others. We need improved testing, but we need direct intervention here from the Commission, and I am confident that we will get it. – We have two reports concerning the treatment and transport of animals: that will be a very familiar subject for the Commissioner. I would like to say at the outset – and I am sure that the Chairman of the Committee will say the same – how much we regret the absence of Dagmar Roth-Behrendt tonight. She is one of the most energetic, enterprising and intelligent members of the committee. She is the coordinator for our group on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection Committee and, in her general enthusiasm, she is like a one-woman Congress of Berlin. She is in Berlin tonight and is to have an operation in the morning. I am sure the whole House, even at this late hour, would join with me in wishing Dagmar well, and believing that she will recover with her customary vigour in the very near future. Dagmar Roth-Behrendt intended to move one of the two amendments tonight. I would like to say briefly why I and my group now believe that it would be for the better passage of this directive if it goes through unamended. That would mean, therefore, that we would wish to vote against both Amendments No 1 and No 2: Amendment No 1 for the very simple reason that it smacks of a desire to scuttle back into a form of neo-protectionism, but certainly over-regulation, of animal imports, which is a desirable but unnecessary consequence of the many scares we have had in recent years. In my country we are particularly aware of that, but we believe that the OIE code covers trade in live animals and will protect countries which do not have BSE from introduction of the disease. Additional measures against imports are not justifiable on health grounds and I expect that the Commission will say the same thing. Even more briefly, on Amendment No 2, which did indeed come in my name: at that stage, we tabled this because we believed that if there was to be a vote through this Parliament for tests at twenty-four months in all the Member States quasi-imposed upon them by the Commission, this needed to be amended with a provision that those Member States which already have other forms of testing – or in the case of the United Kingdom, the over thirty-month cow – should not have to go through that procedure. Given that the principal amendment fell, it seems to me now that the second amendment should fall also. So, from the point of view of my group, we are not supporting any amendments. – Madam President, at this hour brevity is a duty and not a virtue. Although I was not a member of the committee which produced this report, I want to speak because my colleague, Mrs McCarthy, who was a member, is detained by the grave events now under discussion at our party conference in Brighton. I am speaking as someone concerned with consumer affairs. Like Mrs Thors, I was for a time the Chair of the Consumer Protection Intergroup. Parliament's Rules do not allow us to express these opinions in the way we once did. The substantial majority which Mr Mayer rallied in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market was, of course, for a response which, as my colleague has said, was less than he would have wished. It is also less than I would have wished and it should be less than this Parliament would have wished. The principal recommendation here is for a further study of the consequences of a transition to the use of the principle of international exhaustion. Fine, but how long is that going to take when a parallel importer can be prevented from giving the consumer a quality product at a price which benefits them both? This is not like counterfeit products, as another speaker tried to suggest. It is not competitive selling at a loss to weaken rival products, nor is it driving down the quality of those products. It is a straightforward blockage of trade, which will not diminish the so-called grey markets but will make them more confused and complex. We need this to be a study which tells us of the shady side of what proclaims itself to be a respectable trade. I do not really expect more from the Commissioner tonight than I have heard from him privately. However, the matter cannot rest here. The Silhouette case was not the last word on all this and nor, as he would acknowledge, is Mr Mayer's report. Nevertheless I salute him. – Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mrs Paulsen, my colleague on many food safety deliberations, for the work she has done on these complex regulations. It is absolutely crucial that having set out the broad principles of a European food law and a food safety authority to act as the overall scrutineer of such proposals, the details are dealt with effectively and accurately. The zoonoses regulations to which Mrs Paulsen has devoted so much time are in a way the building blocks of the provision of an effective and precautionary food law for the future. It may seem rather over-elaborate to talk of them as building blocks, but they are an appropriate way to move forward. Some of us have reservations, perhaps, about the extension of these provisions, as they stand, to products of plant origin. An appropriate way to deal with  is through the hygiene regulations  and not in these additional monitoring provisions. There only I dissent slightly from what Mrs Patrie has said. Otherwise, I applaud her remarks also. I feel that, on the general detection and prevention of salmonella, the rapporteur is right to take us down this road as long as it can be implemented the length and breadth of the European Union. It is as necessary for food producers as for the general public. Without the restored confidence of the latter, there cannot be a secure future for the former. We want to have the increasing antibiotic resistance, which is being demonstrated at the moment in zoonotic organisms, accurately mapped. I do not agree with Mr Goodwill that there may be more harm than good in that. It is not a question of preventive medicine – it is of the other applications to which antibiotics are put, and wrongly, in my view. – Could I, on behalf of my group, assure the Commissioner that these proposals are welcome and just ask him a couple of questions about them: firstly, could he say more about the consultation programme regarding the candidate countries? It is urgent that those countries which aspire to join the European Union should be perfectly clear about the changing nature of the  and the regulations that they will have to follow. Is there to be a regular process of dialogue in which they will be involved? Secondly, could I ask about the process whereby dangerous products, or products that are deemed to be dangerous, are removed from the market. In this instance, is it the case that it will be possible to speed up the procedure under the rapid reaction process for taking something out of the marketplace once it is perceived to be dangerous? Finally, could I ask him about those products about which many people, including myself, have been in correspondence with him, which are thought to be dangerous but are not so regarded at this stage by the Commission? Flammable furniture would be a case I have in mind. Is there going to be a widening of the area of scrutiny which will take into account products of this sort? – Mr President, we return for the second time today to the grave crisis over beef, its safety and circulation within this Union under the rule of law. All of us believe that we need the measures which were promised by the Commission back in 1997. We need them especially because of the crisis through which we are passing. The issue of the identification of beef products and the certainty that they can be relied upon is as much at the heart of the dispute between France and the European Union as it is at the heart of the concerns of safety which have preoccupied both the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Environment over the last two years. I want to congratulate Mr Papayannakis on his patience over the last few weeks. We are all concerned about the apparent  in the statement by the Council. We are having this debate in a legislative vacuum if we have no flexibility of amendment. We see Regulation No 820/97 slipping away from us into a morass of half-observed voluntary practices with no immediate prospects of the compulsory scheme which every Member of this House knows is necessary. That is partly a result of Member State inertia, but I cannot exempt the Commission from its own responsibilities. They far pre-date Mr Byrne's arrival in office. But now, as he has to clear up this mess, we ought to hear from him how he will do so. The amendments of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy set out to remedy this with a remission of eight months maximum. Some of our amendments clarified and strengthened Article 152 as the legal base. Today the Council is urging that Article 37 be added to the legal base. This is surely an issue of health and consumer protection. I want to hear from Commissioner Byrne that he will be the defender of everything that was implied in Article 152 once it is added to the Treaty. The whole point of this is that it gives us a right to intervene, a right to be consulted and to be participants in the process of codecision. That right, so recently granted to Parliament post-Amsterdam, is now being snatched away. That has been the  of Mr Papayannakis throughout our discussions in the Environment Committee. It is an absolutely scandalous state of affairs that we are sitting here in a nine-tenths empty parliamentary Chamber, one week before Christmas, seeing a regulation which will come into effect no-one knows when or how, with a Council which is treating us with an aloof contempt. I do not believe it is good enough. I do not believe Mr Byrne thinks so either. – I was very glad that the Commissioner mentioned the ethnic minority groups and the need to open a dialogue with them. In practical terms can he tell us what, if anything, the European Union can do about a policy which has been virtually one of genocide over many years towards the Karen, Shan, and other minority groups? . – Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Lisi on his report. While he was drafting it, he attended the discussions on my opinion in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and incorporated many of the points raised. Our differences are really minor, but I will return to them. As Mr Lisi said, Members pontificate here on many subjects about which they have an imperfect knowledge, but we all regard ourselves as experts on the problems of passenger travel. They dominate our working lives. So there was a warm welcome for Commissioner de Palacio's proposals to move ahead from the 1991 regulations, not just on denied boarding but on delayed and cancelled flights as well. There is no dispute that what we call the hierarchy of remedies must apply, starting with compensation levels proportionate to the distance travelled. I think most of the airlines have responded well to this debate, with the air service passenger commitment as a gesture of intent. I would say to those maverick airlines that ignore all that – and we know where they fly to, if not always where they live – that they would be wise to heed the public mood. No frills should not mean no concern. In our opinion, we are offered an amendment to Article 7 which called for levels of compensation to be based on specific impact assessments, so that it could not be argued that they were frivolously levied. I must say that the levels of compensation in Mr Lisi's report are well beyond what we wanted under Article 7. We wanted mandatory compensation of between EUR 300 and EUR 1 500, subject to distance and review. That has fallen to between EUR 200 and 600, but I accept that in itself is progress for the consumer. I am still concerned that this does not necessarily apply under Amendment No 31, which refers back to Article 9 and not Article 8. Perhaps the Commissioner can assure me that those amendments will actually apply. Otherwise, Mr Lisi and his committee have advanced the consumer cause and have allowed us to move forward to a system of airline ranking. If only this applied to all airlines, all flights and all problems. Every day further horrors come to light. On a British airline, a woman had to endure an 11-hour flight next to a 23-stone woman who sat on her, not next to her, throughout the flight. She was left with serious injuries and initially offered GBP 15 compensation. You might say that the airline began with one handicapped passenger and ended with two. Our journeys should be reducing handicaps, not increasing them. I welcome this report as a step in that direction. – Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mrs Paulsen on the way she has handled this complex matter and, as Mr Goodwill said, has brought the committee once again to a consensus. My group commends her approach and will support the bulk of the amendments which have been tabled in the Committee on the Environment. I should like to make one or two points on the nature of the scourges we face. Mr Goodwill said that we have had these two great disasters but there is a third disaster which produced them. That was the indifference, and sometimes the greed, of those who stood by while the methods of rendering animal waste and feeding it back to animals became more and more extensive and the potential for disaster therefore even greater. So this is not a moment when we can happily contemplate the intra-species recycling of animal protein or indeed anything which brings about a further degree of risk in our agricultural system. We are still learning from the foot-and-mouth epidemic in the United Kingdom. In regard to the disposal of animal waste we have found that one attempt to avoid risk has faced us with another risk. When we look at incineration, when we look at burial and look at the hazards, created by the 1% of farms that have still been using swill for pigs, we see additional risks on each side. That is why I too support the idea of looking at alternatives which minimise risk. Alkaline hydrolysis is one such method. We need to be able to show that we are ahead of this particular scourge. The problem in the past was that we were like countries preparing for the last war and not the next one. We are constantly struggling with the element of unknown risk. Mrs Paulsen's proposals have gone a long way towards improving what the Commission has tried to do in relation to the disposal of TSEs. – Madam President, I am more distressed to have to disagree with Mrs Roth-Behrendt than she is to have to disagree with Mr von Wogau. There are precedents for delaying the debate for some period of time. Commissioner Monti will remember that on one occasion in the last Parliament he had to come in when a debate had already begun, because of transport problems. These are problems endemic in our meeting in Strasbourg in the way we do. It is a good week for this point to be brought to our attention. I would like to support the suggestion that this full debate takes place in the presence of Commissioner Byrne. I mean no disrespect whatsoever to Commissioner Monti, but Commissioner Byrne has been the honest broker in this terrible dispute from day one. We need to have him here when we attempt to reach some conclusion on it. Mr President, we are in the presence of the old hands today – that group of Members who have tried to deal with the questions of food safety and hygiene in cooperation with the Commissioner throughout this parliamentary term. I want to pay personal tribute to Mrs Paulsen, who has brought through a number of complex, difficult measures of this kind. Mr Goodwill said that these measures have unintended consequences. I would remind him of the principle of 'unright time', according to which people always say that the time is not right for doing something. Well, it is high time to be doing what we are doing in this area. The institutions have come together. There have been significant changes in the proposals for sanctions, financing, transparency and import controls. That, with the input of the Council, has made this a good proposal, and a very good one for Mrs Paulsen to end on, because I know this may be her last report in Parliament. She deserves all our thanks. The main issues that have been raised and which I wish to touch on are, first, how the balance of fees is being struck in a way that is fair to small operators, as Mr Goodwill said, but nevertheless does not allow exploitation and evasion of the rules by some. Second, how far we can specifically assist developing countries in meeting EU standards. How are these standards going to be applied and what assistance are we able to offer? Most of all, how can we guarantee the system of prior notification for high-risk products at ports that have the necessary facilities to deal with them? There is a big question mark concerning these ports of entry and recent experience shows that we have to deal with this issue. Finally, I am particularly glad that we have reached some agreement on the issue of sanctions. Sanctions as originally proposed were unwise and would not have worked. I am pleased to say that the route we are now taking, which has been agreed by most of the main players, is likely to lead to success. – Mr President, my group welcomed the report by Mr Papayannakis and salutes him for his persistence. I say that because he comes from a small political group – and it is often hard to make headway here – and he comes from one of the southern Member States, which will in some ways have to make sacrifices and introduce regulations to bring about effective, proper beef labelling throughout the Community. He has also had to face the obfuscation and delays brought about by the Council. The fact that we have had to wait two years for this proposal to become a practical reality is a poor comment on the urgency with which they regard it, although the situation was plainly critical from the time of the outbreak of the BSE crisis onwards. However, we are not here today for recriminations but for looking ahead. This is our chance to put right this sorry process of delay. Parliament has the opportunity, if it is willing to grasp it, to set a realistic timetable for the two-tier implementation of a comprehensive process of labelling for beef and for beef products. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, we supported most of the amendments from the rapporteur and others and we do so again today. We do that on the basis that the key proposal plainly has to be the issue of timing. Some of the versions of this report in themselves have been contradictory in the dates that they gave. We are now talking about implementation of the first stage in September 2000 and the second stage in September 2001. I was glad to hear the representative of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development say that they would settle for the four-month advance that would involve coming forward from January 2002. We believe that this is necessary because we should now get the whole European Union on the move. That is why we want the second stage as set out in Article 13(5) to be distinct and a commensurate advance. Why do we want that? There are some here – certainly some from Member States that have very effective traceability and labelling possibilities already – who would like to do the whole thing at once. They would be able to say to others: look – you cannot do it, you are at fault. Our job is to bring all 15 Member States together so that the process of traceability throughout the whole of the food chain, from the birth of the animal to its slaughter and disposal, would be universally applied throughout the European Union. We say to those who are resistant to this: please remember that it is necessary to bring everybody on board. What everybody wants – whether they are farmers, citizens or consumers in the United Kingdom or anywhere else in the Union – is to feel that they have equal confidence, wherever they are, in the safety of the product that they are consuming. We have struck out the second subparagraph of Article 13(5) and all other amendments which follow the same line of allowing imprecise mixed origins or an indication such as "EU origin". One day "EU origin" may be assurance enough but it is not at this moment. We need to know from which state a product has arrived. I know that there are people in the Netherlands who disagree with that and I would be interested to know why. I cannot see that "EU origin" is currently sufficient in the way of labelling and we are opposed to that proposal. We are also opposed to the derogation for minced beef, which might apply to something like 30% of the beef output, which ought to be open to labelling. Minced beef is as much, if not more, at risk as any other form of beef since it frequently comes from a variety of sources. It is the case in my country that we have seen minced beef and lamb and other meats mixed up together. We need traceability and labelling there as much as anywhere else. We agree with the rapporteur’s intention to stiffen and speed up the compliance provisions in Amendments Nos 42 and 43. We also agree that supplementary information should and can be provided for those Member States that need it and for those special regions which have important information to communicate. My last point is to end where I began. My country, Mr President, and yours – if I can call Scotland my country too, as I certainly would – have suffered the horrors of BSE. We know we bore a large part of the responsibility for it. It was incumbent upon us to make special provisions by way of food safety as a result. After our years of effort to that end, we can now justifiably say to the Community as a whole that what we want for ourselves we want for everyone else as well. – Mr President, this proposal has a long history. I can understand why the rapporteur and Mr Papayannakis are weary of further controversy. However, we are almost at the end. As the rapporteur, he has quite properly had to tell the House that the Environment Committee voted by a substantial majority – I think 33 votes to 13 – in favour of the excision of the provisions relating to category of animal. We have, on the committee, made a number of compromises, as regards both the timetable and the substance. The Committee has always kept a clear priority and has insisted upon it both to the Council and to the Commission: namely to have the sharpest, best-defined route of traceability on safety grounds that we can get for mince as well as other forms of beef. It was for this reason that it threw out at first reading the superfluous requirements about maturation times, much as chefs might have wanted them, and category of animal, which did nothing for traceability, added cost, and increased the disaffection of many Member States and of those who will have to implement this proposal. As a result of that, we thought the matter was resolved. Indeed, as Mr Papayannakis has said, there have been counter-concessions from the Commission. Now, to our amazement, category of animal is back, and once again the Environment Committee has voted to remove it. The Commission knows why. It knows we cannot be bullied with threats that our timetable will slip. We have made concessions including a full month’s delay on the implementation of the second phase of this proposal already. We have done that with a good grace. I urge the House to reaffirm its position at first reading and to exclude a form of compulsory category labelling which is entirely optional for Member States, – a form of labelling we should point out which we do not have in detail. We have to surrender to the secret harmonies of comitology if we are going to leave it to Commission to advance the precise definitions. We are not prepared to do that. We want traceability, we want surveillance, we want this proposal and we want it quickly. We want the best and most economic route to achieve it and Amendments Nos 3 and 5 do that. The various amendments on mince add to surveillance and traceability in the way we propose. Conciliation, Mr Papayannakis, does not take very long. It consists of two words from the Commissioner this afternoon: ‘We accept.’ Let us hear them. – Mr President, those of us from the United Kingdom extend all our sympathy to the constituents and fellow citizens of Georges Garot after the so far mercifully isolated outbreak in France. We also acknowledge the worries and concerns about which Mr Hyland and others have spoken of our neighbours in the Republic of Ireland. Would Commissioner Byrne confirm that the UK did its utmost to provide advance warning to its neighbours when this outbreak was first identified? Could he give any scientific opinion, as yet available to him, about the origins of the outbreak at Heddon on the Wall? Could he tell us if the movement restrictions throughout the European Union are now being widely obeyed and what penalties or sanctions are available in the case of rogue traders who are disobeying them? Would he agree that the spread of the disease has been predominantly through sheep, and therefore by animal contact, rather than wind-blown, and which offers us some hope that although the disease has not yet peaked, it can be contained? Finally, would he say that he agrees that the UK's policy of containment, slaughter and quarantine is still the best way of eliminating this disease, not just in Britain but wherever else it may spread in Europe? – Mr President, I wish to begin with a point of order. I understand that there is now to be no debate on the Malliori report. Mrs Malliori's report has been parodied and attacked in some countries, including my own, and we are owed a small debate on it. I am sorry that is not possible, and I know Mrs Malliori will want to speak about this. I salute Mr Schnellhardt for his report and diligence. I agree with almost everything he says. On the margin, there are some areas – for example the attendance of veterinarians, fallen stock, etc. – where there might be too much regulation. However, when it comes to the inspection of the premises where foodstuffs are being prepared, there must be independent examination. In my own country audits conducted by our Food Safety Authority have shown frequent evasions and omissions in terms of the way in which food is prepared, specific risk materials are dealt with and other matters are looked at. We are told that nowadays we can relate everything to safety within the plant, the employees and so on. Who would dare to question the right and power of the employees to report on devious practices within their own plant? The fact is, as has been referred to in this debate, the preparation of some foodstuffs – as shown, for example, in the  programme – has been quite disgraceful. I do not believe that employees in those plants would be courageous enough and willing to report these practices to authority. Therefore, we need independent inspectors; we do not need to remove them from the meat and veal sector. If we are wise in this regard, we will stick to the principle that beyond the HACCP system there always needs to be independent inspection of last resort. The consumer demands it, public safety requires it. We all applaud the coming of the second age of railways, and acknowledge that market liberalisation can continue with economic opportunity and public service needs to bring it about. The UK invented railways, developed them and was the first to privatise them. As a member of the Rail Maritime and Transport Union in Britain my view is guided by the balance we strike in railway development. We should have acknowledged here that European railway systems are all different, and their diversity merits the derogations proposed. We should have placed greater emphasis on the introduction of rail regulators, as the UK now has, and less on the ideology of physical separation of infrastructure and operating services. And we need to be absolutely certain that we have licensing systems which carry obligations, and network benefits for passengers. No one should have ignored these issues in the vote we cast today. – Mr President, it is the duty of this Parliament and this Commission to protect the health of all citizens of the European Union. That is what we are trying to do in this report, on which I congratulate Mrs Paulsen. Certainly the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy was the correct committee to bring these proposals forward in view of what we have heard. We have had to learn lessons from the dioxin scandal. The Commission has now proposed deleting the derogation for compound foodstuffs and having the option of fixing action thresholds below the maximum permitted limits in cases of real emergency. Like the rapporteur, I believe that there is a case for doing all these things and for looking at the substances she referred to when they are not in themselves toxic but show increases in the aggregated levels. Animal feed, which has proven to be unsafe, should certainly be removed from the food chain. That is not just a precaution, it is common sense. I want to sound one note of caution. Common sense has two sides. If we are going to propose that, for example, there should be a tenfold reduction in the materials which are permitted to enter the European Union for blending down by approved food manufacturers, we ought to be certain that there is a sound scientific basis for that proposal. The Commissioner will know that in my country the Independent Advisory Committee on Animal Feedingstuffs was worried that such a ban may actually drive out blending-down procedures into the world outside the EU where they are less likely to be correctly monitored and controlled for any future entry into the Union. The committee agreed that there needed to be upper limits for undesirable ingredients, above which the materials would have to be destroyed. By the second reading we need to have the Commission's view on how the risk assessment will be carried out. That is a very simple request which is not connected with any specific amendment proposed this first reading. It may well determine, however, how we can vote at that stage. I suspect it will also determine how we are able to make the case which the Commission quite properly wants to make for clean food in Europe, outside the European Union, to those third country exporters who will be affected by the new levels and to the WTO, if any challenges to what we are doing are mounted there. We look forward to hearing from the Commission how it will demonstrate that its response here is not only precautionary – which it clearly is – but also proportionate. – Mr President, for those of us who have sat through the discussions in this conciliation, Mr Ebner's comments have come as a welcome and positive contribution to our deliberations. For those of us who have to explain back home how this Parliament influences legislation, the timetable and content of the general product safety directive could be something of a model. Progress here has been relatively swift; the Commission proposal submitted 15 months ago has now gone through every stage, with all of the three parts which make up the triangle of forces involved now having made their own distinctive contributions. Secondly, as regards Parliament, there is the rapporteur. Mrs González Álvarez has taken a consistent, thorough and dedicated line throughout the passage of this legislation through Parliament. She has known when to hold firm and when to make concessions. Those of us who have felt that occasionally we did not prevail when we should, owe it to her that the door is open for further and better changes after these initial steps. Twenty-one of our thirty amendments have been accepted by the Council. I am particularly grateful, in respect of the UK, for the clarified exemption for charity shops and street markets from the obligation to provide information on origin, which would have been beyond them. This was not a Community-wide problem, but in countries like the Irish Republic and Britain it mattered very greatly, and much good has been done by the clarification provided. We have the clear recognition now of the precautionary principle itself. There was an uncommon delay before the other institutions were prepared even to write this into the preambles, but they have done so and it is now one of the markers which will guide us as we look at how product safety legislation develops. We were not as successful as I would have wanted on withdrawal and recall, and we shall return to that and other matters later. It is important that we should be required to consider the safety of services and to examine proposals to this end in reasonably quick time. In this we were simply holding the Commission to a principle which it supported in theory, but must now deliver in practice by 2003. At the same time, we shall have to look hard at the failure to ban the export of unsafe products to the rest of the world, as the rapporteur has said, and the nature of the safety indications which imported products have to carry. One has only to look at the CE mark to see the imperfections there. This was one step forward, but an important one. I congratulate the rapporteur. She has certainly earned our quality mark in these debates. – Mr President, if I could echo other colleagues from all parties and indeed national groups who have said that the time for talking is now perilously short. We all, Commissioner, whilst saluting the way in which you have maintained your negotiating position, expect you to tell us that it is not indefinite – and neither is your patience. You have a mandate from every party and group in this House to tackle the problem of the increasing pollution of the skies and the damage to the lives of those who live around airports as a result of the current situation. There is a belief still that the endless expansion of air traffic is an unmitigated good, that everyone gains from it. They do not. There are social limits to growth and to how much we can enjoy even something as life expanding and enhancing as travel. We heard many threats and some bluster from the United States last year, when it looked as though hushkitted aircraft and Chapter 3 planes would be leaving our skies, perhaps in the year 2002. But Europe as a whole suffers problems, particularly those who live around airports who suffer not only noise pollution, but also aircraft emission pollution with consequences for the environment. We must see the beginning of change. In the East Midlands of the United Kingdom, where I live, a number of small new airports are coming into being. Many of them are desperate to compete with 'through-the-night' traffic. This means air traffic using older aircraft, which are going to stagger on for another few years, if they are allowed to, with few controls on how they operate. Obviously, that is something on which the Member States can act. Unless there is a framework for taking older aircraft out of service, we will never have the degree of control we need. I join with other colleagues who have spoken. Mrs Lucas put it very lucidly for us all – in saying that if there is a failure to agree in September we should not just leave the matter there and agree that we tried and failed. This House does not want the Commissioner to fail, we want her to succeed. If we are telling her so rather bluntly, it is in a friendly spirit. – Mr President, I too, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, fervently congratulate Mrs Sanders-ten Holte on her report, which has certainly adopted the spirit of the amendments we brought in. Those amendments were directed to the improvement of Regulation 2027/97 and to the consumer rights which should be asserted. I therefore particularly want to speak in support of Amendments Nos 1, 4, 8, 13 and 18, which have that effect. The previous speaker, from my own country – we at least carry the same passport, though we have different views – referred to the situation in the UK. It is true that IATA brought the UK government to court in terms of the possible extension of powers beyond what the legal position allows. Judge Jowitt ruled that conflict did indeed exist between the Regulation and the Warsaw Convention. But I would point out to my British colleague that he agreed with the UK government that Article 234 of the Treaty did in fact render this conflict invalid. The Regulation was therefore held to be valid. IATA lost their challenge and no other referral has been made to the European Court of Justice on this matter. I therefore regard this as a legal red herring and I would prefer to concentrate on the merits of Mrs Sanders-ten Holte's proposals because they will give the consumer travelling by air rights which have been lost for a long time. The Warsaw Convention is 70 years of age. If you now find yourself stuck in an airport, with your baggage gone, your flight delayed, or perhaps cannibalised, you get this little piece of paper which tells you what your rights are under the Warsaw Convention. Those rights are negligible. What we are doing here is extending a body of practice which will allow us to protect consumers. That is what we should be doing tonight. – Commissioner, would you agree that it is of paramount importance that we have a European solution to this problem and would you accept our congratulations that you have put your best efforts towards that in the events over the weekend. Nevertheless, would you not agree that since the unanimous confirmation of the safety of the date-based export scheme, provided you personally endorse it in this House, as I hope you will, there is a very limited area for clarification of what more can be done. Would you not accept that some of the issues now raised by the technical experts – and I particularly refer here to labelling, to improved diagnostic tests and so on – are incremental improvements in safety measures for Europe as a whole. They are not a replacement or a supplement needed for the date-based export scheme. If that is the case, would you not further agree that the debate about the safety of British beef ought to be concluded by 10 November next and on Wednesday, if the Commission has no word on that matter, will you bring forward, regrettable as they are, the legal proceedings which are then overdue? – Mr President, I congratulate Mrs Paulsen very warmly on her diligence and skill in bringing through another complex piece of food safety legislation. She always manages to steer between national positions and never loses sight of that corpus of food safety legislation which we are slowly bringing together. I would like to look at the very wide definition of catering waste in the annexes and in Amendments 22 to 25. I will leave aside the feeding of carrion birds because I wish to look at a different form of carrion, that is the catering waste represented both by the recycled swill in some countries and by recycled cooking oils in others, including my own. Catering swill arouses deep misgivings in my country because of the role it played in the recent foot and mouth epidemic. Cooking oil is seen to be a problem after the dioxin scandals of recent years. The rapporteur has brought the two together in a complex series of amendments culminating in No 25, which I will support. I acknowledge her efforts. The UK's problem, as Mr Goodwill has mentioned, is that we need to have an effective and rewarded system of collecting used catering oils for fuel – not feed – reuse. That will take time. If no other outlet is provided, users will dump it in drains and ponds. They will become sumps of noxious material. One constituent demonstrated to me in the most vivid terms what exactly those consequences will be. Therefore, Commissioner, we really would like a statement of intent on whether the four-year transition period is achievable. I hope it is; otherwise, good intentions will founder here for sure and the old saying that the best can be the enemy of the good will be vindicated. – Mr President, I support both the line of the proposals which have come from our colleague Mrs Roth-Behrendt and the objective which many people in Parliament have been trying to achieve for the past ten years. No other issue has taken Parliament so long to deal with as that of animal testing in the matter of cosmetic products. So I think the message that should go back to the Member States is that this Parliament believes that, until we get serious, the industry will not get truly serious. I accept that there are a large number of areas where there is cause for concern in terms of medical research and extremely difficult and serious tests for which no valid alternatives have yet been produced. But I remain convinced that, unless we are able to send a clear signal by reasserting the position we took at first reading, there will not be that incentive that comes from the clear knowledge that these sanctions are there and will be implemented. The test ban and the marketing ban have not been complied with. We cannot afford further delays. I would say to everyone, including the Member States who tried very hard to bring us a common position that we could accept, we still have to try harder. The answer is to send a signal at second reading, so that the rapporteur and our colleagues of all parties have the strongest possible negotiating position when we come to one of the most serious processes of conciliation we have ever had in this Parliament. . – Mr President, this is a moment of some importance for consumer protection in the European Union. The institutions of the Union have come together to set out the principles of food law in the shape of a new authority which can safeguard the food we eat and the way it is produced. You cannot have the one without the other. To those who say we have gone too fast and that the Commission or the Council are urging us to move too quickly during this presidency, I would say simply that we are repairing the neglect of decades in which the very variety and self-sufficiency of our foodstuffs hid great disasters, from BSE, to dioxins, to some of the scourges of the present day. It is the particular task of this Parliament to refine and specify the proposal from the Commission, that is, to remind citizens and stakeholders alike exactly what we are intending to do to safeguard all parts of the food chain, at whatever point we happen to be in it, from primary producers through to ultimate consumers. We all have a stake in the kind of food that is circulated in Europe, how it is produced, how it is prepared and ultimately how it is checked. This authority is primarily concerned with food safety. That is why our committee strongly supported the change of title. We believe it is necessary because there must be clear but also limited and targeted ambitions for this authority. They must relate to what it is able to do in terms of its remit and also in terms of its budget, and not in terms of all of the other ambitions that might be piled upon it by those who wish it to do a variety of different things. Everything has to be seen through this focus. I would say to some of my colleagues in the committee who moved a variety of amendments aimed at the further restyling of the title of this authority: the priorities are set out in the report as amended. If you want a proper reference to hygiene or to nutrition or to quality or to our affection for traditional foods, as some of the amendments have proposed, my answer would be: look in the report. They are all there in due measure. But they are not there in the title. They are not in themselves the primary function of this new authority. I owe a great debt to my colleagues of all parties in the committee. The report was passed in the Committee on the Environment by 40 votes to 0 with 2 abstentions. The large number of amendments which we shall put forward today in blocked groups reflects the degree of consensus that we ourselves reached. Here I also owe a debt to the Commission for its help, to the Swedish Presidency, which has taken this through with a commendable sense of urgency, and most of all to my own parliamentary assistant, Michele Smyth who has laboured tirelessly on all of this. I should like to raise some of the salient points about which there will still be argument and upon which a number of the amendments have been based. Should the new authority be appointed on the basis of ability and merit, through a full process of scrutiny, or should it be by the old road of quiet nomination? We go for merit every time. We go for openness. We go for transparency. The Member States will play a full role through the continuum of the advisory forum. They do not need to be in a position where, proportionally, they plant their flags around every seat at the new authority's table. We do not think that the authority should be responsible for the rapid alert system. We think ultimate responsibility must rest with the Commission. The authority should be financed entirely from the budget, on which this Parliament can share the decisions. The EUR 44 million envisaged is a fairly small sum, compared to other European agencies. It is only one third of the budget which the British Food Standards Agency had at its inception. There are amendments, including some from the Committee on Budgets, which I would support, suggesting that we take in hand the precise financing of this agency ourselves. My final point is about the site of the new authority. There are those who would like it to be determined by codecision involving this Parliament. There are those who think it should be decided ultimately by the Council on a proposal by the Commission with the assent of this Parliament. My own view is that we should have a free vote on this, because it seems to me that those in the House who wish to take the codecision route have a right to vote for it. My own scepticism remains. I think we should take the traditional route, on this issue at least. I commend this report to the House. This is an idea which has not so much found its time as found us at precisely the right moment. I hope the House will support it in the vote. – Commissioner, I would like to say that it takes real courage to tackle the substantial vested interest in the way that you have. Particularly when that interest is one that can plead consequences right across Europe in terms of our economic viability. Please do not let Europe's consumers down with undue delay in view of what you may have heard today. The principle of unripe time is always there to slow things down. New entrants to a multi-choice free-for-all will always be demonised as too rich or too unscrupulous. The fact of the matter is that we have never been able to bring about greater competition in any area, and I include the airlines, without some rich people and some people varied in their approach coming into a market which is being opened up. The small dealer is being invoked as a victim here, but he has much to gain from a reform of franchising, as Mrs Villiers has said. The choice we expect from any other sophisticated personal equipment, the competition we look for in the maintenance of our houses, our computers and, yes indeed, our second-hand cars, is condemned here. It should not be. This is a widening of choice. Commissioner, you should listen to what is said in this debate, but you probably have more support here than the debate itself will disclose. Stick to it! – Mr President, my group takes a rather different view from that of the last speaker. We believe that it is right for Parliament to be consulted. We believe that in a number of areas which are contentious – for example, the dangers of non-ionising radiation – not enough is known within the science for us to pass this by. My group will also support the amendment, which other colleagues and I have signed in the name of the Socialist Group, for the deletion of paragraph 4. Why do we do that? Not because we necessarily disagree with the Scientific Committee on the issue of whether radiation can be safe for foodstuffs, but because it is not the whole story. The question is, why is this being done? Is it really for the benefit of the consumer? Is it something for which there is a consumer demand? If that was the case, we would not have as many cases as there are, certainly in my country, of illegal and covert irradiation. This has been carried out because they do not want consumers to know about it. They particularly do not want people to know about and reflect upon the trade which is more concerned with cost-cutting than with the end product in terms of consumer satisfaction. Mrs Breyer referred to shrimps being taken from one market to another, peeled in one continent and brought back to another. This is not due to safety concerns or the attractiveness of the product: it is all about the profits that go into this business. In the light of the Commission's options as presented, we, like the rapporteur, take the view that the list should not be further extended at this stage. The onus of proof continues to be on those who wish to do these things. The proof has not yet been provided. – Madam President, I should like first to apologise to the Commissioner for having been called out of the Chamber while he was speaking. Eighty years ago there was a link between major wars, disasters and a pandemic. No one knows at this stage exactly what will be the nature, and the possible spread, of the SARS disease. It appears to be resistant to treatment by antibiotics, to have a variable development and not necessarily to follow the course one would expect in terms of the vulnerability of the patients concerned. Healthy people are succumbing as fast as, or faster than, the very old and the very young. In these circumstances you, Commissioner, are now facing for the first time on the human front what you have faced three or four times in terms of animal diseases. Most of us in this House, like Mrs Malliori who has just spoken, will be looking now in this grave crisis for the setting-up of something like a rapid alert system bringing together all the preventive measures which the European Union countries can carry out themselves. As Mrs Malliori has just said, if – despite all the tragic possibilities – we can see this as an opportunity to bring closer together in some form of European health centre the process of monitoring and analysing this threat, which is certainly more serious and less known than anything we have seen in recent years, then that at least will mean that some good comes out of this problem. Thanks to the analysis of the data from Asia which have come to the Commissioner so far, we now know sufficient about the nature of the outbreak in Guangdong province last year, and the degree to which that may have gone through a cycle of its own which can now be analysed, to have some idea of how the disease should be captured and isolated here in Western Europe. It looks as though there are a number of peculiarities to this disease and I would hope that, being still relatively free from it, we can analyse in depth the cases that have arrived in the European Union. We are better placed than most to turn this into an epidemic which is curable, and not a pandemic which threatens us all. – Mr President, I brought my carrots with me but wisely I did not, like Mrs Thyssen, attempt to eat them, although both would have passed the Lannoye test. I never believed that my last speech in this House in the twentieth century would be about sodium alginates. But I could have bet that it would be in reply to a debate initiated by Mr Lannoye because he is an indefatigable champion of the consumer in matters great and small. In my humble opinion these matters are relatively small – perhaps as small as these pieces of carrot. I confess that I have some personal doubts about the dangers of E-401 but the dangers are not really, in the end, what this is about. Our food authority in the UK has argued at length to me that sodium alginate is harmless, permitted in the US and many countries, has been around since the 1930s and, as far as laxatives are concerned, has less effect than we would find in fruit or cereal fibre and infinitely less than you would get from a mouthful of seaweed in a Japanese restaurant. So much for the scientific approach. Why then do I support Mr Lannoye? And my comrades in the PSE Group will do the same. For several reasons, and this is where he performs such a singular service in our debates. Firstly, he says: "What is the consumer benefit?” We can see the manufacturer's benefit that this piece of carrot stays orange and does not turn grey. But what is the consumer benefit in that? Secondly, where is the preparedness of industry to come forward and accept that some of the many additives we have can be struck off? Nobody says that. Nobody comes to tell us. Until they do we should support Mr Lannoye and his amendments and wish him a happy New Year. Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Thors for this report and all her work on it. It confirms my already high opinion of her parliamentary talents. She will be a sad loss to this Parliament when she goes back go Finland. Here we have an active and intelligent packaging of a Commission proposal. It has received broad support in our committees and in the responses from the Council and the Commission, which I found to be entirely constructive. If we could do this more often, everybody's life would be simpler. However, there were certain questions that we had to raise. One was the extent to which traceability would be possible. I am glad that Mrs Thors took on board my own amendments. I accept her advice that we should not vote for Amendment No 17. Had she told me to go the other way, I would have done. I believe that the issue of public openness on this matter is one we should take into account. Another point that some of us are slightly concerned about – and it comes up time after time in these debates – is the precise role of the European Food Safety Authority. Time after time the mantra comes up that there will be a reference to EFSA, that it will do this or that. We were due to have heard from the chief executive of EFSA this week. That has been postponed. Where we are moving towards greater food safety, safer food packaging, better labelling and so on, we should not require EFSA to do all the work. Where there is a measure of derogation built into this, all of the Member States seem to be reasonably happy with it. Where the Commission has done a good job, we should move ahead and see how far the existing institutions can do it for themselves. I wish this report well and equally Mrs Thors. I congratulate her on this report. .  Mr President, as this Parliament enlarges, Commissioner, you and I get physically further apart, but we are drawn closer together by the consequence of enlargement, which is that consumer protection is a prime concern now for a Community of 450,000,000 people. Tonight, the House has the opportunity to carry through an agreement at first reading, which will guarantee that support for consumers' activities. It came to us a little late but we have made good progress. I would particularly like to thank you, Commissioner, for the effort you made to get here tonight, after the lengthy day you have had, and also for the work of your staff. I would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their solidarity which includes their presence here tonight, my own assistant Laura Sullivan, the consumer NGOs and the Council Presidency, all of whom have brought us to a position where we can tonight demonstrate that the total support in Council is overwhelmingly replicated in Parliament. We are presenting about thirty-one compromise amendments en bloc, all of which have involved give and take. If passed, the second bloc of amendments to the fifteen original ones would fall. That would leave about five remaining amendments which I would advise the House to vote down. I will deal with those last. These compromises reflect the consensus view that we need to widen the scale and the proportionate limit of support for consumer activities. We stand on the brink of enlargement and all the diverse needs that will follow from it. We have had to find legally sound ways to extend those provisions up to 2007, in cooperation with our friends and colleagues on the Committee on Budgetary Control. We also acknowledge that small - but equally deserving - applicants have been disadvantaged in the past by the arcane nature and length of the assessment process. The converse also applies. We need to be certain of the rules, qualifications and funding of all applicants, however obscure. Events unfolding today before other committees suggest that this caution is necessary. The Commission has told us that it accepts with good grace the requirement to supply an assessment of applications within three months. When that is not possible, we will be told why. I am glad that the Commissioner has stressed that his best endeavours and those of his team will go towards making early consideration of all these applications as effective as possible and that there will be seminars and other instruction particularly for those making applications for the first time and, sometimes, from a country which is itself a new Member State. It is an anomaly that we are having to discuss the pressing needs of enlargement at a time when, technically, we cannot consider the budget that we know must be used for that purpose post 2004. This is a first reading which can result in instant agreement between the three institutions if we all accept that none of the three have been pushed beyond their limits. The Commissioner knows that there has been a certain exasperation over some of the committees that have been set up and the discussions that have been held about consumer protection, not just in this institution but elsewhere too. We have to accept the limits of what we can do in saying who can meet where and do what in relation to consumer advice. My colleagues have wisely decided on that score that they would not push some of the amendments that came before the Committee, although we support and indeed sometimes salute the principles that inspired them. I have to say to my good friend, colleague and namesake Mr Bushill-Matthews that his Amendment No 11 is an amendment too far. I supported it in the Committee because I felt that we needed to make this point: there is exasperation where sometimes - and the Commission I think accepts this as the case - applications have not been considered not just within three or four months, as the Commission would have preferred, but within five months and beyond. The worst offenders are not DG SANCO. Indeed, some of the examples Mr Bushill-Matthews gave come from other directorates-general. The point however stands, we need to improve on it and we need to be able to demonstrate a greater responsiveness on the part of the Commission. I hope Mr Bushill-Matthews will tell us tonight with his customary subtlety that he understands the position we are in. In conclusion, this is a modest proposal. The Commissioner will understand that I do not mean this in a Swiftian sense. We are not devouring our children; we are nourishing them with this proposal. I hope it is commended by everybody in the House. – Mr President, I also wish to endorse and praise the work of Mrs Roth-Behrendt and Mr Böge on this issue and the initial proposals from the Commission. Safety must be a priority and we all understand that if we are to have equal precautions throughout the Member States, we need a variety of measures in place which have not so far been instituted. Commissioner Byrne is to be congratulated on moving that closer. These proposals take us a good deal further down the line in the field of diagnostic testing, in a more sceptical attitude to animals which ought to have been under suspicion but in some Member States were not, and in terms of the general prospect of fallen stock being tested for the possibility of BSE. I want to say something, however, coming from the Member State which first suffered the full rigours of BSE and which has also, as a result of that, been in the vanguard of cleaning up this problem. We have now had for a considerable period of time in the United Kingdom an over-30-month cull of all animals which have been taken out of the food chain. We have been able to tackle the problem of the possibility of maternal transmission by also taking out those animals that might be at risk because of their ancestry. From our position, given the measures we take, we do not see any reason at all why we would need to introduce, additionally, whole-herd slaughter of the kind done in some other countries. We are being asked not just for a belt-and-braces policy but also to buy a new pair of trousers just in case. This would cost a great deal of money. It would not remove a single additional suspect case of BSE. I would remind those present that, with our additional safety measures, we in the UK are only exporting to the Community de-boned carcasses which have gone through maximum checks and security. In the circumstances, therefore, there are a number of amendments tabled by a variety of Members in the United Kingdom which I would commend in this debate. I should be very glad to hear whether the Commissioner feels he can accept that in some circumstances – particularly in view of the over-30-month cull in the United Kingdom – for those countries which are admittedly very high risk but also with a very high level of precaution now in place a certain number of derogations are necessary and would be satisfactory to him. I sincerely hope so. – Just in order to concentrate the minds of the Member States, can we ask what the Commission, and indeed the SVC, have concluded as a result of the tests which have been carried out in Switzerland with regard to the number of animals, either by number or proportion, which have entered the human food chain? – Madam President, I should like to add my congratulations and conclude with a warning. I congratulate Mrs Roth-Behrendt, who has achieved so much over this long process. Perhaps if she had known at the outset the scale of the obstructions and difficulties, she would not have achieved so much. It helps sometimes to be a little ignorant of the difficulties. This proposal puts animal welfare above human vanity, but never above human health. It sets time limits, graduated in accordance with the difficulties involved, and it sets new standards of reference which should and will be respected. I also want to thank the Commission for carrying out its intermediary role, mindful of law and precedent, but also of the strong views of this Parliament which have been echoed here under three different Commissions, for more than ten years. To come to this final conclusion is an enormous satisfaction for all of us. My colleagues on the Conciliation Committee expressed the long frustrations of this process in that last marathon session. It was literally at the eleventh hour that we achieved the result that all desired. A new model strip cartoon has just been distributed to Members showing how exciting the work of the European Parliament is, with glamorous young male and female characters. If there is another edition of this series, it should deal with the long night with Mrs Roth-Behrendt at the end of these proceedings. I also want to thank the Danish presidency. One often sees a presidency looking at a problem firmly in the eye, and then running away. The Danes knew that they could get a deal and they got it – through great skill in my opinion. This was a deal – I want to say this before going on to a word of warning – that meets Parliament's principal concerns. It sticks. It is a signal for action, and not an argument for delay. The animal welfare organisations which campaigned tirelessly for this outcome should not complain about the compromise that we achieved. The spotlight is now on compliance, with a provision to find alternative tests, especially in the most difficult areas of toxicity. None of us should make any apologies for how we came to be in this place today. I am personally proud of the fact that the rapporteur got us through this procedure and it enhances the reputation of Parliament, not merely for its procedures but also for their effectiveness. Mr President, I also support the rapporteurs and all who have worked hard for this compromise proposal. There is always a danger that a trialogue before second reading will turn into a kind of Bermuda triangle of lost hopes and failed expectations. That has not happened in this case, and we can all accept the achievements that we have. Everyone has sacrificed something to find a balance. I accept that the failure to accommodate the Doha amendments, the further recognition of homeopathic medicines and the limited extension of data exclusivity for switch products will leave some here with heavy hearts. It is when I turn to the third report on veterinary medicinal products – which the Commissioner dealt with briefly – that I confess to some further anxiety. Again, I support the compromise amendments: they enhance the EMEA, they recognise some limits to the status of prescription-only medicines, which we all support and welcome, and they allow options in relation to the centralised procedure. Nevertheless, they could go further in acknowledging the position of some Member States, including my own, where routine medicines are used by qualified persons, but not veterinarians. Amendment No 27 would have allowed an explicit derogation to allow this to continue, alongside prescription-only medicines. The Commission indicated before second reading that Amendment No 27 was acceptable in principle - it was not to the Council. Nevertheless, I hope to hear from the Commissioner, when he winds up this debate, that there will be a subtle and consensual solution to this dilemma that will be in the spirit of compromise and of the Christmas season as well. – Mr President, I want to thank the rapporteur for the way in which he has approached this complex issue and his willingness to entertain a wide range of reservations across the Committee and where possible to approach these efficaciously; and also my colleague, Mrs Van Brempt, for her work on this. I have only time to deal with one specific area, and it does not in any sense detract from my belief that the effective regulation of dangerous pesticides must be a priority task of this Parliament, and, indeed, this Commission. My reservations lie in the section addressed by Paragraph 13 of Mr Lannoye's report, where we are calling on the Commission to notify us by the end of this year of the measures taken to ensure that useful substances which have low toxicity levels, and appear on Priority Lists 3 and 4, which have not been notified because of a limited commercial interest, or of high evaluation costs, may be so evaluated with the help of an appropriate restricted data package. Why am I so concerned about this? I am concerned because there is a danger that some products of high toxicity which have not yet been regulated or properly examined, are still remaining in the market, whilst others, which are of no conceivable danger and are very low on Lists 3 and 4, are going to be taken out of the market because those who produce them, and they do indeed in some cases come into the category of essential uses, are likely to be unable to produce the complex dossier needed to go through all of the processes initially set out in what, as the rapporteur says, has been an extraordinarily slow process. I just want to give the Committee one example of this:  arguments are always dangerous, but I have a producer in my own area who turned to a particular plant protection range of products because he was himself alarmed by the effect of dangerous pesticides as he had seen them. If I talk of things like Agent Orange, you will know exactly what I mean. Truly harmful substances. He has produced a product, which I use myself, called Armilatox which is the only effective way of treating plant diseases like Honey Fungus. There is no way he could pay the estimated cost for the assessment of that product which is in a low toxicity range. It would be two or three times his annual turnover. There has to be some way in which we could help people of this kind come up to the standard necessary, or at least present the relevant dossier over the period of time we now have. If we do not do that, we are flying in the face of all the statements in this House, not least by the rapporteur'sparty, that we should help small businesses. We should not just help the big battalions who can, of course, accept all of the high evaluation costs. If we do not do that in this very important area, we will have failed. – Mr President, I welcome this directive and Mr Nisticò's elegant improvement of its direction. We have had our arguments – indeed, we have had some today – but not about this. Herbal remedies are bought and trusted by millions and by many of us here. Their use goes back over millennia. This directive allows the basic registration of traditional remedies. It should be generous in its interpretation of how and where this traditional use established the safety requirements that are necessary. Equally, the use of these products in combination with others, including drugs, requires scrupulous attention to the possible side-effects where they may occur. This basic safety requirement is a modest proposal indeed. Professional herbal practice associations and consumer groups support it across Europe. All it requires is that we know about quality and content. The better the product, the more the maker should welcome this directive. What is in it? What will it do for me? These are questions asked by consumers, which you would indeed ask of anything you took – even a wine gum. The fact is that we are here now facing a very simple process and yet there are petitions, paranoid talk of plots and industrial lobbies mimicking consumer concerns. What do they fear? The European Medical Control Agency has estimated that in the UK, for example, out of 207 notified substances, all but 2 or 3 would sail through the process of registration without the expensive proof required for chemicals. I would ask this industrial lobby, which has embarrassed many herbalists, are your own products so safe and legal? Or could they too be adulterated, irradiated or substituted? How many tests have been conducted on side-effects? How many off-the-shelf shops offer expert advice? When the Consumers' Association in Britain tested this out on a random sample of 30, only 5 were able to offer knowledge in terms of the recommendations they made. This is an opportunity to blend tradition and the modern rediscovery of ancient skills. It gives the consumer a wider choice and offers expansion for the quality producer. Let us welcome it. – Mr President, I want to congratulate Mrs Fourtou on this important report. It is important both in terms of the functioning of the single market and, most importantly, for the protection of consumers. It is right that we should focus on the way in which counterfeiting is growing between the Member States, within the single market, as well as beyond the frontiers of the European Union. The consumer can be conned by counterfeiting in all circumstances very easily but it is always a menace. It is a menace because the counterfeit product carries none of the necessary guarantees of safety and quality which come from a product which the manufacturer can stand by and endorse. It can be dangerous to health. It can certainly be dangerous to innovation. It can be dangerous for the future of research. There is very little to be said for the counterfeiter except that, at best, he or she is a parasite upon productive industry. This is not a victimless crime. We are talking about things that seriously damage the marketplace. For that reason, the Environment and Consumer Policy Committee takes much the same line as the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee in supporting and endorsing this report. Naturally the point we would wish to make in conclusion, however, is that in protection of the consumer, the provision of information must involve consumer organisations within the Member States themselves. They are best placed to pick up some of the worst scams which now prevail and inform the public that what may, at first sight, appear to be a bargain, is really a snare and delusion. My second point has been touched upon by the previous speaker. It is this: there are those who would say that this debate embraces the debate about copyright and trademarks. These must be kept separate. A number of amendments from the political groups and the committees have tried to make this clear. There is a debate going on – and the Commissioner knows perfectly well about this – about parallel imports and whether these are now being used in some cases in a way which is damaging to trade, anti-competitive and against the interests of the consumer. We do not want to see these two debates confused. What we are attacking here in this proposal, and quite rightly, is those who, by the parasitic practice of counterfeiting, batten upon the public, confuse and deceive it and can sometimes actually damage society in the process. – Mr President, quite often a parliamentary colleague is given a report and you envy him or her. By the time the report is presented you envy them no more. That is not the case with Mr Bowis. He has carried this whole debate through with considerable elegance, charm and willingness to compromise, which is why the committee was able to adopt 12 compromise amendments, supported by almost all the political groups. We have a stark reminder this week of why we are all here and why this legislation is going through in the report in my own country – the Phillips Committee of Inquiry into the disaster, indeed scandal, of BSE. That came about in our national herd because of negligence and the indictment against those responsible, civil servants as well as ministers, will be set out for the world to see tomorrow. It will not be a day when we look with any particular pride at the procedures we then had. Those procedures have now been amended and changed and we have our own Food Standards Agency. To have such a body introduced in the European Parliament as part of a raft of similar measures, which will increase our concern and care for food safety in the European Union, is a good outcome to what has been a sad tale. I will mention briefly the key amendments which I commend to the House and the Commissioner and which I hope we can see voted through today. Obviously the title is important and Mr Bowis has accepted that. This has to be called an "authority" because in English and most other languages, that conveys a body which has the power and ability from time to time in the process of risk assessment to use its best judgment and not merely to be the agent of what others would wish it to do. One of the amendments that was passed allowed it to issue own-initiative reports. On the still vexed question of how far we should go in allowing it to look at nutrition, and indeed to offer advice and to be consulted by those whose primary concern is risk management, we have also said that where the issue of safety is involved, these issues also should at least be within the remit of the opinion and the advice of this food standards authority. We have also said that the national food safety agencies and the consumer bodies in the Member States of the European Union should be fully consulted in the processes we are now embarked upon. That is because we need to carry right across the European Union the full support and weight of the public, the stakeholders and indeed, of course, the Member States for this authority. That means that they have to accept that the rapid alert system must be improved immediately and extended to animal feed. Yet again this week we have had another example, with infected beef in France finding its way on to the shelves of , of how hard it is to catch those who have scant regard for food safety issues. We want the EFSA to have a board which has a balanced representation of people in consumer affairs, public health and all possible areas of scientific and agricultural knowledge. We want them to be people whom we can respect and who can declare their interest. Of course many of them will have had links with the food industry, links with science elsewhere. That is understandable and natural, but we need to know how and who and where and we should be able to do so. We want an annual report to this House and we want the director, when he or she is appointed, to be available to the Committee on the Environment and indeed the Agriculture Committee and to this House in general to report back. When that has happened I would say there is one last thing we must do. We must wait patiently for the Commission to come forward with legislation on other matters in the food safety area – PCB standards, food labelling, allergy labelling, action on nutrition policy and the amending legislation we need for processed baby foods and infant formulae. These things are inextricably linked with what the food authority will be doing. Finally, we will also be supporting a number of the new amendments, certainly Amendments Nos 11-13, 7-9 and we wish to have a free vote on Amendment No 14. We consider some of the others superfluous, but generally speaking the broad consensus there has been throughout in this House on this report should be carried through into the vote. – Mr President, Mrs Echerer, having kept us all informed on a subject which too often is relegated to the sidelines of our debates here, has shown herself to be a late night performer deserving of her intellectual property and of successive royalties. I have to declare an interest: as a broadcaster and a film producer in my time, I am still in receipt of hard-won royalties of one kind or another from some of these activities. We are looking today in the world from which I emerged, at a situation where diversity of output is growing and where the power of those who control that output and buy the rights in it is also growing. Those who currently do not have a negotiated position for more than one payment for their own activities are the losers in all of that. For those in the audio-visual sector, this is a situation which has worsened, not improved. As the questioner pointed out, music performers have a very strong union which over the years has been able to protect their position. For producers there is now some degree of recompense and this can be negotiated over time. No such rights apply in the case of audio-visual performers. We know precisely what they face because without the protection of treaty they are constantly confronting a larger power - one which has all the power and all the regiments of lawyers you could possibly want - which can smash them down. It took the great artist Peggy Lee nearly 20 years to outface the Disney Corporation to receive continuing payments for the voiceovers that she had done for some Disney cartoon films. If it took her that long because she had no power of treaty to support her, what happens to the unknown and obscure artist who is placed in the position which the questioner has raised tonight? I have one final question which perhaps will not be answered now, but which will recur in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport. We know that on the eve of the WIPO informal meeting, we have one further chance to address this matter in September. What happens if those negotiations fail, as the last ones and the ones before that failed? What is the Commission going to do then? Are we going to persist with this issue, or are we going to lay it aside with a regretful sigh while the power of those who own the rights and jealously maintain them is extended, and while the audio-visual artists remain confined in the shadows? – Mr President, there is much to be welcomed in the Commissioner's statement, in particular its acknowledgement of the role of the grey market in bringing prices down, the use of the Internet, car supermarkets in the proper trade in spare parts and servicing. There is one question I have to ask. It looks as if in different national markets exclusivity can be maintained in a position which could be anti-competitive. How wide, in a given national market, could these exclusive deals with the dealer networks remain? – Madam President, the Commissioner is in danger of hearing the same speech many times in different languages. This is the English version. I am speaking here on behalf of Mrs Roth-Behrendt, as her father died yesterday and she has had to return home. I am sure the whole House will join me in expressing sympathy to her. These are the things I want to say. First and foremost, we still do not know enough about BSE and about how it is spread. We certainly do not know enough about its incidence in all the Member States of the Community. We know that we still have it in the UK and although in the coming year it may be that other Member States have more cases than us, that is not a cause for satisfaction for us, but rather for commiseration with those who are still discovering the full horror of what this may mean for them. In the UK we have had over a hundred cases of the human form of CJD. We pray that other Member States will not go through that agony either. The Commissioner will be entitled to say to us, when we talk about inadequate testing, that the Commission has said time after time that the real truth about BSE was hidden because there was no effective testing. If this debate does one thing at least, as Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf and others have said, it may impress upon us that the Member States need to be able to do this. I am glad that Mr Olsson accepts that there is an equality of effectiveness between the way the UK takes out animals at 30 months and the slaughter of affected herds and testing of individual animals before they enter the food chain in other European countries. I would not want to see any misunderstandings about that. I believe we need more effective checks for contamination. There are some late, worrying statistics in the UK and elsewhere about animals born after the checks were put into effect, which are still now showing symptoms of BSE. There are obvious suspicions about the hoarding of meat and bonemeal and about where and how the testing is effected. Mr Olsson wants the FBO to be in effect the monitoring agency. I do not mind that, but I believe that nothing should subtract from the responsibility of the individual Member States to ensure that their testing and external controls are effective and are carried through. Then there is the question of animal waste to herbivores. We will be debating this when Mrs Paulsen's report comes back for its chequered second reading. I would simply say that I am in that party in this House that believes, with Mr Olsson, that we should outlaw the feeding of animal waste of any form to ruminant animals. It is high time that was done. Finally, on the issue of sheep, I would just say to Mr Olsson that when we look at that lamentable failure over the testing of what turned out to be cows' brains, all that tells us is that there was incompetence of a grotesque kind. It does not tell us that we have proof positive that BSE has not jumped species once again and got into the sheep population. I would like to hear the Commissioner's views on those things and I apologise for repeating some of the other excellent remarks made in this debate. – Mr President, I am grateful to the Commissioner for that information and for some signs of progress in the study of this issue. Would he agree with me that it is a false distinction to draw here, however, between safety in the workplace and safety in the schoolroom or safety for a child working at home? Is it not the case that there should be at least as much consideration given to the safety of people in the latter environment, particularly since, in the time since the 1999 directive came in we know a great deal more about the possible harmful effects of ionising and non-ionising radiation on young people? – Madam President, I want to speak here today as a Member of the European Parliament, and not in terms of nationalist rhetoric. I do not personally believe that British bluster is as exportable or as healthy as British beef. I want to look today at the decisions which have been taken in the light of the Commissioner's earlier statement, to which very few have so far referred. The facts on this matter are quite simple. The decision to lift the ban followed the scrupulous adherence of the UK to the Florence Agreement. When that ban was challenged by the French Food Safety Agency, as they had the right to do, I guess, in terms of their own remit, it was referred to the Scientific Committee, which unanimously endorsed the safety of British beef. That was, as the Commissioner's statement says, "immensely heartening". So what went wrong after that? With the Commissioner's help – and I pay tribute to him, and I can share his sense of exasperation – we went into a process of negotiation when many said we should not. The result of that was the memorandum of 23 November, which we believe was the beginning of the end of this wretched dispute. What happened as a result of that? We got the decision on 9 December by the French Government that it would continue with the ban; and that did come to most of us as a complete surprise. I want to say a word to Mr Jospin, and I do so in no nationalist spirit. I believe that his subsequent briefings on this matter have deepened this dispute in the most serious way. Mr Jospin was a party to the memorandum of agreement, which accepted the date base scheme in its entirety. Now he says he would take, or would have offered to take, some beef from some herds in some parts of the UK, irrespective of the date-based scheme. That is a total misunderstanding of the position as he knows it to be. He has also said that he would rather be crucified by British public opinion than by French public opinion. That is a ludicrous thing for a statesman whom I have always respected to say. The former Prime Minister of France, Mr Mendès-France said:  – you have to make choices. You cannot always drag behind public opinion. Mr Blair took a risk, and I think sensibly so, in taking the route of negotiation when others argued for confrontation, crisis, boycotts and bans. I think he was betrayed by what has happened in the wake of that, and I do not personally believe that is the way to proceed. The alternative, if you are going to choose not what is right but what is popular, is to pursue a process of confrontation between two Member States which threatens this whole institution. We have to be based on the rule of law, we have to be based on some form of arbitration, which allows us at the end to say: "There we are, that is the best opinion we can get. It is unanimously in one direction. Let us endorse it". If we do not do that we are going back to the kind of rhetoric that we have heard from one or two Members in this debate today. Surely this Parliament and this continent have gone beyond the days of Henry V and Joan of Arc? What we need now is a sensible way out of this situation. I would like to end with one question to Commissioner Byrne directly. We do not want this dispute dragging on in the courts for years. Nobody, I think, sensibly does. Therefore, what interim measures can he propose which would make it possible for a temporary lifting of the ban, up to the point where this can be settled between the two governments in an amicable manner? His job is to be an honest broker. I believe he is trying to do it. I think this Parliament should support him in that effort and should talk down those who want to widen the division between our two countries. – Commissioner, you have the melancholy satisfaction of being proved right and that never makes one popular or even happy. The very people and the very Member States who were shrugging off your warnings two years ago, who were denying you a qualified majority, as you said just a few months ago, are now clamouring for compensation and support as the beef market collapses and we face the prospect of millions of animals in store, unsellable, undisposable of over the next two years. In the United Kingdom we see this with some sympathy. People will say to me: Well, yes, you were first. We were first in the whole cycle from complacency to despair and back again. And if today the beef market is sound in Britain and beef consumption is rising, it is only because people have seen how draconian the measures need to be. Every question I now want to ask the Commission comes from that experience. Firstly, the extent of BSE. What are the tests showing? What do the Member States themselves say? We see reports that some countries which claimed a year ago to be BSE-free, now anticipate up 500 cases in the course of the next year. If Europe has fallen into line with the principle of culling animals over 30 months, is that in itself enough? What do the tests and the research findings say about the incidence of the disease in animals younger than 30 months. Thirdly, what capacity do the Member States have for destroying the materials that are now being removed? Which Member States have the incineration capacity? Are some still saying that they will put this material into landfill? These are all serious questions, which we know you will try to answer. We think you should go further and I would just like to echo what my friend Mr Garot said which is that Europe most of all owes you its solidarity. – I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he will personally be involved in the drawing up and implementation of the work plan which is being produced by the European Group on Ethics? If he is, will he take into account the fact that these debates involve matters of urgency as well as fundamental principle? – Mr President, it is always a pleasure to hear a committed rapporteur and a committed Commissioner speaking on their common concern in this matter. That, of course, has made the whole debate briefer because it is not interrogatory. I want to say two things. Firstly, it is extraordinary that a Directive promulgated in 1986 has still not been properly implemented in some Member States. If Ms Evan's report does nothing else, it has brought to our attention the need to speed up the process, because that is at the heart of the reform of our procedures generally: implementation, how it is done, rather than innovation, is now always the motto. I agree with Mr Lund about Mr Nisticò's amendments. I have to say with great respect that I do not think I can support Amendments Nos 1 or 2 which he has withdrawn. The reason, very simply, is that it seems to me to devalue animals caught in the wild, as though they are a cheap supply that can be brought in whilst all our concern goes towards zoo-bred animals and the contents of laboratories. I also feel that we need to look very carefully in this Directive at exactly how the process of experimentation will go in the future. We have this triptych here neatly from Ms Evans: replacement, reduction and scaling down. I would add reflection – we ought to reflect before every experiment is carried out. Why are we doing this? Is it being duplicated? What will the results be? It will be a good day for Parliament if we can do this as well as for the animals under consideration. . – We wish to expand on our reasons for supporting the key principles of the Roth-Berendt report today. We believe it does a singular service by demonstrating to the Commission and the Member States the scale of public exasperation at the delays in phasing out live animal testing for cosmetic products. We are sure the Member States will note the emphatic majority expressed here. It is a vote to ban animal-tested products where alternative tests exist, to phase out animal tests over a 4-year period and to phase in a marketing ban in an agreed period thereafter. We hope the industry in general will heed these proposals. Some of its leading practitioners already have. We understand that, of the principal tests, roughly one-third can now be done by alternative methods, one-third are modified and one-third await effective resolution. We believe our proposal will speed up the necessary research, if it is taken seriously. The industry has everything to gain from using its considerable resources to advance alternative testing, and not for expensive campaigns of procrastination. Similarly, its products will gain and not lose by being accurately labelled, so that the public is warned of possible allergens. We are convinced that today's vote is, in the long run, good for the health and profitability of the European cosmetics industry, as well as the public it serves. – Mr President, no one doubts the seriousness of the foot-and-mouth epidemic in the UK. I believe it has been the worst epidemic of this disease that the world has seen. Nobody can doubt the drastic measures that have had to be used to curtail it. The two current hotspots show that this outbreak will be with us for many months. We cannot, on the one hand, say that the containment is too drastic because of the slaughter policy and, on the other hand, that it is too slack because it has let the disease take hold. We did not anticipate effectively the extraordinary scale of animal movements, particularly of sheep, in February 2000 and later. The first of the three inquiries that have now been launched in the UK will need to look at that and perhaps also at the role of one form of CAP subsidy in encouraging some of these forms of animal movement. We provided effective information for our Dutch, French and Irish neighbours and for them it worked. We should study how their containment worked and why. Vaccination, in my opinion, has to be one of the options that the inquiry can recommend if they so find. Finally a word to Mr Sturdy, who called for a European public inquiry. When we had one into BSE, he was not so enthusiastic. But BSE was a new disease. There was a real element of concealment in some of the factors that led to that disease and particularly in the European factor and the fact that we were still exporting infected meal to continental Europe for years after we banned it for ourselves. That was a genuine European inquiry. The epidemiology of this outbreak is not in doubt. I believe that our friends should accept that the British have to get their own house in order and, if that means a public dimension to the inquiries, that case can be made in the UK. It is not like what happened with BSE: we have done our duty by our neighbours. We hope that they will now have the confidence in us to let us help ourselves and see all remedies properly examined so that this dreadful disease can be exterminated. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Evans, not only on the work she has put in on this, but her very fair and lucid summation of the proposal as it left committee. What we have here is that critical balance between public health requirements and common humanity. Humanity forces us to consider the suffering of those who have to leave cherished pets behind when they travel throughout the European Union. We call this the "Whisky and Soda" reform in Britain, not because it was conceived in some drunken evening in SANCO but because those are the names of Commissioner Patten's two dogs which for many years he had to leave behind in France when came back to England and he was the principal sufferer – certainly in terms of publicity – who has brought about perhaps a change of thinking in our part of the world. I just want to mention three critical areas: first, the time scale; Mrs Evans has accepted now that we have a time scale for the changeover of 8 years, which seems to me to be effective given the life span of most pets in moving from tattoos with all their weaknesses to a proper system of microchips. I do not personally think that in Amendment No 7 where there is a proposal that we have to have an absolutely universal system of ISO standard microchips, that you can expect all animals fitted with a chip to be of that universal variety in the early stages. We have to be a little more lenient there. Secondly, I am delighted that we have now effective proposals, which I am sure the Commissioner will accept for the quarantining of animals which come from third countries where rabies is endemic – the Indian subcontinent would be a case in point. People do move about, their animals move about and we know from other considerations, which are now taking part in another debate on vaccination which is going on with the import and export of foodstuffs, how many things come into and out of the European Community, which are putting us at hazard. We do not want that in this case and so it is very important that the quarantine provisions remain. Finally, ferrets. The Ferret Trust have been following me around over the last few days in a state of great excitement about the provisions on ferrets. In the UK, for sure, there are still some doubt whether you can actually prove the vaccination of a ferret sufficiently to be certain that it could be vaccinated and then be safely transferred as a pet from one country to another. The Ferret Trust told me, very temperately, that they thought the determination of whether ferrets should be included in the pet passport scheme should be deferred until further research had been carried out and they quote two US authorities, Dr Bruce Williams and Dr Zack Miller, as experts in that field. I would happy to go along with that. I have nothing against ferrets, but I would think that even a small risk that rabies may be spread by even such an exotic source as this needs us to give further pause for thought and consideration, rather than simply rushing ahead with a proposal about which at least one Member State still has serious reservations. – Madam President, on behalf of my group I would like to say that we should have recorded a protest vote. We have to vote on this, we have been put in an impossible position, but it should not be left as an ordinary vote of this Parliament. It is a vote under protest and of protest. – Mr President, Commissioner Byrne, some of us appreciate your dilemma and your unwillingness to rush to judgement. If there were simple solutions to this tragedy, we would have found them by now. In the UK we gave our neighbours in France, Ireland and in the Netherlands an early warning and they acted promptly. We applaud them for what they did. But in a minefield the early warning is given by the first person to step on the mine and that was the UK. We have suffered greatly from that. Would the Commissioner confirm that this is essentially a crisis of movement? Would he accept, as the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development does not, that vaccinated animals can carry the virus? Otherwise the belated decision which the Commission took on 14 March to exclude Argentine produce would make no sense. Will he undertake with the SVC to examine the problem of long-range, unrecorded animal movements in which animals are largely treated as commodities, which has been the major factor in the spread of FMD? Would a carcass trade not be better for Europe to be considering? Finally, what is the SVC's opinion of the various methods of disposal used in the UK where a million animals have now been culled? Can he reject the false stories which have been put around by some in the UK that these methods were originally vetoed by the Commission, if that was not the case? – Mr President, I am glad to be able to follow someone who has so vigorously supported the Labour Government, as Mr Bowis just did. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur after the sometimes stormy passage of her report and the mini-ambush which she almost suffered tonight. In the UK we are the largest manufacturer – and indeed consumer – of health supplements of one kind or another, vitamin and mineral supplements to the diet. We have been stringent in ensuring that false claims are never made for them, and that is why in the UK they have never been marketed as medicines. But they do bring benefits to millions who would accept that they are a supplement to, but not a substitute for, a balanced diet. We believe that the upper safe levels are sufficient to make the difference between foods and medicines even clearer. Obviously the situation is different in some other Member States, and any attempt to regularise the position makes sense in the general context of emergent food law. I support the rapporteur's view that all substances which have been validly in use in the Member States, according to the laws of those countries, should continue until such time as they can be tested and perhaps found wanting. I rather doubt if many will be, and I do not think that the annexes themselves contain anything like the number of exceptions that we should see. With every day that passes, we hear of other substances which are causing concern because they may be excluded. That is why the word physiological – and I would beg the rapporteur to think again even at this late hour – is important in terms of people who are genuine sufferers and who derive great benefit from these products. We ought to hear from the Commissioner tonight that there will be measured progress towards effective analysis by the requisite deadline, be that 2004 or later. Effective labelling, so that the consumers can choose both the context and the regularity of what they are getting, is the best way forward. That will help many consumers and worry none. – Mr President, we congratulate Mr Arvidsson for his hard work. He is in the unusual position of producing a report on Commission action which has already been taken and it is the way it has been taken that we are to some extent talking about here. The ban on a range of identified phthalates was precautionary. It attracted broad support and was also in line with the accepted practices of a number of Member States. If we were simply balancing the health and safety of children against the needs and priorities of industry there would be no contest, but there are related issues which we should address. The first is how the Commission handles the scientific advice available to it. Was it done in a balanced way? Does it give us confidence that this powerful and sometimes necessary weapon of a product ban was used correctly? I am not sure about this and I want to return to it in an explanation of vote. Secondly, on the wider issue of PVCs in general, how soon will we get the kind of migration testing from which phthalates' safety can be assessed and the review which is called for in one of the amendments? We also need information about when the substitutes which the industry may introduce will be open to equivalent testing. It is no good banning something if you are unsure about what will replace it. On the issue of labelling, I am sorry to see that there are amendments against this. Personally I believe that we have to have it, certainly for children up to the age of six, although some will argue that that leads to another kind ban. Essentially, the number of plastic objects which could be put in the mouth and swallowed is increasing. This House should be more concerned if it went to bed worried that it had done too much, than if it woke up finding it had done too little. The precautionary principle should rule. – Mr President, like many others, I want to thank Commissioner Byrne for his customary vigilance and also the French Minister for being here today. As an Englishman, I welcome the measures the French have taken. There is a general acknowledgement that BSE, which began as a British disease and today is being presented as a French crisis, is really a European disease – a European problem – and it must be tackled on that basis. There should not be any recriminations between the nation states or between different generations of government on this issue. We must tackle this. The Minister said that MBM was a low-cost foodstuff. It is not a low-cost food stuff if it helps to spread BSE and its human derivative. That is the essential problem here today. Many speakers have said that we need to extend the ban on meat-and-bone meal as a mammalian food stuff. The UK already bans it from all farm livestock. Our own Food Standards Agency will be pronouncing very soon on intra-species recycling, and I hope they will condemn it also. We need to take these precautions, and we need to take them quickly for the benefit of all the countries of Europe. Mr Byrne did not say very much today, as he was widely trailed to have done, about testing. I am glad that we are still looking at the extension of testing on an experimental basis. There are still doubts about the validity of tests, particularly on younger animals, and we have heard from other speakers about the huge size of the herd in Europe that would have to be tested even if old animals are to be taken out of the food chain. Lastly, we must make greater speed in urging the Council to act on our behalf. Everyone has said that and everyone knows it to be true. You must move. We have just heard that it took four years to agree a ban on SRMs in the food chain. We do not have another four years. We may not have another one year. We must take precautions now, not just on behalf of those of us who are concerned, but on behalf of the complacent minority of Member States as well. It is for their benefit that we do it. . – Madam President, today's debate is the culmination of a long process which began in the days of the BSE epidemic. It is in a sense a proposal that comes as much from this House as from the other institutions of the European Union because our two temporary committees of inquiry culminated in the recommendation that there should be a body of this kind. One Commission fell, another came into office accepting that something of this sort should happen and it is that proposal from President Prodi, driven forward by the Commissioner, which we are dealing with today. It is, therefore, the work of many hands and if this debate today is considered, calm and, I hope, rational it is because of the extent to which the three sides in the triangle of forces have attempted to come to an agreed conclusion by the time of this second reading debate, in order to expedite the introduction of the new authority itself. There should not be any undue delay. If we can avoid the conciliation stage, we will do so. There are still perhaps a few reservations which I shall refer to in a moment, but we have come to a point where we believe we have a consensus in this House. We certainly have a majority in this House and I should like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs of the other political groups, particularly Mr Bowis, Mrs Paulsen and Mr Staes for the work they have done right through since the original White Paper. I would also like to thank my own researcher, Michelle Smythe, and everyone from the Commission and the Council, under both the Swedish and Belgian presidencies, who have brought this forward. Since Mrs Aelvoet has taken a bit of a pounding today I shall pay tribute to her part in it also. We have now agreed on a timetable to get the new authority up and running. To do that there is a series of specific compromises: 16 new amendments which broadly find favour with the Commission – I hope Mr Byrne will be able to indicate that – and the Council. Firstly, we had to adopt an unusual procedure for one point that remains in some doubt, that is, the site of the new authority. We wanted to set out criteria for the site of the new authority as we believe we should. The Council, however, were not prepared to accept them in the body of the text. But you do not throw away the whole report for that: we have put it into the legislative resolution and we hope that you, Madam President, will be able to set out exactly what our reasoning is. The decision will have to be made on merit and not through the kind of political horsetrading that is currently being whispered about. It would be the worst possible start if this body were sited in an inappropriate place for the worst of reasons. We tabled the compromise amendments in order to bring forward the major priorities that this Parliament has always emphasised: firstly, a parliamentary hearing for the proposed executive director of the new authority and a three-month period for Parliament to express its opinion on the candidates for a small and tightly-focused management board. That is the board that will meet in public and will make its opinions equally public so the citizens of Europe can see what it recommends. It will have a role to play in risk analysis, risk communication and risk management, where its advice is appropriate. These are substantial powers. In addition, this legislation gives protection to those who want to report on unsafe practices in the food and feed business. Citizens have a duty to tell the truth and I believe we have guaranteed that. If the 16 compromise amendments, and the others already agreed with the presidency, are passed, we can proceed to set up the new EFSA. The problem of BSE, for example, is still with us: cases of it have been notified in two previously clear Member States this week. Everybody knows that food and animal feed have to be safer. The procedures whereby such products come in and out of the European Union have to be open, transparent and, above all, safe. Some of the practices of industrialised farming have threatened us all. Producers and consumers alike have everything to gain from a monitoring authority which protects the interests of all and is beholden to none. On that basis I commend this proposal to the House. – Mr President, it is not every day we have to congratulate a rapporteur for sheer civil courage in standing up to one of the most unscrupulous lobbies of our time. I do not believe that I have seen anything like it before. Like most of us, she has been accused of being a stooge of the pharmaceutical industry, of being ignorant and insensitive. We should say to those who made these accusations that we cannot be bought in this House and that we cannot be bullied either. We owe our constituents our judgement, and mine is that for all its flaws and deficiencies, the directive is one that should be commended, with amendments, to those many people who are frightened and nervous, who depend on these food supplements to preserve their health, and some of whom even believe it is a matter of life or death. They fear this directive because they have been told that these products will be banned, that testing will be prohibitive, and that what remains will be swallowed up in a restrictive and prescriptive regime. We owe it to them to make certain that is not the case, and shallow populist rhetoric is not the way to do it. We need to make certain that small producers can come forward and be reassured that it will not be a costly and prohibitive process. Time after time, we see that this is ignored in directives. It has been ignored in the PPP directive. The people who have the greatest need of our protection now are the small producers and we should help them. They should be able to register their product for simple and cost-effective evaluation. It should be a positive list which is rapidly expanded, with maximum dosages linked to real needs and not to outmoded daily allowances. People such as Mr Davies have said: 'well, we have not done this for alcohol'. My God, we have tried! We know what lobby it is that stops us doing this on alcohol, which stops us having the labelling that is necessary. Two wrongs do not make a right. We have to look at this directive in terms of the way in which it will be interpreted. The more people make claims about their health, the more we see that this needs a safety evaluation. You cannot have the one without the other. If you make the claims, you must expect to see them tested, but they should be tested fairly, simply and in a cost-effective way to leave a regime of light-touch and user-friendly practices. That is what my country has had and I believe we can keep it. It is also possible to fit that in to the framework of this directive. .– Like other Members who spoke at the beginning of this debate, I have abstained in the vote because I am a rightholder in the field of television documentary archive and books. None of these interests are directly involved in any financial gain for me should the amendments be passed, and in any event – in common with the rapporteur, Mr Boselli – I am opposed to many of them. Nevertheless, it is the wisest course to abstain and to congratulate Mr Boselli on his successful negotiation of a report which comes so close to the common position and the balance which it achieved. – Mr President, I also want to congratulate my colleague, Mr Medina Ortega, and indeed his predecessor for the work that has been done on this directive. Mr Medina referred to action that had to be taken to implement this directive throughout the Member States and the laggardly way in which they have done so. It has all been too little, too late. There is a fringe of fraudulent activities – the timeshare sharks. There are practices that exploit the time limits of the directive itself, the growth of holiday clubs, points clubs and so on. There is avoidance of the limited protection of the very brief cooling-off period which is, I fear, not universally implemented, again by the different Member States. My colleague, Mrs McCarthy and others join me in recommending a proper cooling-off period of 28 days where the contract is signed outside the buyer's country of residence, as is the normal procedure. In my own country the victims of timeshare fraud have banded together to try and demand action. One of my constituents, Claire Griffiths, who attended the public hearings here, organised boycotts of the agents in her area. They were successful in terms of the diminished business of those people, but the group is still waiting for proper redress and their money back. The Association of Timeshare Owners is today organising a co-regulatory body to deal with the management of timeshare resorts, which has been one of the other matters at issue. Our quarrel is not with them. I appreciate anything which is done in the field of co-regulation. However, they, and we, need action from the Commission, either by a resolution or by a directive. That is the only way we can demonstrate our power here to protect the vulnerable against exploitation that is not merely callous but very often criminal as well. – Mr President, I want to deal briefly with a number of amendments about which concern has been raised. Amendment No 31 deals with products using traditional methods or sited in remote locations. All of us have some examples of this kind. I have seen this in the UK, with people trying to operate our beef assurance scheme. We should defend this amendment because it specifically states that such products should have no demonstrable adverse effect on food hygiene. Similarly the references to HACCP in Amendment No 9 are permissive and not mandatory, and the small business sector can live with that. I now turn to the Goodwill/Bernier Amendment No 18, as Mr Goodwill would expect me to, exempting hunters from these regulations. We accept this for the individual hunter consuming or passing on the game he has shot or caught. But there is a difference between the noble Nordic hunter scaling the utmost peak in pursuit of an individual elk, the picture that Mr Sjöstedt would commend to us, and the syndicates of flabby businessmen turning out on English landed estates, as they turn in a large quota of inexpertly shot birds and animals for the market. In these circumstances, I believe that, if such products go to a retail outlet or a restaurant, there is a difference. The great wit, Oscar Wilde, described the English hunting fraternity as the 'unspeakable in pursuit of the uneatable'. I do not mind that but when the 'unspeakable' begin to peddle the 'eatable', they should be open to the hygiene rules, as set down in this regulation. I see no reason whatsoever why we should make an exemption where, what starts off as a little outlet doing no harm, a brace or two of birds here or there, ends up as another supply route. We should protect the hunter's right to hunt but we should not guarantee him an unprotected route into retail outlets. Mr President, two weeks ago Mr Tannock asked you to rule on the status of the STOA report on inedibles in foodstuffs after the STOA Panel voted not to publish it. Can I remind you that the STOA articles of association state that there should not be votes on research projects from that committee which have been commissioned by this Parliament. 'The results ... shall not be adopted, nor voted upon, nor be regarded as a STOA or Parliamentary report.' What are we to tell our constituents who ask for research before reassurance, wherever it leads? What steps will you take to ensure that this report, whether it is troubling or mundane, becomes the property of us all and cannot be expunged by a powerful lobby? – Mr President, in this brief time I would like to make two points, both in relation to veterinary medicines. In a way, they have been the poor relation in these debates because of the immense complexity of the situation with regard to human medicinal substances. Firstly, I would like to warn against the Commission's proposals under Article 67 that all veterinary medicines intended for food-producing animals should be available on prescription only. Some Member States, including my own, have a well-established distribution system that allows medicines for which veterinary involvement is not considered necessary for safe and effective use to be obtained without a veterinary certificate. I can see why some professional organisations in some other Member States would be opposed to that, but it has worked effectively for very many years in Ireland as well as the UK. When we now look at the enlargement of the Union, all kinds of problems will arise if we allow ourselves now to move towards a centralised system which allows only by prescription use of such medicines as are currently administered by qualified persons in countries like the UK. I therefore commend Amendment No 43 to the House. My second and last point is that on the mandatory centralised procedures proposed by the Commission, the committee decided to move to a more flexible system for human medicines, but did not follow that same route in terms of animal medicines. We should rectify that and we can do so through Amendment No 171. Finally, I would make the point that it is a mistake for the Commission to propose that we remove the five-year renewal requirement for marketing authorisation. That is a safety precaution we should retain. – Mr President, Mr Posselt may have plenty of time, but I have to leave as I am booked on a flight departing from Frankfurt at 3.30 p.m. Tomorrow I shall be speaking at a conference in Greece on this very subject. I apologise in advance to the Commissioner, and I will be much briefer than the chairman of our committee might have been, had he been here. Normally our colleague Mrs Junker would have replaced him, but she has been unwell and in hospital. I am sure the House would wish her well and a speedy recovery.  I must declare an interest as a director of a television company that will certainly be involved in digital broadcasting and the broadband communication field – though probably long after I have ceased to have any connection with it. Would the Commissioner like me to repeat Mr Rocard's question? And will the Commissioner be replying to the debate as a whole at the end? – Mr President, one word of explanation. This report now has a series of agreed amendments which we believe will be carried. There is one unusual procedure – the House has voted already on the criteria for the site of the European Food Safety Authority. The Council was not prepared to admit that as a part of the report. We, however, believe that it was necessary to state what the criteria should be and to insist upon that. The best way we can do that without going to conciliation is to vote it as a legislative resolution, binding therefore only on Parliament. We hope that the President of Parliament will convey that information and our view on the matter to the Laeken Summit in two days' time. – Mr President, this measure is of great significance in those countries – the United Kingdom, Ireland and Sweden – which are now bringing their rules on the movement of pet animals into line with practices elsewhere in the Community. Like the rapporteur, I believe it is a pity that we could not reach agreement before the conciliation stage, but I understand the differences. Some of those differences will be reflected in this debate, and I still have some minor differences with the rapporteur, which she has already acknowledged. For those countries which have prevented the entry of animals that may be at risk of rabies without a long period of quarantine, this is, in a way, an act of faith. It is made possible by the fact that we now have effective vaccination methods which can be indicated by the transponder chip. We have recently had representations from some members of the veterinary profession arguing for an extension of the tattooing principle and claiming that the transponder chip can be surgically removed or otherwise nullified. I cannot accept those arguments. There is broad agreement between the Commission and all Members of this House that we should move toward alignment. I share the rapporteur's concern that the movement of young animals, which must present at least some element of risk, should be subject to the same constraints as that of other categories. I have not been able to follow the arguments against that, other than that it may, somewhere along the line, affect the trade in animals. But, as the Commissioner well knows, trade in animals, if it is not effectively handled, has led to the perpetuation of some serious abuses in the Community in recent years. I do not believe this is a persuasive argument. I agree, however, with the Commission and not the rapporteur on Amendments Nos 7, 8, and 9. It is counterproductive to introduce amendments which will effectively constrain the movement of animals between some existing Member States, as well as extending the scheme – as the United Kingdom and other countries with the current constraints would like – to countries that are not rabies-free. For the United States and Canada, for example, we see no reason why there should be the further impediments set out in Amendments Nos 7, 8 and 9. We agree with the rapporteur, however, on the question of comitology. I welcome the Commissioner's assurance that a suitable amendment allowing for reference to Parliament at any process of review will be introduced. In conclusion, although this is a small measure to many and will not mean much to those countries where animals routinely cross internal EU borders, for those who cherish pets as lifelong companions it is a measure that will be greatly welcomed. – Mr President, I also wish to congratulate Mrs Paulsen on her diligence in preparing and seeing through this report, and to echo a previous speaker who said of Mr Maaten's report – but it is equally true of this one – that it is a model of the second-reading procedure. We are gathered here with a reasonable unanimity in the committee, with a very modest number of amendments but with an absolute certainty that we want to press our point. If codecision is to have any meaning, that is a position we will maintain to the end. I am putting the position of my group in the absence of Mrs Roth-Behrendt who, as some will know, is in hospital in Berlin. I saw her last week in Berlin and I am sure she is making a rapid recovery and would wish all to know that her heart remains in our proceedings in these matters of food hygiene and food safety. There are only six amendments which the House has to consider tonight: five from the committee as a whole and the sixth tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. My group supports all of them for one simple reason: we surely should have learned by now the lesson that precision and targeting of possible dangers in animal feed is of the essence of the precautions that we need to take. Over the last two or three years we have seen enough of the dreadful practices in parts of the animal-feed industry, sometimes practices that were already illegal according to the rules of those days. They need to be tightened up quickly. Precision is at the heart of what Mrs Paulsen has had to say to us today. Precision in language most of all: the word "contamination" is not satisfactory when it is used in the phraseology of the food authority proposals, which we will be discussing shortly. It is not sufficient where we need to be able to have a further process of scrutiny and inspection of damaging materials that may be inserted very early on into the manufacture of animal feed. I am very glad that one important principle is enshrined in this report as it goes through to the next stage: animal feed should be taken as seriously for all of us in our own interests as human food. The two are more or less indistinguishable, both in their effects on human kind and on the animals with whom we share this planet. There is an election going on in Britain and yesterday I was doing my stuff on the doorstep in a country village. People were asking whether veterinary inspections were secure and safe and could possible be self-policed. I have known and represented that place for 30 years. Ten years ago you would never have heard these considerations. The fact that they are now paramount argues the case for this report. – Mr President, with an issue of this importance it is necessary that we indicate to those still on the premises that a vote is taking place. It is very unusual for a vote to be called in this way with about 12 Members in the House. Many others outside are completely unaware – as are those of us who are here who happen to wish to speak in this debate – that this issue is being considered. If there is a way in which you can alert those on the premises of Parliament to that fact that there is a vote and adjourn until they are present, maybe we will get a more representative result. – Mr President, the first task of anyone who has served on the Conciliation Committee must be to congratulate Mrs Paulsen for her drive and tenacity in surviving a complex conciliation which was at times almost overturned by some very unorthodox manoeuvres. That would not have been right for Parliament, and I am glad that the various parties to this agreement converged in this way. Mrs Paulsen had to keep her nerve because events elsewhere, including elections, were bringing special pressures to bear on the way in which these events were being looked at. Yet she was vindicated the whole time by the saga of continuing food contamination scandals which went on in a number of Member States right through 2002 and in the way in which this matter has worked out. We know all about full traceability for specified risk materials in the United Kingdom because we were forced in the wake of BSE to introduce, almost at gun-point, something which is now going to be uniform across the Community. This is all to the good. I believe that the number of by-products that have found their way into the food chain this year show us that perhaps even now, and later when this regulation is fully enforced, there will still need to be vigilance to ensure that above all else the principle of separation is rigorously upheld. I turn to the questions mentioned already by Mr Goodwill regarding the problem some Member States have experienced. I am glad that we have found a solution which leaves a temporary period of transition, rather than shrugging aside the need to bring this matter to a conclusion. I make no comment on the situation as regards the Austrian and German industries and confine myself to the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom we had certain specific problems: perhaps the Commissioner can make a note of them, because in the final statement we will need to see how these are addressed in connection with the transition. The first question, familiar to Mr Goodwill, is of small incinerators which have been used as an extremely sensible way of destroying fallen stock on site with the minimum period of contamination risk. We need to be sure, during the transition period for inspection, that the reasons why these have been used, and used effectively, are fully understood by the Commission and that they are not simply arbitrarily removed from the scene. The second area is the question of cooking oil. The United Kingdom is now prepared to accept, rightly, that the transition period should be two years instead of four years and that in that time, given that this whole directive is only going to take effect something like eight or nine months from now, there will have been an adequate period for the industry concerned to adjust its practices – and probably its profits – to other ways of disposing of this, particularly in the field of biofuels. Lastly, I am glad the United Kingdom withdrew its objections relating to the application for a transition period for the land application of blood from slaughterhouses. This is a pretty repulsive habit. We could not have justified it and am glad that the United Kingdom withdrew its objections. In this matter, too, the principle of cleanliness and separation should be paramount. Mrs Paulsen has showed us the way and it is up to us to follow. – Mr President, I rise as the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy. For that reason alone I will not follow Mr Parish in his more provocative remarks. I advise him to look up the number of animals for which compensation was claimed before he uses his total figures for mass slaughter - as hideous as that undoubtedly was. I simply want to say to the rapporteur that the way in which he did this job, both on the temporary committee and subsequently, is a template for the way in which this work should be done. He was considerate, courteous and thorough. I think the UK Government, which found itself in the eye of the storm, would also apply those words to him and appreciated this. The Commission has moved, in large measure, to implement what we in the temporary committee recommended. The arguments will always return to the exact relationship between stamping out through culling and vaccination - whether to live or die - in a society that both cherishes its FMD-free status, yet has proper moral scruples about the means  employed to return to it. These arguments will move with the science. We are right to prioritise the research needed. I would like some kind of estimate from the Commissioner as to how that research is progressing. The epidemic moved with terrifying speed. As has been said during the current SARS outbreak, the virus had its own rage to survive. It was awful to see that speed. Movement restrictions were not effective in the early stages. We had 50 000 sheep on the move, largely untraced, when the virus struck. I am sure we all agree that the mass culls that followed should never be seen again. They traumatised whole communities. Member States now have a wider discretion as to how they control the outbreak and the sequence to be followed in emergencies, from stamping out to vaccination. I would like to emphasise, as Mr Blokland did - and it came through in our report - that there is a moral dimension to this. Unless we have an ethical element in farming it is unlikely that we will have commendation in the future for measures that we might take the next time this happens. As far as our own committee is concerned, we needed to emphasise three things to the Commission. One is faster updating of contingency plans subject to practicability. We need to look at the seamless nature of the world we live in, in terms of the buying and selling of foodstuffs. Perhaps the Commissioner could say a word on what the FVO is doing about looking at the movement of foodstuffs into the country, given some of the problems we have had in recent times. We need to be able to tell the public, as consumers, much more forcefully why it is that meat from vaccinated animals is safe to eat. We cannot have a pro-vaccination policy unless we have public acceptance of it, which goes with that greatly changed consumer standpoint. While our own Food Standards Agency argued this case in Britain, it found itself confounded by the negativity of too many producers and too many retailers. Finally, we should take special measures, as others have said, to preserve rare breeds, an indispensable part of the animal gene pool, so that they are not swept away by some new pandemic. I am sure that the Commissioner can appreciate the need to be practical. He has shown that. The tenor of this debate will be set by the degree to which we can also preserve our humanity and life in all its infinite variety. – Mr President, parallel to that point of order could it be also borne in mind that the interpreters are very kind to us and sometimes they do not translate "my machine failed to work" as "I failed to work". – Mr President, I am sure that the Commissioner attends these events with a heavy heart, because he is responsible not just for the food chain and the feed chain but also the worst chain of all, the contamination chain. One of the problems we face in this House is that we often orate about how everything should be perfect without always ourselves being willing to seek the means to go with the ends: the means to allow us to have an effective FVO, which at the moment is overstretched and understaffed; the means to have a proper process of scrutiny whereby every Member State, great or small, whether its population is a few hundred thousand or many millions, takes equal precautions and provides equal information. That has not happened in some of the cases here and I appreciate the difficulties that the Commissioner faces as a result. In regard to the scandal about the presence of nitrofen in grains for organic chickens, we know from information provided between May and July that not all of the Member States were informed with express speed about what had happened. Our information is that in regard to contaminated pork – to pigs that had been fed with these appalling materials – four Member States had purchased and no doubt their citizens had consumed some of the contaminated pork before the process of control was effectively operating. The controls are now better and, as a result of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health being set up in February and the evidence it collates, we can now say that we have a rapid-alert system that ought to work. That is the Commissioner's responsibility, so we commend him on it. The question is whether the Member States are providing sufficient information. Can they be trusted to bring their own rogue operators under control? I do not know. I should like to hear from the Commissioner whether he believes the resources are there. Mr Bowis said earlier that all the institutions have been dilatory and slow in setting up EFSA. It is going to come into operation later than we had hoped. Is that one of the reasons why we are having to wait longer to get these positive lists of feed materials and the general hygiene rules which follow from the reforms we so enthusiastically greeted last year? I hope that the Commissioner can tell us that proper investigations are proceeding in all the Member States as to why organisations like Bioland could perpetrate the scandals they did. – Mr President, we heard this morning from Parliament's legal services that if we retained the phase 'including private international law provisions' in paragraph 15 we could not mention the two articles of the Treaty which are the purpose of this amendment. I therefore move the deletion of those words, with the support of Mrs Thyssen and Mr Bushill-Matthews, who jointly moved amendments in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy originally. – Mr President, it is a real pleasure to hear Mrs Winberg and the Commissioner speaking with one voice on an issue which should concern us all. This seems to me to mark a turning point in how this Parliament debates these matters, because it sets out here a coherent, ethical framework by which we should all subsequently be judged. Animals are not merely products, nor are they simply commodities. One of the most appalling things I heard in my own country came from a trader concerning the spread of foot-and-mouth disease: "They are commodities. I take them around. I trade them here, I trade them there." They are not stocks and shares. They are not speculative metals. They are sentient creatures. Because of that I believe, with the Commissioner, that the way in which animals are kept reflects on us morally, but also practically, in that bad conditions for animals affect the health and safety of humans as well. The Food Safety Authority will need to address this matter. The Commissioner is right to say that consumers would be prepared to pay more for ‘ethical food’. Another thing they want – but do not always get – is follow-through in the area where animal welfare is promised, but not always delivered. Like everyone else in this House, I hope and expect that the sow stalls proposal will go through on Thursday. It will certainly have our support. I would like to feel that at the same time we are looking at other issues which, because they are cherished in some Member State or in some particular group or community within the European Union, are shrugged aside. I have seen recently that the Italians have tackled the issue of how  is produced. Others have begun to raise the issue of the cruelties involved in the breeding of animals for the fur trade. Now we are coming to the point where, in the testing of chemicals, perhaps we ought to have an absolute assurance (and I know Commissioner Byrne has gone some way towards this already) that we will minimise – and I use that word advisedly – the number of animals sacrificed in the validation of chemical testing. Those things seem to me to be enormously important. Against such a backdrop we can begin to persuade the WTO that these issues are humanitarian, not protectionist. Then, perhaps, we will able to fashion the means of arriving at a food system in which people matter, but animals matter too. Mr President, it is customary to congratulate and thank the rapporteurs and I will do that as chairman of the committee, and there are three of them – let us not forget that. First of all, Mr Virrankoski who has done a thorough job. He came to this position halfway through the year; his attitude has been exemplary and he really deserves the congratulations of Parliament, not just the committee. Secondly, Mr Pittella who, as a new member, came to the committee and has made quite a significant point about the phasing-in of the ECSC funds. It is quite an innovative approach and he should be congratulated. And while we are giving out congratulations I shall also congratulate the Commissioner on her speech which was politically realistic. Well done Commissioner! But the main congratulations go to Mr Bourlanges. When Mr Bourlanges began he said it was the first time he had had 15 minutes to speak in Parliament, and my immediate thought was “yes and that will not be long enough”. Sure enough it was not long enough – he exceeded it by almost a minute and still had not said half the things he wanted to say. Mr Bourlanges, I congratulate you on your approach to the budget. It is fair to say there has never been a dull moment. You are pragmatic, innovative and, most importantly, serious. That is shown in your attitude towards the BATs. You may well be known as “BATman Bourlanges” although I cannot quite see you with a cape and mask, wearing underpants outside your pants, but you have done an extremely good job on the BATs! This first reading is predominantly about the asterisk amendment concerning Kosovo, the Morocco fisheries agreement, East Timor and Turkey, which was mentioned by the rapporteur. I have to stress this point quite clearly to the Council and – to a lesser extent – to the Commission because I think they understand. We take the interinstitutional agreement extremely seriously. There are forces within this Parliament which would quite happily see it scrapped tomorrow but as far as I am concerned my job – and the job of Parliament  – is to defend the agreement which we made earlier this year. We have shown that we are prepared to do that. If we were against it the Category 3 ceiling would have been exceeded, and on that point, incidentally, all three institutions have a problem with the amount deemed necessary for codecision lines such as Socrates. This is not just a problem for the year 2000, it is an ongoing problem. Can I say to both the presidency and the Commission that this is something we need to find a solution to together and quickly. The amendment for Category 4 should not be seen as Parliament just flexing its muscles. I hasten to add this is not a threat – though that may sound like a contradiction of something I have to say a little later on. But I do not want the Council to see it as a threat. We do not want the Council thinking that we think we have them “by the Balkans” so to speak; we are not trying to squeeze them too hard, though that may be the wrong phrase to use. It should be seen as an invitation for our two institutions to sit down and agree a solution. That is what we should be aiming to do, President-in-Office. We look forward to the proposal from the Commission which will come forward next week. In the light of what Mrs Schreyer has said, I look forward with anticipation. I hope the Council can do the same. But I do need to stress to the Council that this is not the Grand Old Duke of York marching his troops up the hill, just to march them down again. This is not just some act by Parliament to mount a show of force, but at the end of the day Member States will put pressure on individual Members whose parties are in government to get us to change our mind. Things do not work like that because of the majorities that now exist within this Parliament. If we do not get an agreement on the revision of the Financial Perspective especially, I am fairly certain that Article 272 will be invoked. There is no doubt about that and Council should be in no doubt about that whatsoever. That it is not a threat, it is a statement of intent. Let me reiterate the philosophy of two of my predecessors: Mr von der Vring and Mr Samland. I want the Council to take back this message. What we are fighting for is Parliament’s rights, we are not fighting for money. It is about the rights of this Parliament and that is the message they have to understand through and through. Once they understand that message I am quite sure that the discussions we should and will have will be fruitful. I know the political constraints that Member States are working within, we are all serious about – as you put it – the principles of cost efficiency and rigour. We abide by those same principles but in this instance, after what Parliament has fought for over the years, this revision of the interinstitutional agreement, a revision of the Financial Perspective as outlined in the interinstitutional agreement, is extremely important to Parliament. I hope that is understood. .  Mr President, I have risen before on a vote on reports like these and no doubt I will be doing so again in the future. I would normally rise before each report, but if you are agreeable, I shall make this statement once and we could accept it for all three reports in the culture package. Rule 63a of our Rules of Procedure states that we have to ensure that all reports are financially compatible. To make sure that we are in line with that Rule, I would propose that we add an oral amendment to all three reports which would read 'Considers that the financial statement as amended is compatible with the ceiling of headings 3 and 5 of the financial perspectives 2000-2006'. I would like to ask the President-in-Office if he would agree that the original question tabled is actually factually incorrect when it talks about endangering the health of people in Britain and Ireland. In the report Melanie Johnson quoted from – and as Mr Atkins has just commented – the authors actually state that there is no health risk whatsoever: there is no correlation whatsoever here with the original question. In fact, some of the highest readings taken were 260 miles away from Sellafield and some of the lowest were 50 miles away from Sellafield. It seems ironic that these comments are being made when the UK department's own report stated that the levels were a thousand times smaller than those of other radioactive substances present as a result of natural sources. Would the President-in-Office not agree that the question was factually incorrect and put purely for scaremongering reasons, as Sir Robert Atkins mentioned? – Mr President, my point concerns the next four hours. Commissioner Nielson was not here when I made my opening remarks but one of them concerned the Global Health Fund. One question we need answering before we take a decision next week on category 4 is: what is the amount of money that the European Union has to pay to get a seat on the board of the Global Health Fund? We are getting conflicting comments from the Commission and from our colleagues in the Committee on Development. The Committee on Budgets needs to know a figure. Mr President, in the light of what the last four speakers have said there does not seem much left to be said about the 2004 budget. Therefore, I will concentrate on one or two other things. Firstly, I join with others in thanking the Italian presidency for being cooperative in the way we came to a conclusion on this budget. It is nice to see Mr Ionta here with us today  he has recently been in hospital  and I hope he will send our best wishes for a speedy recovery to Mr Magri  who has also been hospitalised. We wish him well and we are sorry he is not here today. But it is important to stress that the cooperation we have had from the Italians has helped in this process, as with previous budgets, whether it be under the Finns, French, Belgians or Danes  although with the Finns it was rather nerve-racking when we all came into this Chamber with two different voting lists on the final day. But even then it was high drama! It is also fair to say that, whilst a lot of thanks have been given to me, I want to reciprocate because this is probably the last budget debate I will be involved in as chairman. There will be the supplementary and amending budget next year, but this will be the last one I will be involved in as chairman for the general process. I have been told what a good job I have done, but you cannot do it unless you are working with the right people. Mr Mulder has already thanked the secretariat. He is right to do so, as we have an excellent secretariat in the Committee on Budgets, not least Alfredo de Feo, who leads that team extremely well. I have three good Vice-Chairmen who support me. I have a very good committee membership who take their subject seriously and show great interest. But the beauty of it is that it is a great team of coordinators, and especially Mr Walter, who makes my life so easy. I say that because I was a coordinator for five years, I have been a chairman for four-and-a-half years and I know which is the harder job  it is not this one. It is wonderful being chairman, but the coordinators never get the thanks they deserve. All the coordinators in the Committee on Budgets have worked extremely hard. As you can see with the way that we will vote on Thursday for this budget, it will probably be the easiest budget that any of us have ever voted. Having said that, I want to touch on a point Mrs Schreyer also mentioned, which is the future and what was proposed by Ecofin. Over the last 15 years in which I have been involved in the Committee on Budgets we in this Parliament have always shown how serious we are about the budget. We are not profligate; we are not wasteful; we do not do things because we just want to do them on a whim. As Mr Garriga Polledo said, there are political aspects to a lot of this budget and it is not just an accounting exercise. But if the Ecofin proposals had gone through – and they could still go through some time in the future – it will be an absolute disaster for Parliament and will lead to chaos. What we need between the two arms of the budgetary authority is a more realistic conciliatory approach from both arms. We have to start trusting each other. In the last four-and-a-half years we have tried to build that trust between our two institutions. But until we reach a position where we trust one another, there will always be suspicion from the Council, which wants to take away our powers, and we will always be suspicious of the Council and feel that if it does that we are going to get our own back in some way, shape or form. We could have lived with what the Convention proposed. We want to ensure that whatever comes in the future gives stability and realism to the system and also to show that we take our position  seriously. It has been great being chairman of this Committee on Budgets. I still have two presidencies to go – the Irish presidency for six months; and then, for the trialogue and the conciliation in July, I will even be involved in the Dutch presidency. It is a wonderful position to have held. I am grateful to have held it and I just hope that in the future this Parliament has the dignity, powers and ability to serve the people of Europe in the way we have served it during these last five years. . – Mr President, since we are congratulating ourselves – everyone has made very complimentary speeches about the role of the Committee on Budgets – I am reminded of a story once told to me by Vice-President Schmid. A former chairman of the Committee on Budgets and a former general rapporteur went on a skiing holiday. Whilst they were out skiing they had an accident: they fell down a deep ravine. They were stuck and could not get out. Twenty-four hours later, people realised they were missing and they sent out a search party. When the search party reached the ravine, it looked down and saw these two figures. They shouted down: ‘Are you from the Budgets Committee?’ They replied: ‘Yes, we are!’ They shouted back: ‘We are from the Red Cross.’ The reply came: ‘We have no money’.  That is the image that most people have of the Committee on Budgets. However, with this budget we have been extremely kind to virtually everybody who has come along. Anyone who has been involved in this procedure knows about the faxes, e-mails, telephone calls and the knocks on the door as attempts are made to lobby for anything that can be gained from this budget. However, on this occasion the rapporteurs have worked extremely well to ensure that the priorities of the committees, the different political groups and those with outside interests who have lobbied effectively are taken on board. We have a budget which reflects considerable good will on the part of this Parliament. In fact, there is so much good will that, as I said in committee, we have too much money in the budget, especially in some areas in category 4 where the money will not be spent. However, it is there, and it has been achieved through the good work of the rapporteurs and the committee and through our joint efforts with the Council and the Commission. It must be said that there have been a good deal of firsts in this budgetary process, not least because of the attitude of the Danish Presidency. We have all congratulated them, and they have worked exceptionally hard to ensure that we finally have a budget of which we can all be proud. There is normally considerable lobbying at this final stage, but not on this occasion. The very few instances of lobbying we have encountered concern one or two lines relating to category 4. Our negotiations in the conciliation with the Council and the Commission have actually proved fruitful. In category 4, every single amendment requested by the committees has been delivered, except on those lines concerned with ECHO – we are convinced that the money can be found – and the Global Health Fund. We do not have the EUR 80 million that was requested, but we have EUR 42 million from the general budget and a guarantee that the European Union will have a seat on the board of the Global Health Fund. From that point of view, it is quite good. However, the one message that needs to be conveyed, amidst all these congratulations, is how the money will be utilised throughout next year, because our weakness in this Parliament is that we do not monitor how the money is being spent. Mr Ferber urged the Commission and the Council to ensure that the money is well spent. It is our job as well, and the committees in this Parliament have to ensure that they are monitoring month in and month out. The last thing we want is a 15% return to the Member States at the end of the day, which is what happened this year when we gave back EUR 15 billion. The Member States are happy about that, but it is not good budgetary practice. – Mr President, on a point of order, I wrote to you with regard to the Sandbaek report and a possible referral back. However, within the last hour there have been developments and I have no need to raise the issue here. – Mr President, I asked to speak in this debate not just because I am a Member from the north-west region of England where the Sellafield plant is situated, not just because there could be 10 000 livelihoods at risk if Sellafield was closed, and not because I have any vested interest in the nuclear industry. I do not. I asked to speak because I want to try and help to get some truth into this debate. The trouble is, when you talk about nuclear issues – especially Sellafield – it is dominated by a distortion of the truth. When Mrs Ahern spoke, she spoke of the NII giving a damning indictment of the plant. No, it did not! She spoke of the damning indictment on safety checks. No, it did not! It made three safety recommendations and the checks were quality assurance checks, as other speakers have said. She said the report came from a press statement in . No, it did not. The workers at BNFL raised the issue. They were the ones who discovered it. BNFL were the ones who told the nuclear installations inspectorate and their customers what had happened. She spoke of contamination of the seas in Ireland and Denmark. I quote from  where seven prominent Danish scientists, who actually study as a professional interest the releases of radioactivity from Sellafield, said on 12 May: "There is no scientific basis for the claim that the present release of radioactivity from Sellafield causes an unacceptable contamination in the North Atlantic and Arctic regions". When your mind is made up facts only confuse the issue! She spoke of the scandal of abuse of safety. That is an absolute insult to the people who work there, and more so to their families who live near that site! Those workers would not work in that plant if they thought it was unsafe. They would certainly not put their families at risk it that was the case. That is an absolute indictment of those people who work there. Then she finished by talking about corruption. That really is the last throw of the dice. Finally, I say to the Commissioner: the one thing you should do, apart from listen, is to pay a visit to Sellafield and find out the facts for yourself. That is the best advice that I can give you and many Members of this Parliament also. – Madam President, I thank the Commissioner for that report. There were not a great many surprises in it and, to some extent, I welcome that. A question remains, however, in relation to redeployment in Category 4. I heard you say there would not be cuts against the poverty lines. You mentioned lines where there was not complete take-up and that there would be cuts in TACIS. Can you give us some idea whether there will be any across-the-board reductions? Last year, the Council proposed a 10% across-the-board cut in Category 4. Is the Commission making selective reductions as you suggested or will they be making any across-the-board cuts in Category 4? I am still unclear as to what happens from the year 2003. If you are taking money from Category 1 for the next two years, where do you expect that money to come from in 2003? – Mr President, I do not doubt that is what the President's notes say, but one of the problems with accepting it is that my notes and those of other Members and of the general rapporteur say differently. The problem is that my notes are in Brussels, not here in Strasbourg, so when I saw this in the Minutes I asked to raise it. Could I ask that we check the audio or video tapes of that voting procedure to establish the actual position? I am of course convinced that what I say is correct, but if I am proved wrong then I am more than happy to accept that. . – Mr President, I welcome Mr Haarder and it is good to see him again in his new role. He knows he is always welcome in this House. Please send our regards to Mr Pedersen; it was good working with him. I do not want to go into detail on many of the issues because I will leave that to both rapporteurs, who have mentioned several items. I would like to concentrate on one or two specific political issues. One concerns the agreement that was reached at conciliation on Category 5. Whilst it left the Council very happy, we in Parliament realised that we had probably made an enemy of the Commission by agreeing to that deal. But let me reiterate why we did so. We were convinced that in no way, shape or form would the Council ever agree to the flexibility instrument being used for Category 5. Therefore we agreed to a deal that would bring benefits for Parliament and the other institutions and a sensible approach to Category 5, not as the Commission wanted. The things we have proposed about frontloading, the use of  and so on are there to ease the pain of the Commission. We know the Commission is going to suffer but we are trying to ease the situation slightly. If there are problems with enlargement because of what has occurred, then the Commission needs to convince the Council, not us, of its needs regarding staffing levels, because some of us are actually convinced. Having said that, we cannot be criticised for the help we have given the Commission in its staffing needs over the last two years. Against the wishes of the Council, we have helped the Commission to increase its establishment plans by several hundred members of staff. So any criticism can only apply to next year. Please bear in mind that we have stood side by side with the Commission. This is an attempt to make the reform a success and to ensure that the Commission has the right people to do the jobs that we expect it to do. I say that because the deal was quite unique. However, Mr Stenmarck and Mr Färm on our committee now have to determine what will constitute the global for this year. That is the task of both our rapporteurs, certainly Mr Stenmarck, who will look at the other institutions to see what money there is left over in their budgets to be put into the pot to ensure that the Commission is not disadvantaged to any great extent. We are aware that what we can find this year will be acceptable, but this leaves the problem of staffing next year, so whatever we can save for next year's budget we will. My other political point concerns the common foreign and security policy. The President-in-Office mentioned it in his speech. Let us be clear on our position. We did not make an agreement on what the amounts are for the CFSP. The amount in this year's budget was EUR 30 million; the amount in the PDB was EUR 40 million and the amount entered in the Council's first reading is EUR 47.5 million. We made no agreements on that and, as far as we are concerned, we stick by Article 39 of the Interinstitutional Agreement. That figure as it stands right now should be EUR 30 million. That is not to say that, come our second reading, the figure may well be EUR 47.5 million but, for the sake of this debate and to clarify issues, our argument is that the Council put the wrong figure in: it should be EUR 30 million. There may be a legal interpretation as to when that disagreement was confirmed but, as far as we are concerned, it was confirmed at the conciliation meeting. Let us not forget that there are problems in other categories also. In Category 2, the EUR 27 million entered for the restructuring of the fleet is not going to appear by magic. We must be serious when we say we must find a way of solving that. It would seem that the only way we can do so is by using the flexibility instrument. The Council may have to have a rethink on that unless it comes forward with a better idea which we have not yet thought of. That is all I want to say on the political aspects. I will leave the rest to the rapporteurs. .–Although I voted in favour of this directive I do have some reservations. Health and safety is of course very important but we must be mindful that we propose texts which are based on sound scientific evidence and research. Having looked into this matter carefully I could not find any concrete scientific evidence to support the proposal concerning whole body vibrations. To put an eight hour limit on working on vehicles such as tractors – I am concerned as to the effect it will have on the farming industry by the nature of their work, but am also concerned that this will effect small farmers and those who work in small quarries and mines the most as they will not have the manpower for a workable rota system. .  Mr President, when I first came in and looked around I thought people were actually here for this debate, but then I suddenly realised that former Commissioner Barnier was about to make his speech! Members have in front of them a report not just from the Committee on Budgets, but one that has attempted to take on board the opinions of the other committees. In doing so, we have tried to include at least three or four priorities which they consider to be paramount priorities, and then ask the Commission and the Council, in paragraph 31, to at least look at all the Annexes to get a feel for what the other committees are trying to do. I say that because I have had a letter from one of my fellow chairmen actually complaining about this procedure, but we thought it was a fair way of proceeding and one that would give everyone a chance to have their say. The thrust of the report is not to make concrete proposals, but to lay down guidelines for the next Parliament. The idea is that we in the present Parliament should not do anything definitive, but should at least give an opinion how we think negotiations should proceed in the next Parliament. My job as rapporteur for this report, rather than as chairman, is to defend the position of the Committee on Budgets. As a result, I am not here to recommend acceptance of any of the 22 amendments that we have before us, although I feel Amendments Nos 3 and 5 do help in the wording. I will leave such decisions to my political group. I am fascinated by the amendments from my British Conservative colleagues in the name of Mr Bradbourn and others, especially Amendments Nos 17, 18 and 19. Amendments Nos 17 and 18 ask that there be a maximum of 1% GNI for the Community budget, and Amendment No 19 is about renationalisation of the structural funds. As a British Labour Member I very much welcome the approach of my Conservative colleagues, who are now endorsing Gordon Brown's proposals. I am sure this will please him! I am still confused about Amendments Nos 20 and 21, but will speak to Mr Bradbourn about those later. However, whilst I may welcome them as a British Labour Member, I am here not as a British Labour Member but as a rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, and cannot support them. As I said, Amendments Nos 17 and 18 asked for a maximum 1% GNI for own resources. My preference is for the existing paragraph 17, which states that we should evaluate our political priorities, then their needs, and only then should Parliament decide on what the level of own resources should be. When President Prodi first presented the Commission's proposals I made the point that between 1988 and 2002, under the existing financial perspective, the amount of payments had indeed averaged out at 1% of GNP. Of course, if the average is 1% there will have been times when that 1% was exceeded. If you look at paragraphs 10, 11 and 12 of the report, it actually says that we should be looking at the priorities and then deciding what that average overall should be. It could well be that after making the evaluation and looking at the political priorities we end up with a figure of 1% of GNI. Paragraph 19 would seem to indicate a higher figure, but looking at this sensibly and pragmatically, we could get any figure and 1% cannot be ruled out. However, that is a decision not for this Parliament, but for the new one, as is the timeframe. The reason for this is to ensure the involvement of the new members from the ten new Member States, along with the ten new Commissioners. As I said earlier, this report does not aim to take decisions, but to enable the new Parliament to do so while also, along with the new Commission and the Council, to at least take note of what we are saying. To repeat one other point I made in the first debate on this issue, I would remind the Council that the Interinstitutional Agreement is only an interinstitutional agreement when the institutions keep to it between themselves. In other words, Parliament is a key player in this. It is not a bit-part player in the process. It is a major player and I hope the other institutions recognise that. This is probably the last time I will address this Parliament as chairman of the Committee on Budgets. I would like to say what a great privilege and what a great job it has been. .  Mr President, Mr Méndez de Vigo telephoned me last week to inform me of Ecofin’s proposals, and Mr Hänsch came to our committee on Monday of this week. On both occasions, I was absolutely dumbfounded as to what they told us. I cannot believe that the Council is taking on board the proposals from Ecofin in the budgetary area. As a Brit, I can say that, on the issue of own resources, I understand why it is doing this. Whether it is right is a different issue. On the other two issues of the financial perspectives and the budgetary procedure, it really is a step too far. To take such action would neuter this Parliament. There would be no need for a Budgets Committee if this were agreed at the IGC. Quite frankly, we would be castrated with a pair of rusty scissors. We do not need this type of so-called 'dominance' from the Council. Parliament has given a lot in trying to get an agreement at the Convention  and the Council also claims that it has done the same. But the one thing we have given is the acceptance of the financial perspectives enshrined in the Treaty. Right now, if we break the Interinstitutional Agreement, we go back to the Treaty, which gives Parliament a lot more power and a lot more authority. We have sacrificed this in order to get an agreement, which is a more cooperative approach and would mean that we work together in cooperation. However, what we have here is not cooperation but coercion from the Council. This cannot be allowed to go ahead and every effort must be made to ensure that it is prevented. . – I feel that I need to give you some information in light of Mr Dover’s speech. Earlier, you called Mr Heaton-Harris to speak for the Budgetary Control Committee and he was not here, and he is still not here. I think I know the reason why – because he is knackered or should I say ‘physically exhausted’ following a football match this afternoon between British Labour Members and British Conservative Members which the Labour Members won by 7 goals to 1. However, Mr Dover and so were also involved. You expect Labour members to stand the pace! Since he is here, I think Mr Dover should be congratulated, not for what he said, but because he is present here tonight when Mr Heaton-Harris is not, and he is a much younger man. . – Mr President, we have tried to work closely with Mr Cunha and the other rapporteurs to ensure that when we take the final vote on this we comply with Rule 63a of our Rules of Procedure. The amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgets state that the figures do comply with the financial perspectives up to 2006. However, during this vote several amendments have been adopted which have not been assessed. The assessments are carried out in conjunction with the Commission to ensure that the figures are within the financial perspective. In the light of the votes on these amendments, could the Commission inform us whether those figures remain within the financial perspective? If they do, that is fine; if they do not, then the wording needs to be changed from 'do comply' to 'do not comply', for factual reasons if nothing else. If Commissioner Fischler does not know the answer now, I suggest, if the House agrees with Mr Cunha, that when the assessment is finalised we make sure that the correct wording goes in the final text for the . Mr President, can I first of all thank the President-in-Office for his opening remarks and especially his remarks about the good working relationship that we have had between the Parliament and the Council. It is fair to say that relationship has been open and honest and we have tried to get agreements where we can. I thank the French Presidency and the staff of the French permanent representation in Brussels. I can give good examples. When we had the ad hoc procedures, items were taken on board like the extra milk for schools, 18 million out of the EUR 94 billion budget. It was small items like that which we actually got some agreement on. There was a consensus on the new employment initiative which we are all looking for and there were items like the Fisheries Agreement which we could talk through quite sensibly. That is the positive side. Of course there is a downside, even in our good working relationship. The downside starts with the things I said before we had the conciliation, during the conciliation and now after Council has voted and produced its draft budget. We are disappointed at the attitude of the Council and its unwillingness to discuss the revision of the Financial Perspective. As far as we are concerned, the Interinstitutional Agreement and Article 20 stipulate that once the Commission had made that proposal, our two institutions were duty bound to actually discuss that proposal. We were told in no uncertain terms that no way would it be discussed. I will say what I said at the conciliation. The Council's attitude was "hell will freeze over before we will discuss a revision of the Financial Perspective with Parliament". I will reiterate another thing I said: Parliament is not a bit part player in this process, it has a valid role to play. Having said that, we take it as read now that there will be no revision because of what the Council has produced and also because we for our part want to be sensible about this whole process even though there may be no revision. That still leaves us options and decisions to be taken over the coming weeks. The biggest disappointment was on category 4 and especially the western Balkans. Parliament has sent a special delegation to Kosovo to look at its needs. We have spoken to all the major actors and organisations. We have had a hearing and the figure that we come up with  is EUR 814 million for the western Balkans for next year.  I say that with reservations because I am assuming this is the figure that we will come up with. According to all the colleagues that I have spoken to it is the same figure that the Commission has. Forget the figure of EUR 5.5 billion, we are not talking about that, we are talking about next year. Yet the Council comes up with a figure of EUR 614 million and if we look at the explanatory memorandum from the Council that is the figure in the light of the international financial institutions' estimates. That is funny because we have consulted the same international financial institutions and we get a different figure. The reality is it is guesswork on your part. It is a matter of fitting things under the ceiling rather than being objective in your approach to the western Balkans. I just wish the Council would be honest enough to say: we think the western Balkans is becoming a black hole into which we are pouring too much money. I just wish you would be honest enough to say: look we think it has to be reduced because we do not think it is achieving very much. We have a situation where foreign ministers are saying one thing and finance ministers are saying another thing and that does not help anyone. The Council needs to get its act together on this issue. It still leaves us with the problem of what we have to do at first reading. The Council also says that it wants to reduce payments, which is understandable. The ideal position for the Council is to have no payments whatsoever, but you have some obligations in this matter. Our worry is what happens to the backlog? It has to be paid some time. Thankfully, Mrs Haug, our rapporteur, will be doing an assessment of each individual line to get some idea of needs, but we still have a situation where although you want to reduce payments the Cohesion Fund is actually increased and again the explanatory memorandum gives no reason for that. No reason is needed because we know why – it is about horse-trading within the Council. In a normal horse-trading situation you usually end up with a horse. Too often the Council ends up with a donkey and this is another occasion when you are going to end up with a donkey because the decisions you have taken have not been based on objective assessments but on horse-trading within the Council. On category 3, there are some weird and wonderful proposals, many of which I mentioned during the conciliation process, but there is one which appears once again in your wonderful document the explanatory memorandum, on line B3/309. I need to ask a question about this because I am confused. It says: "It is to be increased by EUR 1.25 million for the Special World Olympic Games in 2003". We are talking about the 2001 budget, but this is for the Special World Olympic Games in 2003. The disabled games are held a month after the normal Olympics, which means that they will take place in Athens sometime in October or November 2004. So what are the 2003 Special World Olympic Games and why are we putting them in the 2001 budget? Is this another matter of horse-trading? God forbid that it should be, but it may well be just another of those situations. Whilst we have been awaiting the amending letter from the Commission on its staffing needs, we see that the Council has reduced the Commission's administrative expenditure by EUR 25 million. That is on top of the EUR 14 million announced by the Commission after publication of the PDB. We now have a EUR 39 million cut. I thought that the Council was supposed to wait until we had received the letter of amendment before making any significant changes. We have a joint role in this matter. The letter of amendment is quite a significant document. We began discussing it yesterday in the Committee on Budgets. We will continue discussing it at 5.30 p.m. today, and those discussions will go on. It is a good document, there is no doubt about that, but a lot of questions still need to be answered, for instance on the early retirement scheme and not just where the Commission is concerned, because the proposals being made could well have a knock-on effect for other institutions. That is why, Mr President-in-Office, we need information from you as soon as possible about the attitude of the Council. I do not doubt for one minute that you will consider the matter carefully, as you have said, but we need to know how far the Council will be going along with the Commission proposals, especially when it comes to the early retirement scheme. Whilst we can agree or disagree with most of what the Commission is proposing, at the end of the day the Council has to bring forward the legislation for the early retirement scheme. So our two institutions need to sit down and talk this through. I would hate this to degenerate into a ping-pong battle between them. We need to agree on a real assessment of the Commission's needs. If we want the Commission to do the job which we are always asking it to do, then at least in the three institutions we need to be clear about what we are asking it to do and what staffing levels are required. As to what is next, we in Parliament need to make some hard decisions, not least on the letter of amendment and especially category IV. If we go along with what is proposed in the draft budget or indeed with the PDB, a lot of Parliament's favourite areas, be they NGOs, Asia, Latin America or whatever, will be affected. So our committees, which are voting at present, will be submitting their proposals as soon as they can and we will take the necessary decisions at the end of this month. But the plea I make to the Commission is to give us some early indication of what it is going to propose for the Notenboom procedure. That would help us tremendously. What is contained within the Notenboom procedure could actually relieve our plight next year. If you can front-load the areas of concern this year and we can carry over into next year or at least use this year, which will lighten the burden for next year, then a lot of our problems can be eased. I am sure that our institutions can come to a settlement along those lines, and then we will have a decent budget at the end of this year. – Madam President, after the serious business may I end on a lighter note, with some good news for the region I represent, the north-west of England. The English papers yesterday and today seem to be dominated by one issue, the memorable historic match when England beat Germany by five goals to one. The reason it is such good news for us – and I offer commiserations to my German colleagues – is that the main architects of that victory came from the major clubs in the north west – although we did have a Swedish manager. I hope this shows people that the north-west region of England is a centre of excellence, not just for football but for many other things as well and I invite you all to go whenever you can. – Mr President, I speak as a friend of Fiji, as someone who has followed events there for many years. I have friends and acquaintances there and have been there. When I spoke to the politicians the last time I was there three or four years ago the one thing they were all pleased about was the new constitution which had taken four years to put together, and when I saw the events of recent times my heart sank because I knew the consequences for that country. I should like clarification from you, Commissioner. From what you said, I assume you are saying no sanctions, that it is a matter of wait and see and giving them time to sort themselves out before we take any action. I would like clarity on that point. I do not want to walk away from here just assuming that; it would be helpful if you could be more explicit. Mr Ford has called for Fiji to be banned from all sporting events. My sport happens to be a minority sport – rugby league football – and in October or November the World Cup will be taking place in the UK and in France. Fiji will have a squad there as part of the World Cup. The Australian Government wants them banned. The Australian Government thinks that Fiji should not take part in this competition. If you speak to the players, whether they be Asian, Polynesian or Melanesian, they will say they want to play, of course. My specific question to you, Commissioner, is would the Commission advocate sporting bans at this time or not? . – Mr President, the Committee on Budgets is sympathetic to the needs of our friends in the Committee on Fisheries. However, a conciliation meeting will be taking place on 21 November and it is not yet agreed between the different institutions how the agreement will be finalised, or indeed in what category it will be finalised. In the light of a decision by the Budgets Council last week, there is a great deal of confusion on our side as to how we are going to deal with this. I would ask that we do not treat this as urgent and that it be held over until after the conciliation meeting of 21 November. – Madam President, as you said earlier, this will be a long process. Normally we like to streamline the budget votes so that we can get through them in as quick a time as possible. However, we have a lot of amendments on this occasion. Whilst I respect people's democratic right to table amendments, can I just warn Members of this House that if some of the amendments which are not in the general framework agreement between the groups are voted, then we will begin to exceed ceilings and we will have to stop the vote.  We have no margins in virtually all the categories. If this vote does not go as we had planned, then just be aware that I may be standing up, or Mrs Haug may be standing up, to say we have to stop the vote. We can then assess what we can vote on.  I would like to make two pleas. One is to our colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture who have tabled over 30 amendments. The amending letter will be coming forward before second reading and that is when we will take final decisions on agricultural issues. If I could ask them to withdraw those amendments it would save a lot of time.  I would also ask Mr Heaton-Harris and his colleagues if they could withdraw their 33 amendments. Once again that will save us a tremendous amount of time. I must say the 33 amendments are far better than the 393 that were tabled by Mr Heaton-Harris and his colleagues in committee. So we have to be grateful there are only 33, but I would welcome it if he would withdraw them. It would speed this process up considerably. . – Mr President, it is exactly the same point. Four amendments have been voted which are in addition to what the committee voted. Our amendments say they are compatible. Unless we can get an assurance right now that they are, then we need to change the wording to 'not'. Can I ask you to follow the same procedure? This will apply to all the other reports on this item and will save me from constantly getting up. – Madam President, the Committee on Budgets decided that it would be wise to draw up a report on this subject. As a consensus could not be reached on the person to draft it, it decided that the Chairman of the committee should also be the rapporteur and I was left with the wonderful task of putting this report together. Because of that, I am wearing three hats at the same time – if that is possible. I wear one hat as the rapporteur and reflect the wishes of the committee in the way it has voted and amended the original draft. I wear another hat as the Chairman of the committee, thereby keeping an eye on the rapporteur. I wear my third hat as a British Labour Member who is at odds with a number of amendments from his own political family, the PSE. It has not been easy trying to put those three together. It is fair to say that the only change I attempted to make to this report was to try to merge Paragraphs 6 and 8 to make it more coherent. However, I failed to achieve a consensus amongst the political groups and, therefore, the report stands as it is. If I could change those hats – which I cannot because I am wearing my hat as the rapporteur – and if I were speaking as a British Labour Member, then I would approve Mrs Buitenweg's text as it reads well, it is simple, concise and, in particular, it does not make any big deal about own-resources! However, I would run a mile – well perhaps I could manage half a mile – from the amendments by the PSE Group! Let me make it absolutely clear that I am not speaking as a British Labour Member and, therefore, I cannot say those things. I have to wear my hat as the rapporteur and speak as the rapporteur, knowing full well that the Chairman is keeping a watchful eye on what I say. In fairness, the report is acceptable to all the political groups. The vote was almost unanimous in committee, but there are one or two small points of disagreement on own-resources. That is why the PSE Group has tabled two amendments. What we are all agreed upon is that the budget procedure needs to be simplified. That is quite clear. The own-resources system in this age of transparency is completely opaque and no one outside the Committee on Budgets or the Budget Directorate-General understands what it is about and how it is made up. Codecision is needed and, therefore, compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure need to be eradicated. This is stated quite simply in the first three paragraphs of Mrs Buitenweg's report. We need to reform, update and simplify our procedures. There is a need for the budgetary system to be more transparent, comprehensive and democratic, and the codecision procedure should apply to all legislation, including the Financial Regulation and the budgetary procedure. Under those conditions, compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure would disappear. I hope when we vote on this – I am sure the vote will be successful – that we can send this along to the members of the Convention and that our Parliament representatives on the Convention can present this as Parliament's position for the future. – Mr President, Mr Färm, the rapporteur, has said all that I was going to say. I simply wanted to thank the presidency but also the sessional services for all the work they do to ensure that this process goes through so smoothly. . – Mr President, this Brok-Wynn report has some fundamental statements in it. The first one, in the first paragraph, is our commitment to making sure that enlargement takes place on 1 May 2004. Let us be clear: that it is an objective which we all want to reach. But in achieving that objective, I for one will not see the rights of Parliament sacrificed. We have a battle going on at present between two institutions as to what Parliament's rights are and what they are not. Whether the Council respects our rights and our prerogatives remains to be seen. Paragraphs 3 and 4 spell out some pretty clear pictures. Paragraph 3 warns the Member States that if Article 32 and Annex XV are maintained in the Accession Treaty in their current form, Parliament will regard this as an infringement of its prerogatives in budgetary matters. Paragraph 4 goes on to say that the Parliament ‘considers the Member States' approach to be a breach of the principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions’ and that it ‘interprets this approach as a signal that the Council intends to abandon the Interinstitutional Agreement and the Financial Perspective included therein’. Those are not threats, but statements. I guarantee you now there will be no IAA if Annex XV goes into the treaties unamended or without any guarantees that Parliament's rights can be maintained. I now turn to Paragraphs 6 and 7 in the current text of the report. There will be an amendment from the PPE-DE and PSE Groups to Paragraphs 6 and 7, to remove the figures, to delete Paragraph 7, and to put in a statement which will mention our rights again, because this is what this debate is all about. Tomorrow we will have a trialogue and, hopefully, we will try to get an agreement on a draft declaration. If we get that agreement, it would certainly be the minimum that I could accept because what we will be doing is agreeing a declaration on how to violate the Treaty. That is what we are doing. We are going to agree on how we can violate the Treaty because of Annex XV. For many years this Parliament and the Committee on Budgets have fought for the rights and the prerogatives of this institution. We are not here to sell those rights for 30 pieces of silver. Even if we can agree figures for category 3 in this declaration, do not take that as a sign of Parliament selling itself just for a small amount of money. I do not intend to be known as the Chairman of the Budgets Committee who sold out those rights for such a small amount of money. My job as Chairman is to make sure that the rights and privileges that we fought for over so many years are maintained, and I intend to do that. I make it clear now, and I said it in the Budgets Committee, that if Annex XV is maintained in its current form and if we have no guarantees about our rights I will vote against the Accession Treaty documents. I may be the only person in this room to do so but I will certainly vote against because I feel that strongly about it. If we get an agreement in the trialogue tomorrow, we can all celebrate. There will be something to be cheerful about. If we do not get an agreement, I should like to point out to the Greek Presidency that if there is another trialogue next week, it can certainly be held in Athens because two of us from that body will be there next week. We can have the trialogue in Athens and try again. If, at the end of the day, we cannot get an agreement – and this is the important point – I have no doubt that this House will not delay the vote on 9 April. The loyalty of this House, as Elmar Brok has said, is to get enlargement in place. But I will tell you one thing, colleagues: you will not have an interinstitutional agreement and war will have been declared as far as the budget goes for 2004. – Mr President, we have never done anything like this before and I welcome the opportunity to open this debate. In normal, run-of-the-mill circumstances when we have the budget debate, we have already voted on first readings in committee, we come to the Chamber and most of us make a three-minute speech if we are lucky or, if not, a one and a half minute speech. What is more, they are statements and nothing is really gained because the work has already been done. What we are trying to gain from this session is a real dialogue, mainly with the Commission, but also with the Council, to seek guidance on how we should vote next week and to ask questions concerning events since the preliminary draft budget (PDB) was first presented. Since the PDB several things have happened, including the Council's vote on its draft budget which is what we vote upon. Our committees have been working with the rapporteurs to ensure that we can bring forward sensible amendments. As always, the amendments in front of us always exceed the amount of money that is available. It is the job of both our rapporteurs to assess those amendments. No doubt during the debate you will be asked questions concerning what you think of some of those amendments. We also have the situation of a more precise legislative programme since the PDB and we need to assess the changes. We have had external events such as the floods and we want to know how these will affect next year's budget. From our own perspective there are areas where we are unclear on how things will be funded. For instance, we still have no agreement with the Council or the Commission on how the EUR 27 million in Category 2 for the fisheries reconstruction programme will be found. Maybe someone will ask about that and if there are any ideas we will be grateful to hear them. A prime objective of the Development Committee is to ensure that the Global Health Fund has a significant amount of money. One of the reasons for this is that if we do not put in significant amounts the European Union may not have a seat at the table – a seat on the board. Is that true? What amounts do we need? I would hope that this issue will also be raised with the Commission so we can have guidance on it. With those few opening remarks, let me thank not only the Commission in general but also the individual Commissioners who are going to contribute to this debate. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for being here. I hope the debate will be useful, fruitful and influence our votes next week in committee, because if it does not we will all have wasted four hours of our time. Mr President, to follow on from that, the figures that we have been given  the Copenhagen figures  are actually lower than the figures provided subsequently. Therefore, the Copenhagen figures could not have been maximum figures, since the figures that we have seen since are actually larger. I would like to have the Commissioner's view of what will happen if the Council puts the Copenhagen figures into the accession treaties. As you know, we will be discussing this next week with the Presidency in Athens. But as a Parliament, we face the dilemma that the Council may put in these figures to make sure that we vote for the accession treaties. If that is the case, what about Article 25 of the Interinstitutional Agreement and what role will Parliament have in renegotiating or reassessing the financial perspective? If the Council does that, how would the Commissioner assess the value of the financial perspective? – Mr President, we are in a strange situation because a decision was taken in the groups before the Committee on Budgets had decided on this issue of Montenegro. Also, I have not had a chance to speak to my good friend Mr Westendorp. I believe that the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy is sympathetic to the position of the Committee on Budgets, which I am about to state. However, since I have not spoken to him directly, do not quote me on that – it is only second-hand information. Firstly, I should like to make it clear that the Committee on Budgets supports any aid to Montenegro. It has done so in the past and will do so in the future. On this occasion there is no urgency for this to go through now. The monies will not be made available until August for the first tranche and the second tranche will be paid at the end of the year. We are of the opinion that the relevant committees need to study the details of this proposal. Whichever the lead committee is – Foreign Affairs or Industry – we would merely give an opinion, but those committees and Parliament need to evaluate these proposals. We should not be bounced into a decision because the Council deems it to be necessary. As for budgets, our main concern is where the money is coming from. It is great to make proposals but we feel this urgency should not be agreed upon until we know where the money is coming from. We should leave it until next month. The committees can debate it and we can vote on it at the June part-session. – Mr President, in relation to yesterday's Minutes, under item 2 in the errata section there is a comment about Amendment No 742 on the budget. The general rapporteur and I would disagree with what is printed here, but I am not too sure what the correction should be. Before we agree that as a Minute, can we have an investigation into what exactly the vote was on so as to clarify the situation? . – Mr President, I am a somewhat unexpected rapporteur for this report. The report is in my name because the person who has done all the work on this, the standing rapporteur for the financial perspective, Mr Colom i Naval, decided after a lot of consideration that he could not present it to Parliament. I know his reasons why. I have spoken to him about them. I can respect those reasons but I am somewhat saddened that he is not giving this report instead of me. For the last three years the flexibility instrument has been the main aspect of the budget and it has overshadowed everything else. On this occasion we are using it for two programmes, as has been said by speakers before me. I do not have to outline what that is, but I have to outline one small problem which we have not yet resolved, that is, how the remaining money – the EUR 27 million for the reconversion of the Spanish fisheries fleet – will be found for the budget after next year. That remains an issue on which I am sure the Commission will be creative and inventive when it comes to next year's budget – to make sure that money can be found, because it is certainly expected. When the interinstitutional agreement was agreed, the flexibility instrument was one of the items which was reluctantly agreed by both sides – reluctantly from our side because there was a lot of resistance to the IIA anyway. Do not forget that it was passed in this Parliament by a simple majority, not by a qualified majority. That was an issue in itself. The Council did not really like this idea anyway. If I remember correctly it was the Commission that proposed it as a way out of the impasse. It is a good job that it was proposed because it has 'saved our bacon' for the last three years. In the first instance it was the great debate on how to fund Kosovo. The Council did not want to use it and we went to the wire, if you can remember that famous occasion in this Chamber when we each had two voting lists. Then last year it was on how to fund Serbia. That in itself was a problem and now on this occasion we have how to fund the reconversion of the fisheries fleet and also the cross-border initiatives. These last three years have shown the creaking structure of the financial perspective. I am sure that this is a point that Mr Colom i Naval would have made. We have a situation where the financial perspective has great problems with heading 3, heading 4 and certainly heading 5. Unless Parliament and Council begin to get some sort of agreement on how to fund these categories in the future, the consequences will be there for all to see. It is the consequences of pre-enlargement. It is not necessarily enlargement itself. The preparations for pre-enlargement will be as big a headache as the enlargement issue itself. We also have the needs of Afghanistan, or perhaps I should say the unknown needs of Afghanistan. What are we going to do about that? What are we going to do if we get a hoped-for peace agreement in the Middle East? Where is that money going to come from? There is no room at present in heading 4. I have heard rumours that the Commission may be proposing an extra flexibility instrument for heading 4. If it does, it will be a welcome addition, but whether it would be agreed by the Council is a different matter. This head-in-the-sand attitude cannot prevail if we are trying to be serious about how we manage the Union's budget and the taxpayers' expenses in the future. The negotiations with the Belgian presidency at the second conciliation were 100% better than the first conciliation, which was a waste of time, as I made known last time. At least this time it was good to do business with the Belgians, as it was last time when I was general rapporteur for the 1994 budget. There are areas where we have our differences, such as in heading 3 where we have always had difficulties. In heading 5, one of the main areas where we differ is in our support for the Commission on the reform programme, especially on the establishment plan and the posts that are needed. However, whilst we have agreed on the establishment plan, the Committee on Budgets voted for one third of those posts in reserve, albeit by a one-vote majority. The coordinators and the rapporteur are working very hard to try to ensure that we can get a position which will deliver a qualified majority on Thursday because if we do not, we may end up with the Council's position which would not aid the Commission's reform process as we would want it to do. I have seen the letter that Commissioners Schreyer, Kinnock and de Palacio have written, where they state that the conditions for release of the reserve have been met. If I was not the chairman of the Committee on Budgets I would say that I agree with those sentiments, but since I am the chairman of the Committee on Budgets I could not possibly say any such thing. I would like you to know that hopefully, between the vote on Thursday and the not-too-distant future, we can all be in a position where we can see the Commission's proposals coming to fruition and we can get on with the job of making Europe the place that the citizens expect it to be and not associated with the great mystique that it represents for too many of them right now. – Madam President, last night the Committee on Budgets and, I understand, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy discussed this matter. There is no problem with urgency being granted and we can do it without report and without debate. . – Mr President, at times we have sounded like a mutual admiration society in the way in which we have congratulated one another on this. I may just deviate from that trend slightly in relation to the Council – not necessarily the French Presidency – but the Council in general. Let us not kid ourselves, this is a good budget. It is not the budget that I or many of my colleagues would have wanted. However, we can be satisfied with it. In football terms it is like a l-1 draw. However, because of the flexibility instrument, we think we have won the penalty shoot-out. The Commission's original proposal for a revision of the financial perspective to take EUR 300 million from category 1 for category 4 was a worthy idea: worthy of support and eminently sensible. Unfortunately, a majority of my colleagues did not agree with me and therefore we could not go along with it. Neither was there a qualified majority within this House to revert to Article 272. Therefore, we had to find a solution within the means that the interinstitutional agreement affords us so that we could get a decent budget. That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis by going to Article 272; the financial perspective has been maintained, even though we have used the flexibility instrument. The result is the best that we can hope for without either a revision or Article 272. Mr Colom i Naval made his remarks this morning because it was clear to those of us who were present when the IIA was agreed that the flexibility instrument should not be used for the same purposes in consecutive years. I admire the answer Mrs Parly gave this morning but we have turned a blind eye to that. Kosovo and Serbia are in effect the same thing. We have ignored what we agreed. We have also said that the flexibility instrument would not be an annual reserve for category 4 but that is exactly what it has become. That is why it is not only Mr Colom i Naval who is frustrated at the way things have developed over this budgetary procedure in the last two years. It must be said, and I put it on record, that the French presidency has been a good partner in trying to find solutions. On classification, I have no problem with the two points that were raised: pensions are compulsory expenditure. What we are talking about is an early-retirement scheme which as yet has no legal base; no one knows whether what will be proposed is compulsory or non-compulsory and it is, after all, a p.m. that is on the line. On the fisheries agreement, we have only changed the remarks for the A lines. In other words, the remarks which concern non-compulsory expenditure. In both cases we have not changed any figures. There should not be a clash on that. Just because we have a budget and we have agreed a deal at conciliation, let us not imagine that all our problems have disappeared. The problems will remain until we sort out what we are going to do about external expenditure. There are times when I foolishly assumed this year that once the Commission had made its proposals for a revision we could reach an agreement with the Council. I was wrong. Then when I discovered that there would be no discussions on that revision regarding Article 25 of the IIA, I was, to say the least, somewhat disappointed. The Council's attitude in this game of football seems to be not to worry about the ball but to get on with the game. Let me just say to the Council that, as far as this game is concerned, we have not run out of balls and this side intends playing until we get the right result. Finally, I thank all those who have been involved in this – not just the rapporteurs – but also the secretariat of the Commission, Parliament services and the political group staff. – Mr President, let us not lose sight of the fact that the Färm report is about giving Parliament some guidelines for the conciliation that will take place on 19 July. If this year's conciliation is anything like last year's then I for one have no desire to attend. I can find something far better to do on a Friday than sit there facing the Council. We make our case on the three areas of discussion and the Council then ignores everything. Those three areas are agriculture, fisheries and CFSP. As regards agriculture we can make the points made by our colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture, especially the priorities which they see for agriculture, and we can talk about category 2 and the CFSP. I would like to pick up a point made by Commissioner Schreyer – and this is what I heard through the English interpretation, not the Finnish interpretation – when she said that EUR 59 million would be needed and the flexibility instrument would have to be used. One point is that we do not yet have a common fisheries policy. If and when we do have one, that will be a problem for next year. However, we still have the problem of the EUR 27 million and I await with interest to see what the Council will do with that sum on 19 July. Once we know the Council's intentions, then we can make some decision as to what to do ourselves. The third aspect is the CFSP. As Mr Titley said, we will be supportive of a lot of the things that have been mentioned, but the increase of EUR 10 million in the CFSP means that something else in category 4 has to give. That is a dilemma for us. There are areas where I would hope we can get decisions on 19 July, which makes it worthwhile for me at least to go. That will be on category 5 and probably as regards the category 4 flexibility instrument if there is going to be such a thing. It is obvious that the Council will never agree to a new flexibility instrument, but if we can get some agreement on using the existing emergency reserves in a similar way for category 4, which would be by a codecision procedure, we may make some headway. But category 5 is the big area. It is obvious that Council will want us to agree at their first reading to their proposals for category 5. I do not think that is possible but if we could get an agreement as to what we want to do throughout the year, then we can come to some conclusions. We should also give serious consideration to frontloading for next year in category 5. Mr Podestà's report has highlighted underspends in this year's budget. In category 5 last year, EUR 70 million was underspent. On average in category 5, there is EUR 50 million underspent each year. If we can take the underspends from this year and use a global  for all the institutions, then we may find some method of frontloading to save the pains of next year's budget. Hopefully if we can do that, then we will make some progress with the Council and it will be worth going. – Mr President, I just want to raise two points: one concerns the extra money in category 3 that we negotiated with the Council at the last Conciliation Committee meeting concerning the deal at Copenhagen, mainly concerned with the codecision procedures. I would like to remind the other committees that what we are trying to do, or at least what we and the Commission are trying to do is to ensure a legislative proposal is presented to Parliament and to the Council this year, hopefully between July and September, so that we can actually enshrine in legislation the amounts needed between now and the end of 2006. That of course means the committees which are involved in codecision reacting rather swiftly to make sure that we have that information so that we can make sure that this budget is complete. This is because what we want to do is to have a trialogue and a conciliation meeting with the Council in July to formalise this, not just for the 2004 budget, but also for the other two budgets. The other point I want to make concerns the format in which the budget is now presented. This is the new ABB format which Parliament asked for and insisted upon and which the Commission has now presented. The trouble is we do not know how to use it. We had a presentation last year to inform everyone, which we all conveniently forgot, and have had another presentation this year, but now we have the reality of the situation. We have actually seen the documents in their real true-life format, which means that we do not know how to make amendments to them. The fact that we work to financial perspectives within different categories or with different categories means that if we use the ABB system we will not know what the ceilings are within the different categories. So in the next 20 minutes, when we meet as the Committee on Budgets, Members – because we are simple souls after all – will have the new budget presented in two formats: one in the ABB which we have insisted upon, and one in the old format which we can understand. What we have to decide, when it comes to the votes later in the year, is how we are going to vote. This is an important issue and I want to thank the Commission for presenting the budget in the new format, whatever problems we have with it. I am sure it will give a lot more transparency and enable a lot more understanding in the long run. When we have a new financial perspective – who knows – it may even be in line with the ABB format of budgeting. Who knows?! – Mr President, you still have to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether the Council agrees with this budget. – Mr President, I would not normally do this at the start of business, but since it has now been confirmed that the death of the policeman in Manchester was the act of a terrorist, could I ask you, as President, to write to the family of Stephen Oake and to the Greater Manchester Police expressing our sincere regret and our absolute abhorrence of this act, because it is linked to terrorism. It is not a normal policeman's death in the course of his duty. It is an issue which concerns all of us in this House in every country. I am sure the gesture would be appreciated by the officer's family and the people of the Greater Manchester area and the United Kingdom. –Mr President, whilst the Council has made this request and we are quite happy to do what we can to ensure that things are speeded up, there is no need to vote on this urgency today. It is planned for our agenda in May. The way the finances are at present, there will be no problem in financing the High Representative in Bosnia-Herzegovina, whose money is guaranteed until the end of this year, as are also the substantial funds available for the UNMIK operation there. We can leave this until next month. – Mr President, after 15 minutes from Mr Färm and 10 minutes from Mr Stenmarck and all the other contributions, there is not much left to say. I was giving evidence recently to one of the subcommittees of the Convention, chaired by Mr Amato, on simplification. I made the point that the language of the budget is probably the twelfth language in this institution. Listening to this debate, where the words 'ramassage' and 'frontloading' are being used so often, it seems as though they have become part of the everyday lexicon of our budget language. I also said that we need only one reading of the budget, and that would simplify the whole process. Had that system applied today, I am sure we would not have voted for the budget that we now have. I say that because a lot of people are concerned about the way in which this budget will be voted on Thursday. I do not just mean the Commission and the Council, but colleagues from a variety of parliamentary committees. I want to make one point absolutely clear to anyone who shares these worries: this is, after all, a first reading to show we have political priorities and to put some pressure on the Council, it is not the end of the story. These concerns have arisen because of what the committee adopted. We exceeded the ceilings in three categories – in category 1b we will have to see how Parliament votes on Thursday. On category 2, we are duty-bound to find a solution with the Council. On category 4, we also need to find a solution together with the Council. That is why the decisions have been taken in category 4, to try to ensure that there will be real dialogue with the Council to solve some of the political problems in that area. As others have said, the ceiling on category 4 has been a problem ever since we concluded the interinstitutional agreement. Every year since then we have had to use the flexibility instrument. Some may agree with Mr Seppänen that the agreement is stupid. I am one of those who voted for it. That might make me stupid, but the reality is that this Parliament agreed it, and we have to live with it and within its restrictions. I hope that when it comes to the next interinstitutional agreement we will have learnt lessons from this one, especially in category 4. However, this time the needs in category 4 – especially in the areas of Afghanistan and the Global Health Fund – have to be sorted out. On the Global Health Fund, there are certainly big differences of opinion between the Commission, the Council and ourselves. To make it worse, at least one Member State is asking us to find the extra EUR 65 million, which complicates matters when we know what the Council's position is already. When I say it has to be sorted out, I mean we have to find a real solution with the Council, not going into a conciliation or trialogues and playing the usual games. We have serious problems in these areas and we need a real sense of cooperation. It must be said that we have had a good working relationship with the Danish presidency. We should not condemn the Danish presidency for not being here. They have apologised to me and explained that they have other commitments. The fact that the President-in-Office sat for 4 ½ hours at our last meeting showed his commitment. They have been quite good in the way they have worked with Parliament. They have respected Parliament and Parliament's will. The Danish presidency has been good to work with. As Mrs Buitenweg said, the presidency has also been good today, even in the videoconference on the European Solidarity Fund. But let us hope that those good relationships can continue as we go into the next conciliation, prior to the second reading by the Council. I also made the point at the Convention that, in contrast to the American War of Independence, where the cry was 'no taxation without representation', we in this Parliament have the luxury of having representation without taxation. That makes the Council often think that we are profligate with taxpayers' money. The message we need to give to the Council is that the budgets we vote here are serious and prudent, but they have political priorities. I hope that, in December, we will have achieved some of those political priorities. . – Mr President, looking around we could have met in the bar. It would have been a lot more cosy than this. It is nice to see those of you who are here. Whilst this appears on the agenda as the Wynn report, it has only just become the Wynn report. It was the Costa Neves report. Carlos Costa Neves, who was the budget rapporteur for 2002, has now moved on to the Portuguese Government, and I for one was sorry to see him leave. He has done a sterling job and I want to put on record my thanks for the work that he has done on the 2002 Budget. I understand that the PPE-DE group have now nominated Mr Podestà as the new rapporteur. So I am the in-between bit. Hence you have the Wynn report on Supplementary and Amending Budget No 2. The Council and one or two Members are concerned about the amendments that we have tabled. The Member States, quite rightly, want the money back that was not spent last year. This amounts to around EUR 10 billion, a significant amount of money. It is not the total amount, however, because one amount went back last year, and there is probably still another one or two billion which will come forward in Supplementary and Amending Budget No 3. We have a choice of whether to give the money back to the Member States or whether we try to put it to use in other areas. One thing that has been made clear to us is that in next year's budget there could be shortfalls, especially in the Structural Funds, where the Category 2 expenditure on payments may well have to be exceeded. Therefore, one of the reasons for our amendments is to alleviate that problem next year by making the monies available this year. Consequently, the Member States will not receive ten billion back, but something in the region of EUR 5.5 billion. The Council and certain Member States have queried the legality of the amendment and our right to do this. The simple answer is yes, we do have this right. We have done similar things since 1994, which have never been challenged by the Council, because it recognises that, at the end of the day, it is the Treaty that counts, and the Treaty gives Parliament the final say on the budget when the President signs the budget. Consequently, what we consider a routine operation in amending this SAB has given one or two of our friends in the Council some ideas about challenging it from a legal point of view. I think they would be unwise to do that. The second problem seems to be that we will delay the new system of own resources by not voting the SAB through in its entirety tomorrow. Well, yes, we will, but that is not our fault. The Commission, out of the goodness of its heart, was trying to do the Council a favour by putting these changes into this SAB. We want to see them too, but quite frankly, the sooner we get the SAB voted at our second reading, on the assumption that the Council does not agree with our first reading, then the changes will come about. A third criticism from the Council is that there is no chance whatsoever of spending the money this year. If that is the case, we could do something about it later on. As I said SAB 3 is coming. We have asked the Commission for information on how the money can be spent, whether it can be spent in time or whether all of it can be spent. If the Commission comments support the Council's position, then of course we will have to re-consider. If we do not do it under SAB 2, then we could certainly do it under SAB 3. For those trying to read between the lines, I hope that message is pretty clear, because this is not just about this particular SAB. There are other consequences. If I use the words 'Financial Regulation' then the penny may drop with some people and they may begin to understand what I am talking about when I keep mentioning SAB 3. Another aspect here is that some Member States, including my own, will say that there will be a hole in their own budgets. They are right. The easiest way to fill that hole is to get this business sorted out as quickly as possible. This is linked, however, not only to SAB 2 or SAB 3, but also to the Financial Regulation. I would hope that with the good cooperation of all three institutions this issue can be put to rest in the not too distant future, to make the Council happy, to make ourselves happy and to make sure that the Commission can get on with doing the job that it wants to do. c. – Mr President, let me get the customary thanks to the rapporteurs out of the way first in case I run out of time at the end. It is always the right thing to do but on this occasion it is genuine thanks to Mr Bourlanges, to Mr Virrankoski and an additional one on this occasion to Mr Colom for the work they have done in a very difficult procedure. I would also like to thank those people within Parliament who helped make this budget a success. Mr Bourlanges mentioned at our first reading the staff of the Committee on Budgets, the long hours they work, not only at nights but at weekends also, to make sure that we can function. Also thanks to all the political group staff. That includes Mr Westenbroek who sometimes gets right on my nerves but thank you to all those who have helped us get this far. Let us not lose sight of what is in this budget. We are talking about one issue which is how to fund Kosovo but there is a lot in this budget that we should be proud of, as Mr Walter and others have already reminded us. The last time we were in a budget debate, I think, I saw the Council benches absolutely empty. This must be a very serious debate when I see the number of people who are here from the Council. If we put their numbers together, and the Commission numbers together, they probably outnumber the Members in this Chamber, which signifies that they are looking forward to something being said. Whether that be from our side or from your side, Madam President-in-Office, I am not too sure, but they are here to keep their eye on somebody. I intend to ask questions, Mr President, and I hope we can find a solution to them tomorrow. Yesterday when we voted in our committee we took a position which I, and I think the vast majority of our committee, are quite happy with. Let me say this: we have no problem. You do. And now you are looking to us to get you out of a problem. I do not blame the Finnish President at all. You have been quite honourable in your dealings with us. It is the ones behind you who have been giving you a lot of problems. We know that. Quite frankly, we have got into this mess and now we are being asked to bail you out. Let me try and get some clarification on what you said in your speech, Madam President-in-Office. I have called a special Budgets Committee meeting for tomorrow at 9.15 a.m. or thereabouts when the votes are finished and we will vote on the Colom report and we will vote, if need be, on changes to Mr Bourlanges' report. But we need some clarification on some issues. I turn to the Commission because within the text there are three declarations and the first is a declaration from the Commission. The original text had the figure EUR 5.5 billion which has been mentioned by Mrs Buitenweg. The Council has actually taken that figure out. I am asking the Commission to clarify that it is a figure of about EUR 5.5 billion we are talking about when we talk about the aid that is needed for Kosovo and the Balkans in the light of what President Prodi and Commissioner Patten said. So, some clarification is needed from the Commission. In category four, and before I request clarification there, when the President-in-Office mentioned help for places like Kosovo and East Timor, let me remind the Council that it did not put any money on the line for East Timor – we did. Even at the second reading it did not put money on the line – we did. If you had not agreed the EUR 125 million for Morocco – even before we had an agreement – we probably would not be in the position we are in now. But that is another matter. I need clarification on three things for our committee meeting tomorrow. We have had a chat about this, but I want to hear you say it here tonight. When I was noting down what you were saying, in English you said that the ceiling for heading 4 should not be amended permanently. You clarified that by saying: the words 'at this moment' should also be added. Let me try and simplify it. Can you confirm that in that phrase you are talking only about the year 2000? When you talk of no revision for category 4 being necessary are you talking only about the year 2000? That is the first thing we need to have clarified. The second thing we need clarified is this: on the EUR 2 billion in payments of compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure, can you confirm that this is the position of the Council – meaning the Member States and not just you? Can we assume that will not be challenged before we take our vote tomorrow morning? Thirdly, can you produce in writing your position for our meeting tomorrow so that Mr Colom i Naval can make proposals? If we get those things clarified I think we can get the solution the Council is looking for. Let me say one last thing. We all have to learn lessons from this and the one that the Council must learn more than anything else is, not to take Parliament for granted. – I was not expecting to speak but, as you have asked me, I will do so. First of all, I am mightily relieved that we have got the vote through. It has been a tortuous process this particular year for everyone concerned, especially the rapporteurs, Mr Bourlanges, Mr Virrankoski and Mr Colom i Naval – because of the agreements with the Council. It has been, at times, as Mr Bourlanges said earlier, rather nerve-wracking. Now that we have got it through I want to thank the Council for the decision that they have taken and thank the Commission for their help. As a matter of information for Members, with the vote which has gone through now, the total payments will be 1.11% of Europe's GNP which is under the ceiling for the year 2000 of the financial perspective of 1.13% and under the ceiling for own resources of 1.27%. . – Mr President, there is no point in talking about old money or new money when there is no money!  If we do not get agreement on this matter this year with urgent procedure, there will be no money next year for the Global Health Fund. I know there are problems about getting EUR 60 million from the EDF but, quite frankly, that is another argument. If we want EUR 60 million from the general budget, we have to agree to using urgent procedure on this or there will be no money for the Global Health Fund. – Mr President, this shows the folly of making policy on the hoof. This has never gone through any committee. There have been requests for money, which does not exist and no one has said where it is going to come from. It is an urgency which has been voted by this Parliament – so be it, but it is quite ludicrous. Mr President, Mrs Haug attended the Detlev Samland school of speaking to the clock and just carried straight on, as Detlev always used to. Though we are talking about a PDB for the year 2001, it is somewhat difficult not to link it to the revision of the Financial Perspective. I know we should not do so, but there is that link between the two which makes me want to comment on both. For the Commission proposals to be successful three factors will be crucial. The first is the assessment of needs for the western Balkans. In a couple of weeks’ time, Parliament will send an ad hoc delegation to Kosovo to try and make an assessment. We will need to opt for the Commission proposal of EUR 5.5 billion in total or move towards the Council which is proposing a somewhat lower figure. The second factor will be Parliament's attitude to redeployment, especially in Category IV, not just for 2001 but for the whole of the Financial Perspective. That is why I say they have to be linked. I will give you an example. One area of great interest for me – I make no secret of it – is South Africa. The proposal to take EUR 2 million per year away from South Africa for six years may not seem much. But EUR 12 million is a lot of money for the projects in South Africa. I would not be happy with that and I am sure other people in other areas of interest in Category IV would adopt a similar attitude. Then we have Parliament's attitude towards redeployment in Category I. Similarly, we have to consider our approach to the use of the flexibility instrument if it was invoked for Serbia, as you suggest. We have to bear in mind what the Interinstitutional Agreement says about a rule not being used for the same things in consecutive years. Once again that would be a challenge for Parliament. The third factor, and probably the most important one, is the attitude of the Council. If they reject what you are proposing, especially as far as the revision goes, the question remains: what will you do next? I know we have a trialogue and a conciliation before their first reading but it is a problem we have to resolve before the Council's first reading. What happens if the Council is adamant and rejects the Commission's proposals? Mrs Schreyer, you are something of a juggler and an illusionist at the same time, with the proposals that have been made. You have to keep several balls in the air and, at the same time, because of what is proposed after 2003, you have to make more appear. One of the great mysteries in your proposals on the revision is where the money will come from after 2003. But that is not for next year. That is for the future. In the meantime we await developments on those three factors. Hopefully, at the end of this process, we will get a satisfactory outcome. – Mr President, concerning item 11 of the Minutes on the order of business, we agreed yesterday to have the Bourlanges report on today's agenda. However, it was withdrawn from the Committee on Budgets last night without being discussed or voted on. It therefore needs to be withdrawn from today's agenda. As chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I am duty bound to vote for the amendments from the committee. In the committee I voted against those amendments which jeopardised the UK abatement. Had I been voting as a Labour backbencher in the plenary I would have voted in a similar way as I did in committee. It is my responsibility as chairman to uphold the position of the committee and therefore I voted for the Haug report. – Mr President, I am advised that the figures that we have just voted on do not make sense unless we vote on the Wynn report which is about the financial perspective. We need to vote on that to make sure that we have the figures before we accept that the vote we have just had is complete. – Mr President, I want to concentrate mainly on the revision and just say to those who have been making comments condemning the Commission on the proposal for taking money from 1A: ‘Let us wait and see what the PDB brings forward’ and not write off everything at this time. Ralf Walter made the very pertinent point that agriculture expenditure will actually increase and if money is taken from 1A it will be from surpluses, but let us wait until the PDB comes along. We are working on assumptions when we present this report from Mrs Haug. I am just referring to the Haug report not to Mr Ferber’s. I congratulate the pair of them but in this Haug report we make certain assumptions about the revision, about redeployment in Category 4 and about the needs of Kosovo. However, I need to remind the Council – and at least we have one willing scribe down there if no one else is doing the night shift for the Council to get the message across – that really, if the Commission makes the proposal which we expect them to make, then they are duty bound, because of the interinstitutional agreement, to discuss with Parliament what that revision should be before their first reading. My gut feeling is that there will be no agreement with the Council on getting a revision of the financial perspective. Well, if that is the case, the message needs to go out now loud and clear that we will have the same bumpy ride with the budget this year that we had last year and you will not win. We will be determined to do our best for the Balkans and Kosovo but, at the same time, we will be realistic for those other policies which Parliament considers to be important. The trouble with the Council is that everything revolves around what was agreed at Berlin. We keep being told that Berlin is set in concrete. Well, in the words of Hugh McMahon who was one of my colleagues up to the last Parliament, in a debate on shipbuilding, he once said, ‘We don’t want it set in concrete, we want it set in runny cement’, and I presume that what we want in this day and age is to have the Berlin Agreement in a type of runny cement so at least you can be flexible enough to agree with us that things have to change. I make the point, Mr President, as I did yesterday in the Budgets Committee, in the twelve years of the financial perspective there have been 38 revisions totalling over EUR 7 000 billion of monies that have been involved in those revisions. Kosovo is one of those occasions where the financial perspective is not flexible enough and it needs to be changed and that message has to be got through otherwise there will be problems. – Mr President, I do not want to repeat things, so I will stick to just a handful of points – although James Elles has stolen some of the thunder from my speech with his last two points. I congratulate the rapporteurs. Their work is never easy. This year they have done a particularly good job under difficult circumstances. I welcome the President-in-Office's statement that at the next conciliation he hopes we can get an agreement with the Council. I hope so too because on 20 July, at the last conciliation, we agreed virtually nothing. There is no point in having conciliation meetings if that is the level we are going to reach. Hopefully, in November we may get something more positive. As for the situation regarding the margins, which the President-in-Office also mentioned, there will not be much of a margin left by the time we vote on Thursday. One of the reasons for that is because, once again, we could not get into any discussions with the Council; we could not get any agreements with the Council. I made the point on several occasions in July that the three institutions must seriously discuss the problems of trying to finance categories 3, 4 and 5 for the future. The Council cannot ignore these categories as though there were no problems. At times it seems it is like an ostrich with its head stuck in the sand trying to ignore all the problems around it. When the Council takes that attitude, we are left talking to the backside, although sometimes we get more sense out of the backside of an ostrich than out of some of the people that we do have to speak to! That is not a reference to you President-in-Office! There are times when it is so frustrating trying to get the message through that we waste our time having conciliation meetings. Hopefully, in November we will get something a lot more concrete. On the issue of reform, James Elles has just touched on a very significant point. I was going to refer to the concern that we have about the progress that is not being made, but Parliament has not helped itself with that decision last night by the Bureau. One has to hope that can be changed rapidly. Realistically, it is now left with the Council: almost three years have passed since the resignation of the Commission, and we still have not seen the reform that everyone is looking for. The general public, the taxpayers of Europe, are looking for the reform which we promised almost three years ago. Where are we? It is stuck in the Council. President-in-Office, you are aware, because I have discussed this issue with you, that the message must get through that we need a solution to this as quickly as possible. Otherwise the whole process will be bogged down in the mire. Hopefully, Parliament can play its part and unravel last night's decision and continue on the track of getting a speedy process going so we can get the whole issue sorted out, not just for the Commission but for all the institutions. I want to turn to the Global Health Fund which we have a budget line and a relatively small amount of money for next year. As we are all aware, the Commission will be bringing forward proposals to finance that from this year's budget, taking EUR 60 million from the general budget and EUR 60 million from the EDF. I need to ask the Commission a question: on the monies from the EDF, once that budget is agreed, it is agreed with the ACP states, so can we be assured that the ACP states have agreed to the use of EUR 60 million for the Global Health Fund? Several of my colleagues have asked me that question, and quite frankly, I do not know the answer to it. So if Commissioner Schreyer could reply to that, I would be grateful. Let me turn to the contentious issue of the A-30 lines. It seems that whenever we vote on the A-30 lines, we please very few people and displease a lot of people. I would hope that the situation that we found ourselves in this time will give us the courage for next year to make proposals which envisage a more transparent system. We are concerned that if we hand the whole process over to the Commission, it will be no better. The Commission will take the decisions instead of Parliament. I hope we can get some sort of an agreement within Parliament on how we handle A-30 in the future. Finally, I want to make a plea to the Council and to repeat what I said in conciliation and at the recent trialogue. What we need is a working group of the Council and Parliament at a political level to start looking at value for money within the European Union, to look at the institutions, to look at the activities and to make sure that we can persuade the taxpayers that they really are getting value for money. I hope you will take that on board. .  I should like to congratulate and thank all those involved. However, we need a statement from the President-in-Office of the Council to confirm that the budget is correct and that the Council has no objections to it. – Mr President, just before you vote on this, I must bring it to Parliament's attention. Within the report, under Recital H, and under Recommendation 2, which are quite similar, it reads "Calls on the Council to amend the arrangements for the funding of Europol by replacing Member States' contributions with funding from the EU budget". The reality is the EU budget cannot absorb these funds. I would ask if Mr Deprez would take on an oral amendment which would actually read "replacing part of the Member States' contributions". . – Mr President, I just want to thank everybody, because, as I said at the beginning, this was a unique event. We have never done anything like this before. In the main it has been successful. Granted, some Members just made standard speeches, but there has been some good debate and we have had some good responses. We have also had some confusing responses, especially on the Global Health Fund. I should like to thank all those who have taken part, especially the individual Commissioners, and Mrs Schreyer for being here all the time. I should also like to thank the President-in-Office. During this presidency, the Danes have achieved several firsts in the budget procedure and to sit here for four and a half hours is a massive first. It has never been done before.  I must also note that Mr Elles' speech in which he set out six priorities of the PPE-DE Group was very good. Three of them seemed to have more to do with getting British Conservatives onto the list, which is going ahead at present, than with budgetary rigour or budgetary sense. I am sure Mr Elles will take that in the manner in which it is meant. All in all it has been a good debate and I should like to thank all those who have taken part. – Madam President, this concerns the Fiori report which we voted on in Brussels last time. I have to say that this was Parliament at its worst. We had a temporary committee which met for ten months to discuss an issue that could have been discussed within the existing committees. Firstly, it was an abuse of the temporary committee status – Parliament is very fortunate to have this privilege, and I do not think that we should abuse it, especially in the way it was abused with that vote and the final outcome. As chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I would dearly love to know the cost of that temporary committee for an outcome that had nothing at the end of it. I would hope that, if we have temporary committees in future, they will deal with subjects outside the normal committee structure. If we have enquiries in the future, let us try to carry them out within the budget and not give rise to excess expenditure. – Madam President, it would be an oral amendment, which would be a new Recital 12. It would also apply to the draft legislative resolution and would read: "The proposal was not foreseen in the financial perspective. The financial envelope of the proposal should be covered by additional resources." – Mr President, I would like to thank the two rapporteurs, Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Costa Neves, for the remarkable job they have done in getting these guidelines together in such a short space of time. They are relative newcomers to our committee and they have shown their grasp of what our committee is about. With this type of guideline we will not go far wrong as we go through this year. I wish to comment on several items. First, Mr Costa Neves' report and the Commission's budget. The big problem that we have had in the last two years has been with Category 4, especially the Balkans, trying to get the correct amount of money, having arguments with the Council, using the flexibility instrument and all in all not having a satisfactory procedure. Hopefully those problems will be solved and we should not be in that situation for next year. Having said that, we still await the World Bank report on the needs of Serbia. But when the ad hoc delegation went to Serbia earlier this year, and we were discussing this with the World Bank, they made the point that they would be looking at the supply side to see what the needs of Serbia were. To my understanding this meant that we will see what the donors can give before we decide what the needs are. Even with that type of statement, we will not be in the same situation on trying to find the funds for Category 4 for next year. We will see problems arising in the future with Category 5. The present SAB 2 for 2001, as Markus Ferber mentioned earlier, is causing some people concern, not just about the needs of the Council in that SAB but also about what it is going to do to the margin of Category 5. When we had the trialogue last Thursday, the Swedish Presidency took on board, and were very amenable to, what we were saying. We stressed that there is a need for the three institutions to get together as soon as possible to start talking about the margins – especially in Category 5, but we have to start looking at Categories 3 and 4 as well. On Category 1, the BSE crisis and now foot-and-mouth are raging, if that is the right word. Foot-and-mouth is certainly raging in the Member State I come from and in the region that I represent. The Council and Commission have made it quite clear that there will be no new money next year in Category 1. Whatever the consequences of these two diseases, the money will have to be found from within Category 1. Members need to be made aware of that before they start expecting new monies to be made available by the Council. The fourth point on the Costa Neves report is the Commission reforms referred to in paragraphs 7, 8 and 9. These are essential. I would ask the Council to give some indication as to what they will be proposing for a legal base for the early retirement scheme. Until we know that we cannot really make our mind up as to what we should be supporting for next year. On the Buitenweg report, can I comment on the fact that enlargement is a problem. The Interinstitutional Agreement states that any needs for enlargement will be met through a revision of the financial perspective. What then do we do when we want to plan for language training, new recruitment or adaptation of buildings? This is what Mr Elles was touching on and I am trying to be more subtle by saying that what we need to be doing is looking now at what the needs of enlargement are, and once again talking with the other institutions to look at a revision for enlargement. We need to resolve this between the three institutions. It is something that will not go away and as each week passes it approaches quicker and quicker. The Colom i Naval report seems to have caused a lot of problems recently but hopefully we will have a solution in the very near future and those in the Member States who have been ringing around and those in the Commission who have been – dare I say – panicking can put their minds at rest. Finally there is the Haug report which no one else has mentioned but I need to mention it. If I were not the chairman of the Budgets Committee but just a simple member, I would say that I have doubts with Mrs Haug's report and I would not vote for amendment 3. But, of course, I am the chairman and I cannot say those things, so I won't. – Mr President, I give my thanks to the rapporteurs. The four of them deserve congratulations for the work they have put in. I welcome Mr Patriat, who is in the Chamber for the first time for this debate. I thank him for his clarity What he said was absolutely clear. The message he can pass on to Mrs Parly is: do not book a plane for Thursday night. It is going to be a long Thursday night and the flight will be some time on Friday. For the 2001 budget – that is for conciliation – there is a touch of  in that it is so similar to the 2000 budget because category 4 is overriding everything. Nobody seems to be talking about anything except category 4. If we could turn the clock back to when we agreed the Interinstitutional Agreement, if we had given EUR 200 million extra to category 4, we would have solved a lot of problems over the last two years. The fact that category 4’s ceiling has now been exceeded by EUR 380 million tells us that we really should have done something like that. We are trying to safeguard Parliament’s priorities in category 4. When people talk about making reductions or finding the money within category 4 to fund certain priorities, do not forget that Parliament has its priorities, We made that clear in the vote in committee. But there are three areas which are giving us cause for concern. Kosovo, of course – which we had the problem with last year. The transfer that we made last night should resolve the funding for Kosovo, and we should have less of a problem next year because of what we voted for last night. In fact, we have problem in that we have given too much. We now have EUR 25 million over the EUR 814 million, so what we could discuss at the trialogue and conciliation is how to take EUR 25 million away from Kosovo, to give it to – let us say – MEDA. With the transfer of EUR 175 million we have estimated EUR 25 million more than we expected. We are saying we should use the flexibility instrument for MEDA. We will try to get an agreement with the Council and the Commission on that. But although we talk about the flexibility instrument, let us not forget it does not exist unless the Council and Parliament agree to it coming into existence. Unless it comes into existence we have not just one major problem but several problems. As for Serbia, we all remain uncertain as to what the needs are there. Therefore we have put the PM on the line. I turn now to what Mr Wurtz said before. It had a lot of validity. But to reject the budget at this stage, at first reading, is totally wrong. The content of the argument is worth considering for support, but to try to reject the budget at first reading is nonsense. We have a long way to go before we get to the second reading but at least he has given us something to think about. On the western Balkans, President-in-Office, you said that the Council considers EUR 614 million to be enough. We do not and the Commission does not. We reckon we have more scientific evidence than your guess at a figure. So that figure will need to be clarified. We base it on what the Commission and the World Bank reported last time. My real worry is that, when the Commission and the World Bank come back with their report at the end of November or beginning of December, it will just be written off by the Council. You said that if we needed a revision of the Interinstitutional Agreement, then we have to base it on needs and availability, and of course we have to consider the flexibility instrument first. But what if the needs are extremely high? What if the availability is extremely low? What if the flexibility instrument is not enough? Then the reality is that we will have to look at an IIA. My real concern is that the Council will simply say that they do not agree with this analysis, that we should forget it and that they are sticking to the existing ceilings. If that happens we have major problems and Mr Wurtz may be our best friend at the end of the day. Let us bear that in mind. As regards MEDA, the Council said that the commitments are not a problem owing to the eight years of payment backlogs. If we took that argument to its final conclusion, we would not need any commitments. We could solve all our problems by taking every commitment away from MEDA and just working on the outstanding payments. We believe that the Commission has proposed realistic figures for MEDA. We have spoken to Commissioner Patten at length, as well as to Commissioner Schreyer, and if the extra staffing is made available, as proposed in the White Paper, at least there should be the beginnings of some substantial movement on MEDA. There is a distinct difference between Parliament and the Council. We know that we have representation without taxation. We do not have to find the money – the Member States have to do that. We have representation without taxation. But the Council’s problem is prime ministers and foreign ministers who say one thing and finance ministers who say another. That is something like proclamations without appropriations. There is a real lack of coordination that leads to deprivation and frustration.  President-in-Office, there are several issues which we need agreement on: real issues. I would like to touch on the White Paper, because you and the Commission have failed to mention what was actually said in the trialogue. That concerns the early retirement scheme where, I believe, the Commission gave its approval in principle, but you were awaiting a proposal on the financial regulation. That will be one of the issues we have to resolve – it is not just the question of the 400 posts, it is the package that goes with it. President-in-Office, I am looking forward to the trialogue and to the conciliation with great anticipation. My flight is booked for Friday, so I am ready for a long night on Thursday, but I hope that at the end of all this we can get a budget we are all satisfied with, so we can do justice to the tax-payers of the European Union, to the people we represent, but also to those in need, especially in the MEDA areas, especially in Serbia and especially in the western Balkans. – Mr President, all the points I have to make are addressed to the Council and even though there is no-one on the front bench I am sure the hardworking scribes will relay that information back to the Presidency and to all the Council delegations. If you look at the Haug report, Parliament wants to find a solution. We are actually looking for agreement with the Council on the way to get a good budget by the end of this year. Let us get that point clear. We are not looking for confrontation, we are actually looking for a way of cooperating together. But do not be fooled into thinking that we are not prepared to take hard decisions if necessary. It is pretty hard to get an agreement when the Council just ignores Article 20 of the Interinstitutional Agreement. Ever since the PDB was published by the Commission they have been duty bound to discuss with us the revision of the Financial Perspective which was proposed by the Commission. They have failed to do that. On two occasions we have asked them for trialogues and we have been refused. That makes it pretty difficult. And that will be at the forefront of our discussions at the trialogue this week and in the conciliation on 20 July. Whatever the Council votes on 20 July we will still be making that point in the autumn when it comes to our first reading. From the very first trialogue of this year with the Portuguese Presidency, the one thing that was obvious to everyone is that we need an agreement between the three institutions on the funding for the western Balkans. I am pretty sure Parliament has a position now. The Council's position is about 200 million less than ours, which means that we will not get an agreement on that and unless we have an agreement there is going to be a problem in how we fund the needs in category 4. It seems now that there might be some possibility of redeploying funds from the MEDA programme to help solve our problem. For an institution that tells us that what was agreed in Berlin was set in concrete, I think the Council has a bit of a cheek in moving large sums of money from the MEDA programme which they agreed 12 months ago and then lecturing us about what can and cannot be moved. Having said that, we are of course, prepared to listen to the Council, to hear what their suggestions are and I look forward to our trialogue this week and the conciliation meeting on 20 July. – Mr President, I add my congratulations to the rapporteurs on the work that has been done but have one criticism to make on the guidelines in general, which is not necessarily the fault of the rapporteurs, but of the committee and the other committees. Guidelines should be just that and they should be concise. They should not form a volume on the scale of , which is what they invariably turn out to be. There are 41 paragraphs in Mr Färm's report, 34 paragraphs in Mr Stenmarck's report and another 38 amendments to vote on later on. That is my gripe. I would like to make a couple of points on each report. The first is on the Färm report. The problems highlighted concern categories 4 and 5 and I would like to bring to Members' and Parliament's attention the fact that these issues were raised with the Spanish presidency at the trialogue meeting to try and find some sort of solution. On category 4 the Commission has made proposals for a new flexibility instrument for humanitarian aid. I said then, and I say again now, that as far as the Council is concerned hell will freeze over before it agrees to a new flexibility instrument. What we did propose – and what may be negotiated with the Council – was to use existing humanitarian aid reserves and to find wording, without changing the legislation, to make sure we can use them for the problems we find ourselves with in category 4. Regarding category 5: how do we fit everything into the existing ceilings? With great difficulty, unless we make some radical changes. The one thing we have asked the Council to do is to try and find an agreement on these two items during the July conciliation procedure. Rather than drag them out until the conciliation procedure in November or our second reading in December, it would be beneficial to everyone if we could resolve those two issues, in principle, in July. I now turn to Mr Stenmarck's report. One part relates to category 5, where the Committee on Budgets has created a working group to look at administration expenditure in all the institutions. The reason for doing this was to get some political commitment from the Council to do exactly the same thing or to do it with us. That has not yet been forthcoming, but we live in hope. For those Members who have seen the comments in our working documents, do not be too fearful of them. We are trying to look at things that people would not normally touch, but to at least stimulate some debate. Finally, the Stenmarck report touches on what Mr Elles has just mentioned, that is the reference in paragraph 15 to a politically balanced Administration in Parliament. Sometimes we vote on things which on reflection we regret. To have a comment asking for our Administration to be politically balanced would not give the right signals to the outside world. The term 'politically neutral' would be far more acceptable. I am one of those people who think that civil servants should be politically neutral. They should not wear political colours. I also believe that people in the civil service should win promotion because of their ability, not because of their political allegiance. A split vote has been asked for on that matter and I would ask all groups to consider carefully how they will vote. Mr President, in the light of some of the matters that have been discussed in this debate, I have to keep reminding myself that this is the first reading. One of the problems is that the debate is concentrating on what we have voted in committee already and what we may well vote in plenary on Thursday. The final outcome may be the same; then again it could be different in certain areas, such as category 1(b), where in committee we voted for a figure above the EUR 83 million margin for the less favoured areas. My friend and colleague, Mr Walter, has made the point that there may be a change in the vote of his particular Group, in which case there would not be a qualified majority and therefore the problem would be solved. However, if it did secure a qualified majority, let us not forget that this is the first reading and the question could be resolved in due course. Much has been said about the one issue that is dominating category 4: namely, what is to be done about the funding of Iraq. Whether we adopt or reject the amendment for EUR 500 million, let us not forget that – as I keep saying – it is still the first reading. On the issue of Iraq, it is also worth mentioning that the Council for the first time has invited Mr Brok and myself to go to Madrid for the donors' conference, an extremely generous and welcome offer. Unfortunately, neither of us can go, but we will be replaced by Baroness Nicholson from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Mrs Jensen from the Committee on Budgets, so we will at least be represented. As Chairman, it is my job to respect the committee's position, not to oppose it. I realise that I am the servant of the committee and I try to reflect what we have voted. Then again, after the vote in the plenary, it is my job also to reflect that position. When it comes to the EUR 500 million, there is confusion in my mind. I know what we voted, but I also know what has been said. For instance, when Commissioner Patten addressed the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgets – Mrs Schreyer sent her apologies, she was at another meeting at the same time – he made it clear that EUR 200 million was, in the Commission's opinion, the maximum that could be utilised, based on the assessment of needs. At the Brussels summit last week, which I followed with great interest, not one Member State asked for any amount above the EUR 200 million. When Commissioner Patten made his proposals, he made the point that this was the figure he would be taking to Madrid for the donors' conference. I also heard this morning – whether it is true I do not know – that the US congress had rejected President Bush's amount for aid for Iraq. They have cut it in half, saying that half the amount could be provided as grants, but the other half would have to be in the form of loans. This information needs to be checked, but it is what I was told this morning. If we do not vote the EUR 500 million, and EUR 200 million is the final figure that the Commission settles upon, Commissioner Patten has also said that should that funding be spent rapidly and efficiently, then the Commission would come back with a supplementary and amending budget. I would ask Mrs Schreyer if she can confirm that. It is essential to know – before the vote on Thursday – whether, if the EUR 200 million is agreed by Parliament and then spent quickly, the Commission will come back and provide more money next year, based on needs. Let us not forget that if the EUR 500 million is rejected then our position is EUR 30 million. Then, of course, we would have to look at the proposal for the EUR 200 million and I would hope that, if the EUR 500 million is rejected, we do not decide that EUR 30 million is the amount to which we are totally committed. I would hope that all the political groups opt for the maximum of EUR 200 million, albeit spread over two years. Let us not forget that a codecision agreement is still needed and that the Council will also have to agree to that figure. Then comes the hard bargaining during conciliation as to where the money will come from. If we are naive enough to believe that it will all come from flexibility, then we will have some long nights in conciliation when the matter has to be negotiated. . – Mr President, a letter was sent from Commissioner Patten to the President of Parliament yesterday asking Parliament to adopt, as quickly as possible, Supplementary and Amending Budget No 4 in order to allow the budgetisation of the EUR 70 million for Afghanistan. The additional funding is consistent with the pledge made by the Commission in Tokyo last January. At the trialogue which was held yesterday evening between 9 p.m. and 10.30 p.m., an agreement was reached between the representatives of Parliament and the Council that Supplementary and Amending Budget No 4 should be adopted as quickly as possible, as already approved by the Council. On the basis of the letter from Commissioner Patten, could I ask you to consider the vote on the SAB 4 as an urgency, so that we can adopt it during this part-session? If that is agreed to, then we will be calling a meeting of the Committee on Budgets at 10.30 a.m. this morning. I should therefore like to inform those of my colleagues who do not already know, that there will be a meeting of the Committee on Budgets at 10.30 a.m. today in place of the coordinators' meeting that was planned. – Mr President, when I came in I was immediately confronted by three surprises. Firstly I saw you sitting there, instead of out here for our budget debate. The one great advantage of that is that because you are there and not here the Socialists now get more speaking time since you would have had speaking time in this debate. The second surprise is to see Commissioner Liikanen, after I praised him yesterday. I was about to welcome Mrs. Schreyer to her first debate and all of a sudden I see him there. The third surprise is the fact that there is no one here from the Council, because this debate is on SABs. I say that with a lot of sadness because the Council deserves to be criticised over SAB1 and SAB3. I have said this at a trialogue meeting, we have said it in our committee and I now wish it to go on public record. The way the Council behaved over SAB 1 and 3 was nothing short of disgraceful. It was a slap in the face to this Parliament. For those who do not understand what I am talking about, I am referring to the timing of their submissions for both the supplementary and amending budgets, which meant that we would not have the chance to debate them in full. We will vote on them this week but it will be to all intents and purposes a formality. I hope it does not happen again. If I thought they were going to do the same thing next year, i.e. submit an SAB at the end of July, I would not hesitate to call a special meeting of the Budgets Committee within the 45-day timetable to make sure that we blocked it so that we could discuss it in full. It did nothing for the trust that we are trying to build up between the two institutions. It just led to antagonism and suspicion. Having said all that, when it comes to SAB4 the speed with which the institutions have worked has been quite commendable. The Council took on board what we were asking and got it through within a week and tomorrow we will be voting on SAB4. This is indeed encouraging. We welcome the cooperation that has gone on in SAB4. We welcome the use of category 1 funds for external expenditure and we welcome that speed. However, two things need to be said about SAB4. One is that the 15 extra posts for OLAF are there, which we accept, but we need to stress that there has to be an SAB5. SAB5 should be imminent because of the Commission’s needs for payments but within the resolution that we will vote on we will insist on an SAB5 and an extra 15 posts for OLAF. This is a political decision which the committee and the Budget Control Committee have to make and the message that therefore needs to be taken to Mrs Schreyer, if not from you, Commissioner, then at least from the Commission services, is that we would want an early meeting with Mrs Schreyer to talk about the contents of an SAB5 to be placed before Parliament as soon as possible and, more importantly, to include the extra staff for OLAF. .  Mr President, I wish to make three comments. The first concerns the amounts necessary to meet the aspirations of everyone who wants to see a successful Europe in the future – whether that ceiling should be 1% of GNI, or 1.24%, or somewhere in between – and to remind everyone that today is the start of what will probably be a 12-month process. Even though Mr Prodi has made a statement, if we go by past practices I do not expect a conclusion on this for at least a year. In December Mr Colom i Naval, who is the rapporteur on the financial perspectives, presented a working document in the Committee on Budgets on the appraisal of the financial perspectives from their inception in 1988 to 2002. Over those 15 years, the average budget implementation is, remarkably, 1% of GDP. The Council could say that is sufficient, but to get an average of 1% over those years means we have to spend above 1% in certain years. In fact, we spent up to the figure mentioned by Mr Prodi – 1.15% – in 1993. My point is that this type of flexibility is needed if we are to continue to have a decent average. If that average has to be 1%, then there will be years when we will have to exceed 1% quite significantly. I am still not sure whether the Council's figure of 1% includes the EDF. I do not think it does, but that would therefore make it 1.03% at best. I want to make a comment to those Member States which criticised the Stability Pact for being too rigid. They should also see that if there is a case for flexibility in the Stability Pact, then we do not need rigidity in the European Union budget by sticking at 1%, as some Member States propose. That has been shown in Category 4, where, without the flexibility instrument, we could not have financed the actions in Kosovo, Serbia, Afghanistan, Iraq or in other areas. We need that flexibility in the budget. Speaking in a personal capacity, we could manage within the 1% if those same Member States had not already agreed that agricultural expenditure should be set in concrete up to 2013.  I quote from the Commission's document: 'A ceiling around 1% of GNI would fail to meet the European Councilcommitments on agricultural payments, would undermine the phasing-in of cohesion policy in the ten new Member States and would jeopardise existing levels of other policies.' It goes on to say: 'Alternatively, cuts would be needed across the board and existing agreements would have to be reopened, including the amounts decided at the Brussels European Council of October 2002.' I hope the Council takes cognisance of that fact. My second comment is specifically to the Council. To get an agreement on the new financial perspectives needs an interinstitutional agreement. I just want to remind the Council that we are one of those institutions, and it will need Parliament's agreement to get an interinstitutional agreement. We do not care if we do not get it: we will just go back to Article 272 of the Treaty and will still manage the budget without the Council's say-so. That is not a threat, it is just a comment to the Council, which it should bear in mind as we go through this procedure.  My last point is that for almost the past 15 years – all the time I have been in this Parliament and on the Committee on Budgets – the rapporteur for the financial perspectives has been Mr Colom i Naval. This will probably be his last plenary session – I am breaking news here. He will be offered the job of head of the Court of Auditors in the Catalan Government, and no doubt will be taking it up very shortly.  I want to pay tribute to his unceasing work; he knows more about this subject than anyone else – dare I say, boringly so! He can quote the interinstitutional agreement chapter and verse, but I have been glad of it on many occasions. I want to thank him for all his work over those 15 years, and also wish him well for his new post. I hope I express the whole of Parliament's wish in that sentiment. – Mr President, I should like to say first of all that I support the enlargement process, and I want to see the applicant countries as part of the EU; however, what I am about to say may seem to contradict that. The Commission proposal for the Enlargement Treaty was changed by the Council with the addition of Annex XV. This, as primary law within the Treaty, is a direct attack on Parliament's rights. For the past few weeks, I, as chairman of the Committee on Budgets, have led the trialogue delegation seeking to alleviate the damage caused by Annex XV. We have come to a conclusion which I consider to be a second-best solution. The draft declaration agreed by Parliament and the Council includes, in its Paragraph 1, a means of derogating from the Treaty, which I hope will safeguard Parliament's rights. The simple answer would have been to withdraw Annex XV, but that has not been done, and as long as it remains, then I personally have a real problem with this. It is bad enough to see the Council trying to take unilateral action on an adjustment of the financial perspective from 2004 to 2006, but to see the inclusion of a guaranteed ceiling on agricultural expenditure up to the year 2013 is totally unacceptable. I consider the Chirac/Schroeder deal on this to be a shabby affair, a clandestine deal in this age of transparency. That the other Member States agreed to this in Copenhagen was hard to believe, but for this now to be endorsed in the Treaty is just a step too far. I cannot therefore vote for enlargement because to do so is to accept Annex XV within the Treaty and that is impossible for me. I will therefore abstain, with a very heavy heart, on all the final votes. – Mr President, the Minutes are correct but I should like to make a comment. Yesterday I was present in Strasbourg, and from the moment I arrived I had meetings through till after 9 p.m. I did not, therefore, sign the register in the plenary chamber, so when we look at the Minutes my name is not there. Some organisations publish details of Members' attendances; however this is a classic example of how sometimes when they say that Members have not attended the plenary part-sessions it is simply that they have not signed in in the Chamber on that day. I should like this put on record. Members should bear this in mind when those records are published and it appears that the record of attendance does not correspond to the reality of the situation. , . – Mr President, President-in-Office and Commissioner Liikanen – nice to see you. Commissioner Schreyer did say that she would be unavailable and that you would be standing in. It is like old times. I bet you are really glad to be here. Thank you, President-in-Office, for your kind words, but to be honest with you, I was extremely disappointed with the outcome of your first reading and especially with the way the conciliation went. Maybe we were spoiled last year during the French Presidency, which at least made some concessions, but this year it was back to normal. For 12 years I have made the same speech – I did not do it last year – saying that this is a budget for the Council’s first reading made by Coreper and the politicians have no input into it. We try to get you to make political decisions, we put forward all our arguments and spend hours doing it (we have a very nice lunch in the meantime) and we get absolutely nowhere. It is a dialogue with the deaf. We talk and talk and we change absolutely nothing when it comes to the Council’s position. The difference between our two institutions is that we act as a Parliament should act. A Parliament should have a budget that reflects its political priorities. We do not spend money for the sake of spending money. We look at political priorities and then decide what should be allocated to them. What the Council wants to do is just keep expenditure to a bare minimum, no matter what the consequences or what it costs. We try to discuss issues like school milk. We made our point. Nothing happened. We spoke about the problems with the Structural Funds. Nothing happened. On the internal policies, the medicines’ agency and orphan medicines were one of the issues mentioned. At the SAB last year we had an agreement with the Council to increase the funding for orphan medicines and what do you do this year? You take 1.9 million off it. It just does not make sense. When we talk about trying to take Cyprus and Malta out of category 4 and put them where they should belong, you are not interested. And then when we talk about the compensation for not having a Morocco fisheries agreement, here is where we get into really serious discussion, because again nothing happened. We were trying to make the point that if you want to create some monies in category 2, you need our agreement, unless you want to take it from existing Structural Funds. Let us be clear about the money that is in category 4 for the Morocco fisheries agreement. It is in reserve. The only things we did agree at that conciliation were two bland statements, one on agriculture, one on category 5, but Parliament made a unilateral statement concerning the fisheries. I am going to remind you about one part, because when you spoke about looking at the letter of amendment and deciding what to do, in accordance with Annex IV of the IIA only the amounts entered in the budget for agreements, which have already been concluded by the Community, can be considered compulsory expenditure. Consequently, amounts entered in reserve – and that whacking big sum of EUR 125 million is in reserve – for agreements which have not been concluded, are considered to be non-compulsory. The Council might want to argue about that, but we do not see any argument. We will have the final say on what happens and rest assured it will not be a trade-off as to whether we keep that in or take it out to create the same amount of money in category 2. That is something that we need to be talking about. We need to be serious about this budget, to look at expenditure, especially in category 5. What are we going to do about administrative expenditure, especially in relation to enlargement? The statement about getting the secretaries-general to look at how the institutions can work together is all very well but there is a much greater issue. We actually suggested that the budgetary authority should have a value for money exercise looking at every European Union institution. You did not even respond to that. I just hope between now and our first reading, and indeed between now and your second reading, we can have some serious discussions and serious conciliation and at the end of it some serious agreements to get a budget that we can all be satisfied with. The one thing we will not stand accused of – I am not saying that you said this but many of your colleagues in the Council seem to think this – is that we just want to increase expenditure to the maximum so that we can finance the projects that we see as our favourites, while you want to be extremely prudent. We are extremely prudent. We are sensible in the way we handle things, but we want to do it as a team. We want to act as a budgetary authority, not going back to the old days where you voted on compulsory expenditure, we voted on non-compulsory and sometime in December we ended up with a budget. Let us hope that this year we can improve from what I consider to be not a good start to a far better understanding between our two institutions. If this Belgian Presidency is anything like the last Belgian Presidency when I did the 1994 budget, I will be extremely happy. . – Mr President, can I just make a point to our colleague at the back who came in on a point of order, which was not actually a point of order but a criticism. On this occasion the Commission is not presenting anything – it is the Council which is presenting its draft budget. And on an occasion like this the Commission is not necessarily the enemy - in fact it is quite a friend. The opposition is these people here! Let us not lose sight of the fact that a budget has been presented to us today. That is no condemnation of the President-in-Office, for whom I have great regard. Also Mr President, as you said, this process has gone on for several months. A lot of people have been involved and a lot of hard work has gone into it. I want to name two people who have been very much involved. One is Mr Samland, the previous Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, who left Parliament at the end of the last mandate. He worked tirelessly right up to the end to make sure that we could get the cooperation between the Council and Parliament that we need to get the budget we all want in the year 2000. The other person I want to thank is Mr Liikanen. As Commissioner - or Commissioner-designate - this is probably the last time you will sit here on a budgets issue. We have not clashed over the last few years but have had opportunities to try and solve a lot of problems. You deserve the praise of this Parliament for the work you have done in the budgetary areas and especially in some of the areas where you have tried to change things within the Commission. I should like to wish you well for the future. Mr President, that has got the nice bits out of the way. Let us now get down to the budget. Let us not get this debate mixed up with tomorrow’s debate on the supplementary and amending budgets 1, 3 and 4 for 1999 because, when the President-in-Office says that this spirit of cooperation is based on mutual trust (that is what I wrote down) between the institutions, I only have to remind the Council of what it did with supplementary and amending budgets 1 and 3 and our reaction to it. That had nothing to do with a spirit of cooperation and it certainly did not breed mutual trust. I am reminded of a story I once told Mr Liikanen. Mrs Dührkop, when she was the rapporteur, likened the harmonious relationships to a symphony being played on a grand piano. It reminded me of a famous comedy duo in the UK – Morecombe and Wise – where Eric Morecombe was playing a grand piano and making an awful noise and André Previn said to him “You’re playing all the wrong notes”, to which he replied “I’m playing all the right notes, not necessarily in the right order”. We have to get the right notes between the Council and the Parliament playing in the right order if we are to have this harmonious relationship. Madam President-in-Office, you reminded us of those areas where we did get agreement in the trialogues, about the letters of amendment in the autumn, about the commitment appropriations in the Structural Funds and about what our clear priorities should be. You also said that the budget should have the same discipline as national budgets. We have always considered that this Parliament’s Committee on Budgets and Parliament itself are extremely prudent. They do not go out of their way to make problems in the budget or to waste taxpayers’ money. Our problems are caused in the main in Member States, where 85% of EU money is actually administered and 85% of our problems occur. If we had more cooperation with the Member States we would not have as many problems. Also, there are many Member States’ national budgets which are running deficits. That is one thing we cannot do. On the different categories, on Category 1 I would agree with the President-in-Office when she said that agricultural expenditure should be based on up-to-date facts. That is why we agreed on an ad hoc procedure; that is why we agreed on the letter of amendment in the autumn. But for the life of me I cannot see why you have actually made cuts in Category 1. If we are waiting to find out what the latest situation is, why have we made reductions in Category 1 already? It just seems to be an exercise of taking money out of the system because that is the thing to do to please the Member States. As for Category 2, we may have the commitment on commitment appropriations but we certainly do not have the same understanding when it comes to payments. Taking EUR 1billion from payments, once again, is just a burden for the future. The Member States have to pay some time. It is no use trying to dodge the fact or hide it away. It will not go away. That money has to be paid for sometime. We would argue that now is the right time and that decision should not be delayed. Looking at the reductions made in Category 3, there are many areas where we will disagree and agree to disagree. In Category 4, the 10% across the board cut – I am now speaking for Parliament before it has decided this – I would assume is absolutely unacceptable. Yes, Kosovo is a priority; yes, we do want to make sure that funds are available for East Timor and earthquake victims in Turkey. But the way to do that is by a revision of the financial perspective. That will be our position, I am sure. Yes, we want a solution. We do not want confrontation between our two bodies but at the end of the day we want to make sure that development, other sections of Category 4 and external expenditure are not disadvantaged. If money cannot be spent then we will look at those areas where it may have to be reduced. But a 10% across the board cut is not the way to do it. On Category 5, the sad part is that we still see no solutions being proposed by the Council on how to solve the problem of pensions within the institutions. I am sure my colleagues Mr Bourlanges and Mr Virrankoski will add to my comments. We look forward to our first reading next month when the Council will get a pretty good idea of our opinion of its draft budget. – Madam President, with rather more levity. Last night in the Committee on Budgets when the refreshments were being distributed, Mr Colom pointed out that the small cartons of milk were marked “for distribution in schools only”. Had it said “for schoolchildren only” one could understand why it was being distributed in the European Parliament, but it was marked “for schools only”. Could we find out why this has happened? It is so embarrassing. I know we campaigned for more school milk but, on this occasion, we did not want it here. – Madam President, following on from what Mr Bourlanges said, with the last amendment we voted we have now actually gone past the margin for Category 3 which means that any amendments which are not in line with the Committee on Budgets’ recommendations are going to give us serious problems. We already have a problem. We have now gone above the margin. It is ludicrous to keep voting like this. I would ask you to respect the rapporteur’s recommendations on Category 3. . – As explained in my speech to the plenary I support the enlargement process and wish to see the applicant countries as part of the EU. But the inclusion of Annex XV in the Accession Treaty means that voting for enlargement endorses its inclusion. That I cannot do. I consider Annex XV to be a direct infringement of Parliament's rights. The worst part of Annex XV is that it enshrines in the Treaty the Agriculture ceiling from 2007 to 2013: the outcome of a shabby deal that was cobbled together by President Chirac and Chancellor Schröder, that was endorsed by the other Member States in Copenhagen and is now to be part of the Treaty. As chairman of the Committee on Budgets I find that to be an anathema to everything we have fought for. As someone who wants to see real reform of the CAP I find it to be an unbearable burden and something I just cannot agree with. This may seem to some to be a minor issue, but for me it is a point of principle that has to be made. Hence the reason for my abstention on all the final votes. Mr President, I do not want to repeat what other Members have said, especially my colleague, Mrs Dührkop, but I should just like to give a warning in relation to two of the reports you have in front of you. Later this month the Committee on Budgets will have a conciliation meeting with the Council on a variety of issues and one of those issues will be to get an across-the-board agreement on those areas where we have codecision. There are seven areas in total, three of which are on the plenary agenda for this week. We in the Budgets Committee  especially through the work of Mrs Dührkop, who has worked in a very assiduous way  have tried to seek an agreement on these reports. We now find, however, that two of the reports are giving us serious problems. If Amendments 19 to the Prets report and 14 to the Ilvari report are carried, we will have real problems when it comes to the conciliation. In fact I am sure the Council and the Commission will say that the reports actually violate the Financial Regulation. If Parliament were to reject those two amendments it would make life a lot easier. I need to give warning now that, if those two amendments are carried, I, as Chairman of the Budgets Committee, would consider that to be a breach of Rule 63a. In other words, we will taking into account the Financial Regulation and the budgetary consequences. I will stand up during the vote to ask Parliament to support an oral amendment to ensure that both these reports fall into in line with the Financial Regulation. Hopefully, when we come to conciliation, we can get a consensus on all the reports and not just five out of seven. – Mr President, in normal circumstances this procedure, as it is being proposed by the Commission, would be totally unacceptable. The  accident occurred on 19 November. Six days later Parliament's delegation was in a conciliation meeting where we agreed on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the remaining EUR 27 million for the restructuring of the Spanish and Portuguese fleets. All this could have been dealt with differently and in a different time frame. The proposal as it is violates certain principles. Firstly, it violates a procedure that is transparent. Secondly, it violates the principles of specificity of the budget established by the financial regulation. It violates last year's decision to mobilise the flexibility instrument for the restructuring of the Spanish and Portuguese fleets, and it also violates the principle of sound management since there is no margin left under heading 2, which implies that decommitments and then recommitments have to be made to make the necessary funding available. Having made all that clear, let us look at the political and the pragmatic approach. We, in the Committee on Budgets, are political and pragmatic people – not just budgetary people as people seem to think we are!  As Mr Gerhard Schmid said to me a short while ago, not everyone believes in God but they all believe in the Committee on Budgets!  The Commission proposal at least gives us the chance to use this year's budget – the 2002 budget – and that would be a better solution for taxpayers, to make sure that we are using money from this year, rather than getting supplementary own resources for next year. Whilst condemning the procedure and making it abundantly clear that this calendar of the Commission should not in any circumstances represent a precedent, I can recommend, on behalf of the coordinator of the Committee on Budgets, approval of the urgency. .  Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Magri for his speech. I do not need to remind Members that this is the last budget of this Parliament. If we look back over the last four years, we can see that there have been significant changes to the way in which the budgetary procedure has taken place. Those of us who have been here for a long time have seen many changes, not least in the relationship between Parliament and Council. We now have a minister who will sit here for three hours or so in a budgetary debate, as we had last year, which says a lot about the Council. At one time we never saw a Council minister here at this point in the budget process. I say that to be complimentary, not to be insulting. There have been a lot of cultural changes in the way the process has evolved. I suppose that we are now less confrontational. There is now more codecision between the two arms of the budgetary authority, especially when we talk about the flexibility instrument. The conciliation process that takes place in November each year is a real conciliation. I am not too sure whether the July conciliation still serves much purpose, but the November conciliation proves its worth. There has been respect on both sides for the fact that we are the two arms of the budgetary authority. I hope that the changes we have seen over the past four years will be taken forward when the Convention is finally ratified and Parliament given its rightful place as one arm of the budgetary authority, thereby maintaining its strategic role for future years. Over these last four years I have had the pleasure of being Chairman of the Committee on Budgets. This will probably be my last budget as Chairman - I hear one or two boos at the back there - but I am looking forward to seeing this budget through. It has been non-stop ever since we were elected in 1999. The first thing we had to do was try to get an agreement on the flexibility instrument for the rebuilding of Kosovo. That was quickly followed by successive discussions and arguments with the Council about how to fund Serbia, Afghanistan, the notorious fisheries agreement, and even this year we had the problem of Category 5 and how we were going to fund the administration expenditure that was needed. This period has not been without its moments. At the beginning of this year, someone asked me whether there were any problems ahead for the 2004 budget. In a moment of weakness I said, 'no, not really'. That is, however, if we do not include enlargement, potential problems with Iraq later on or activity-based budgeting. But, since we do have to include these matters, we have to try and sort them all out. All those issues need to be resolved. The 2004 budget will be far from easy for a variety of reasons, firstly because it is in the ABB - activity-based budgeting - format. The fact is that we now have to vote in a different way for a different structure, and hopefully get it right, as well as deal with enlargement. We are voting on a new structure and then we will be voting for 10, 15 or 25 countries, depending on the way you look at it. It will be difficult because of the different amendments from the groups and committees, not least including the extremely interesting amendment by the PPE-DE Group requesting EUR 500 million for the rebuilding of Iraq. I will touch on that shortly. The new Financial Regulation is also complicating matters, especially the A-30 lines. Whilst these matters are just peanuts, they seem to take up a lot of time in the committees, as every member of the Committee on Budgets knows. There is also the real question of what the real needs of enlargement are, especially within the institutions. How do we determine that reality from the proposals of the Commission as well as of all the other institutions? The two rapporteurs, Mr Mulder and Mrs Gill, have striven manfully to try to get answers to that - I am not excluding Parliament here either. The fact is that this budget has to ensure that enlargement is a success and that we treat the applicant countries as equal partners and not as second-class cousins. We have to ensure that this is done correctly. We also have to ensure that, within this new format, this debate is meaningful. Let us hope these next few hours give a real chance for dialogue and trialogue between our three institutions. In the pursuit of solutions, it is important to address questions to the institutions, rather than to produce formal set-piece statements. I should like to start that ball rolling in relation to the amendment from the PPE-DE Group that I mentioned earlier. I will be interested to know how the Commission and the Council would react if we voted through this amendment to give an extra EUR 500 million next year for the rebuilding of Iraq. – Mr President, it clarifies points 1 and 3 but I am not sure about point 2. I will settle for clarification on point 2 at 9 a.m. tomorrow morning if that is necessary, but I was not sure exactly what you said on the second point. – Mr President, I congratulate Mr Ferber on his report. These types of reports are never easy and he has done a good job. My only criticism is that Amendments Nos 4 and 5 should have been tabled in someone else's name for the PPE Group. By saying that I am being consistent: I said the same to Mrs Müller in the Green Group when she did that. I shall explain why shortly. Parliament demands that the Commission and the other institutions are prudent with taxpayers' money, and we think the same should apply to the European Parliament. As chairman of this committee, I have discovered that your loyalties are spread very wide. I have a loyalty to the committee, and when the committee takes a decision I feel duty-bound to defend that decision. I have a loyalty to the rapporteur, and that is why I have made the comments before because the rapporteur should reflect the opinions of the committee. I also have a loyalty to my political group which has given me this speaking time. This sometimes leaves me bereft of my own loyalties to myself and what I want to say. I was somewhat sympathetic to what Mr Dell'Alba was saying because we have to be careful of criticising everybody else if, at the same time, we are giving the impression that we are ignoring that prudency and just doing what we want to do. I am not saying that we have done that. However, if that is the impression we are going to give, we have to be very careful and realise the consequences. Having said that, the Ferber report has tried to balance the needs of Parliament coming into a new millennium – new needs, enlargement on the horizon – and to make it function effectively. Not all the decisions will be taken when we vote this report through. The first reading will be time when the final decisions are taken, and cognisance has been taken of that. When they see a budget of EUR 965m, the newspapers will easily deduce that is over EUR 1.5m per Member. The British newspapers will be full of GBP 1m per MEP – that is what they cost! However, we are trying to reduce those costs, especially on buildings. If people would look at what is being done with the buildings: we are trying to reduce the payments over the shortest possible time, thereby reducing the total burden on Parliament's budget. One only has to look at paragraphs 15 to 18 to see how serious we are about the buildings policy. The policy of ramassage has been a great success for this Parliament. What we have done with the Belliard building may not be ideal but at least it is a step in the right direction, and it is now off our backs. Finally, one of the great problems in our institution is that we have no statute for Members, assistants or political parties. What is being proposed is to try to make some headway towards resolving those factors. .  Mr President, I just want to thank those Members who have taken part in this debate. I thank in particular Mr Magri and his officials for being here all this time. As I said at the beginning, it is rare to have ministers here. The Danes set this trend, and I congratulate Mr Magri for keeping it up. I also congratulate the Commissioners who have participated in this debate. On the whole, it has gone quite well. However, occasionally we have strayed from the subject. The idea of having the Commissioners here is to question them directly on specific issues, and not all Members have done that. Perhaps we need to refine our act for next time. All in all, although it has been long, it has been well worthwhile.