EN
. Although my vote was in favour of the Markov report, I wish to draw attention to the fact that paragraph 11, in supporting the assignation of the entire responsibility for the structural funds to a single authority and a single minister in each Member State, may be inconsistent with the arrangements in Member States that have federal or devolved administrations. I hope that the paragraph will be interpreted in a manner appropriate to these situations. . – Mr President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Fisheries, I would like to compliment Mr Koukiadis on his report and thank him for the consideration he has given to the conclusions of the Committee on Fisheries, for whom issues of safety are a high priority. Mr Koukiadis' report directly concerns only the first of what are now three directives on working time. He pinpoints variations in interpretation, types of derogation and manner of transposal as contributing to defects in its implementation. Such problems could be compounded by the fact that different rules apply to different sectors. For example, fish processors are covered by the first directive but those engaged in fishing as such by the second. It is difficult to predict the effects of this for two sectors that are so closely related to one another. Similarly, potential changes in the nature of aquaculture may mean that different rules are needed for the future from those that fit its character today. That is why we are asking the Commission to monitor these aspects of implementation in future reports. It may be that there are other sectors for which a similar approach would be helpful. It is desirable that individual sectors are covered by rules that are genuinely appropriate to their own particular situations. However, many implementation problems might be avoided and quicker adaptation made to technological and other change if such rules could come out of agreements between the social partners. We point to the agreement between the European Community Shipowners' Association and the Federation of Transport Workers in the EU as an example of best practice in this regard. Finally, with safety so much at stake, we hope that the rules will become accepted as setting minimum standards to improve upon, rather than maximum ones to adhere to simply because that is what the law demands. – The proposals for a Council regulation on the collection and management of fisheries data and for a Council decision on a financial contribution in this respect are both very welcome. So is a joint debate on them since each can only be fully understood in the light of the other. I understand that they have been some five years in their gestation. With the review of the common fisheries policy due in 2002, it is important that swift progress is now made. To take first the proposal for the Council regulation, this makes provision for Member States to collect a wider range of data relating to fisheries than required under previous regulations. Both biological and economic information are included. The proposal also makes provision for Member States to produce such data in aggregated form. Exactly which new data are to be collected and what is to be aggregated from these and existing data will be specified by an implementing regulation. The implementing regulation will establish a minimum Community programme and an extended Community programme. It appears that these programmes will not cover the whole range of potential data but will be selective, for example, by type of fish stock. The proposal for the Council decision allows for the making of the financial contribution by the Community to Member States engaged in the collection and management of data. It also allows the Commission itself to finance studies and pilot projects. The only apparent sanction for Member States that do not completely fulfil the requirements of the minimum programme under the regulation is that they will not be eligible for any financial assistance in respect to the extended programme. Two major areas of concern about the proposal were considered by the Committee. The first relates to the degree of involvement of the Commission. The original proposal simply allowed for the information being gathered to be transmitted to international organisations. The Commission would only receive a copy of any such transmissions if it requested one. Since, however, the Community is funding the exercise, it was felt appropriate for it to see a direct return on its investment. Thus, Amendment No 6, while maintaining the freedom of Member States to transmit the data to international organisations, requires that it also be sent annually to the Commission. This change is taken in conjunction with Amendments Nos 1, 4 and 7. Amendment No 1 clarifies the point that, although the data are to be scientifically based, they are being collected for wider decision-making purposes. Amendment No 4 makes it clear that the object of the exercise is the evaluation of fisheries resources generally. Amendment No 7 calls on the Commission to report annually on the use it has made of the data collected under the regulation. It is also designed to give greater momentum to the process with earlier and more frequent reporting back by the Commission on the progress of the data collection programme as a whole. The other area of concern related to the range of data to be collected under the regulation. First, in respect to economic data, Amendment No 2 makes two changes. One attempts to ensure that the data sought are no more detailed than necessary to serve the objective being pursued. The other replaces a reference to income from sales and other revenue, subsidies, interest received, etc., with a reference simply to volume of sales. It is considered that without these changes undesirably high costs in the collection of data could be incurred in Member States and that there could also be serious problems of confidentiality. In conjunction with these changes, Amendment No 5 deletes a reference to accounting headings accordingly. Secondly, in respect to the environmental data, the original proposal speaks only of biological and economic information. The Commission has, however, made it clear that it intends itself to engage in studies and pilot projects of a wider environmental kind. It has also made it clear that it may wish to extend the range of data being collected by Member States at a later stage. Amendment No 3 brings into the ambit of the current regulation data of the kind needed to monitor changes in aquatic ecosystems. This will certainly facilitate the introduction of a new regulation concerning environmental data and may even render this unnecessary. It should be stressed that the Amendment does not in any way require the Commission to include the collection of such data either under the minimum or the extended programmes it establishes. It merely permits the Commission to do so should it so wish. As already stated the proposal for the Council decision falls into two parts. The first is concerned with financing the Member States in implementing the Community programmes. The second is to allow the Commission itself to finance pilot studies and projects. There are some minor amendments: Amendment No 2 aims to ensure that the financial contribution to Member States can cover not only the costs of collection of data but also those of its management, compilation, aggregation, etc. Amendments Nos 3 and 6 aim to smooth the timescale given that Member States will have to wait until the implementing regulation is in place to know what the programmes actually involve; and also to bring the timescale into line with the dates and the regulation. Amendments Nos 4 and 5 aim to ensure that financial information is forwarded continuously to the budgetary authority. More significantly, under Amendment No 1, the Fisheries Committee accepts the recommendation of the Budgets Committee that the funding should be placed under heading 1(b) rather than heading 3 of the Financial Perspective. Although in its preliminary draft budget the Commission entered the appropriations under heading 3 ‘Internal Policies’, Parliament created a new budget line B1-500 to finance the measures under discussion. This provides a safeguard to ensure that the necessary resources will continue to be available. – Mr President, our group very much welcomes the proposal on the common organisation of the market in fisheries, because it will improve information to consumers. It will strengthen producer organisations giving them incentives to better resource management and it will introduce greater stability into the supply of fish for processing. We also consider that there are many respects in which the report introduces major improvements to the original proposal, and we congratulate Mrs Fraga accordingly. There are, however, some areas in which we continue to have doubts. First, there are various articles, notably 11(2), where we believe that the original Commission proposals provide greater security against over-fishing than do the amendments in the report. Second, we take the view that guide prices should be fixed by reference to national ports rather than to representative ports simply because the latter idea is too lacking in specification. Third, a number of us consider that the additional costs involved do not warrant extension of some of the measures to aquaculture, though I would add this is not my own view. Aquaculture is of such major importance to Scotland where many fragile local economies depend upon it. Finally, we have very mixed feelings about Article 28 and the amendment to it. On the one hand, we fear that the amendment might delay implementation, and we also have certain concerns about its precise content. On the other hand, we accept that there should be a rational basis for tariff suspension rather than it resulting simply from a shopping list provided by Member States. We look to the Commission to provide such a rational basis. All in all, we believe that the measures being undertaken fit well with the projected regionalisation of the common fisheries policy to which we are firmly committed, and we hope that proposals to this end will be put before Parliament soon. Mr President, those of us who come from regions with permanent structural disadvantages have real reason to be grateful to Mr Pomés Ruiz for his report and the innovative ideas it contains. I speak not only for my own country of Scotland but also from knowledge of some of the more remote Greek islands and of the north of Finland and Sweden. However, the problems of island status, mountainous terrain and sparse population affect many areas in other Member States and in some accession countries too. One very great merit of the report is its recognition of the effects where these problems are combined or aggravated. I welcome particularly in this regard the proposed amendment to Article 158 of the Treaty, as also the thrust towards mainstreaming issues of structural disadvantage into EU policy more generally. However, I would like to single out the calls for mountainous regions to be classified as agriculturally disadvantaged in relation to Structural Fund regulations, for permanent geographical handicaps to be taken more fully into account where rules on state aid are concerned and for the causes of emigration to be addressed. In the latter context, the relevance of isolation and difficulty of access is already well known, particularly where islands are concerned. Therefore, I wish to couple my welcome for today's reports with that of the analysis of island regions sponsored by the Commission. Some concern was expressed in Scotland that because certain types of island were excluded from the study they might suffer where future policymaking was concerned. However, looking to the emphasis it places on the disadvantages associated with small size and population of archipelagos and on double handicap – for example islands with mountains – it was clear there was no need for such concerns. Indeed, the suggestions made in the study for more research and exchange of information and for innovative projects under Interreg looked to bring real practical benefits to all those whose lives are island ones. My thanks are thus due to the Commissioner and to the rapporteur – indeed, both rapporteurs alike. – Mr President, I wish to thank Mr Schmid for his hard work and for the way that he has succeeded in forging compromises across the political groups. His report has our broad support. That said, we have some concerns. First, we feel that too much detail may have crept both into the main report and certain amendments before plenary. Second, we wonder about some of the provisions on childcare and the reconciliation of work and family life. Are they fully compatible with sound public finance? In specifying the public sector, do they not ignore other means of delivering the same objectives as, for example, through the social partners? On plenary amendments, we think that Amendment Nos 65 and 66 may send the wrong messages, respectively by implying a reduction in wages and by suggesting a one-size-fits-all approach. We prefer our own Amendment No 58. On the positive side, we applaud the references to people with disabilities and hope that a proposal for a horizontal directive will soon be forthcoming. We endorse the objective of gender equality and recognise particularly the need for special support for women returning to work. I add my own particular concern about the continuing gender pay gap and call for a concerted effort to close it. Finally, we fully agree with the need for all stakeholders to be involved, including the parliaments within the Member States. Some are, and we welcome the initiative of others, such as the European Committee of the Scottish Parliament, to become so. But this should simply be the norm. The drive for more and better jobs is something in which we should all be directly engaged. Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Prets on her report and to thank her for her cooperation in respect of the opinion from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. I can understand the concerns of the insurance industry. The proposal will bring considerable changes to its practices and at present it is uncertain as to how to go about implementing these changes. Understandably, industry never likes uncertainty. However, I do not understand industry's argument that the current use of gender to differentiate premiums and benefits is not discriminatory because it is based on objective factors. Even if it is the case that on average young men have more car accidents than young women, or that on average women live longer than men, this is not true of all individuals, and these individuals are disadvantaged accordingly. In any event, the existence of objective differences, whether between individuals or groups, is not of itself sufficient grounds for according them unequal treatment. There must be a sound political justification for doing so. I have to say that in the 21st century I do not believe that such a justification can be provided where the routine provision of goods and services to men and women is concerned, any more than it could be where other such socially constructed groupings were involved. If I speak with some feeling on the matter it is because, on several occasions in my own life, I have experienced the kind of discrimination that this directive is intended to prevent. I do not want to see new generations bearing the same scars. I would ask insurance companies to look to see whether the changes might not actually afford opportunities to them. I would not willingly purchase an annuity because I do not believe it would offer a financially advantageous way of arranging my affairs. Perhaps I am not the only woman who feels this way. . – Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, the Committee on Fisheries accepts that in extending the rules concerning restructuring and structural assistance in the fisheries sector for one year, changes need to be made in the pilot reduction rates in order to maintain current levels. It welcomes the tightening up of provisions concerning the transfer of fishing vessels to third countries. Amendment No 6 to Article 1(3) asked the Commission to produce a list specifying which transfers are permissible and which are not. We hope it will be acceptable to them. The committee also welcomes the possibility of financial assistance being made available where any Community legislation imposes technical restrictions, but feels that Parliament should be kept informed of such cases – that is Amendment No 10. From this point, the Committee on Fisheries has difficulties with the Commission proposal in that it goes beyond an extension of the rules to making three substantive changes to them. These are: removing the possibility of an increase in capacity on safety grounds; allowing financial assistance for fleet modernisation and renewal only where objectives have been met purely by reduction in capacity; and allowing such financial assistance to any segment of the fleet only where segment of the fleet has met its objectives. In voting the report, the Committee on Fisheries rejected each of these three changes. The motivation was mixed, relating both to the desirability of the changes themselves and the desirability of making them in the course of a one-year extension of the programme. For example, both the Committee on Fisheries and the Committee on Legal Affairs took the view that requiring every segment of the fleet to have reached its objectives before any segment could benefit from financial assistance ran counter to the principles of natural justice. Similarly, the proposal that financial assistance could be given only where objectives had been met by a reduction in capacity seemed unfair to those fleets where capacity and activity reductions had been combined. There are also doubts about making such a change in circumstances where there is increasing agreement that a variety of measures are needed to reduce fishing effort. Amendments Nos 4, 7, 8 and 9 are intended to maintain the in relation to both these requests. The most difficult point has concerned the removal of the possibility of capacity increases on safety grounds. The Committee on Fisheries is highly committed to fishing safety. There is serious concern that shipowners simply will not make safety improvements unless they are given additional capacity for this. It was also argued that abuses of the provision should be prevented by proper controls and that such a change, if to be made at all, would be more properly done in the reform of the CFP as a whole. It is largely on the capacity issue that I part company with a number of my fellow committee members. Of course, we must find ways of ensuring that vessels are safe, but we can no longer afford to take risks with conservation either. The perilous state of cod stocks in the North Sea is but one example. Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 5, approved by the Committee on Fisheries, reject the changes on the capacity rules altogether. Amendments Nos 11 and 12, submitted by the ELDR Group, however, accept the Commission's approach in principle, but seek to allow capacity increases on safety grounds by way of exception for existing vessels under 12 metres. The justification for this exception is that taking away the possibility of financial assistance is likely to bear hardest on the sector and put safety improvements more seriously at risk in circumstances where they are likely to have only minor effects on capacity. I know that many of my colleagues – for reasons that I respect – will wish to take a different view, but I urge everyone in deciding how to vote on this report to bear in mind just how imperative the need for conservation has become. – Mr President, Commissioner, I especially welcome paragraph 20 on additionality and hope very much that the Commission will take particular account of the importance of transparency. I would add that this should also relate to the question of whether the principle is being complied with, not just overall by Member States, but at regional levels within them. I would also ask the Commission to consider introducing a little more flexibility at the stage when projects are being set up. I am thinking of one very worthy project within my own constituency which, because of the very short timetable and a misunderstanding, did not enable contracts to be drawn up by the end of December last year. The offer of funding was consequently withdrawn. I do not dispute that this decision was correct and I understand the Commission's wish to ensure that projects are completed in time. The sad thing about this particular decision was that the project clearly would have been. Finally, I believe that there is a great deal of merit in Amendment No 5. If I understand what is being asked for correctly, the practice already applies in Scotland. Management at this level allows for a high degree of coordination and exchange of best practice between those involved. It also encourages pioneering activities. I offer as an example our Objective 3 partnership's development of a tool kit for gender mainstreaming in structural funding. I understand that serious consideration is already being given to its use in other parts of the European Union. May I please ask the Commission to think very carefully about the merits of taking on board Amendment No 5. – Mr President, the ELDR Group welcomes the proposals that the Commission has brought forward. In its resolution on the green paper, Parliament asked for a policy that would strike a balance between the needs of environmental sustainability and of fisheries as a socio-economic sector. Indeed, the very future of that sector depends on our commitment today to the conservation of stocks. We agree that there is an urgent need to reduce fishing effort, and that this has to be effected in part by a reduction of capacity. It must, however, be done in an equitable manner, as well as in a way that reflects the actual state of the different stocks. Nor can we expect sustainability to be achieved through decommissioning alone. We need a clear picture of the other measures that are planned towards this end and how they will combine to bring it about. Undoubtedly, the promised long-term approach, setting multi-annual catch targets, will be a major improvement and help to solve the problem of discards. The proposals also bring good news, not just for juvenile fish but for other vulnerable species such as dolphins, sea birds and sharks. We welcome too the intention to bring about better enforcement of the rules and the action planned to fight illegal fishing and ensure sustainable fisheries beyond EU waters. The retention of the 6 to 12 mile limit will assist in development of conservation measures and do much to protect the coastal fishing on which many of our fragile communities depend. Confirmation from the Commissioner that the new regulation on these limits will definitively be in place by 1 January 2003 would be of great comfort. We also believe that the establishment of regional advisory panels will do much to encourage responsible conservation measures, although the role of such councils needs some clarification. We understand that the withdrawal of public aid for fleet modernisation and renewal will not be acceptable to everyone, but we believe that it is only logical in the circumstances. Nevertheless, the exception for safety is again welcome provided it is indeed for safety alone. We are particularly glad that the monies will be converted into a substantial social package to ameliorate the effects of the measures on the livelihoods of those currently engaged in fishing. It has always been a matter of concern that decommissioning measures do nothing to assist the crews of fishing vessels. If we get things right, we shall sustain both fish and fishers to harvest them. If not, we may have neither and future generations may find it very hard to forgive us. – Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on the excellent work that they have done. I speak specifically of the issue of regional management of the common fisheries policy. In fact the term zonal management better expresses the kind of development that we would like to see implemented. This would involve much fuller participation in decision making by all those with a direct interest in each of the ICES divisions, whether engaged in fishing, fish processing, science or conservation. If such a system were already in place we would not be facing the difficulties we face at present over the Commission's proposals for a cod recovery plan for the North Sea. It is the clear view of those most directly involved that, as initially announced, the plan would have both a disastrous effect on the industries concerned and an adverse effect on cod stocks, and this view is supported by conservationists. The Scottish MEPs are most grateful to the Commissioner for meeting us and for his assurances that these proposals are not yet firm ones. A great deal of work has been done locally, both in Scotland and around the North Sea, on conservation measures in general and on cod recovery in particular. I hope that the Commission will take the results of this work very seriously indeed. In particular, I would ask it to abandon the idea of requiring 140 mm mesh size and also to recognise the extent to which the Scottish fleet depends on a mixed fishery. Accordingly, instead of imposing blanket restrictions on some 15 000 square miles of the North Sea, I trust that it will opt for seasonal closures in areas where the cod concentration is high. .  Mr President, we welcome the Commission's approach, the broad thrust of which we fully endorse. We also thank Mr Hatzidakis for his excellent report. We have specific concerns relating to the European Social Fund under the competitiveness objective. First, the wider approach to social inclusion appears not to be supported to any substantial extent. We fear that many valuable projects will be lost. We hope that there will still be room for such projects, provided that they support the employment strategy. Second, national planning of programmes could prove counterproductive to addressing regional and local circumstances and involving local stakeholders. We call on the Commission to ensure genuine decentralisation in the development and implementation of programmes. Third, the disappearance of the Equal programme may lead to a loss of impetus and we wish accordingly to see a requirement for gender mainstreaming at all programming stages. Similarly, we hope for continuing availability of innovative measures as currently allowed under Article 6. Finally, we look forward to structures that will allow us to address genuine areas of need wherever they may be located. . – Mr President, Commissioner, I have a genuine admiration for the report by Mrs Sudre so what follows is in no way critical of it or of her. Nonetheless, it illustrates what I believe is a much more widespread problem about the relationship between reports and opinions, particularly those of a non-legislative kind. For example, in this report only 25 words survive of the conclusions unanimously adopted by the Committee on Fisheries. The bulk of the section dealing with fisheries actually consists of an amendment to the motion for a resolution tabled in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. There is nothing the Committee on Fisheries would object to in the paragraph concerned. Indeed, it covers certain issues more explicitly than the opinion does. On the other hand, some significant points in the opinion do not figure in the final version of the resolution. Given the importance of fisheries to the outermost regions, I can only be saddened by this. I appreciate that differences of perspective mean that it will not always be possible to reconcile views expressed in the lead committee and other committees. My concern is rather that we do not currently have any standardised mechanism for making an attempt to do so. I am asking, therefore, whether the President of Parliament would be prepared to look at ways in which improvements could be made, for example, by consultations prior to voting or by adjusting the order in which votes are taken. Without such improvements, we risk losing the benefits of a great deal of expertise, not just to our own detriment, but also to the detriment of those we seek to serve. In the meantime, and on this particular report, I would respectfully request both the Council and the Commission to look at the conclusions that are not contained in the motion for a resolution, as well as the ones that are. Mr President, I thank Mr Maat for the skilful and sensitive way in which he has handled a complex dossier. I am particularly grateful that both the Commission proposal and the report recognise the practicalities of transporting animals in remote and island regions, such as the Highlands and Islands of Scotland. The distinction between journeys for slaughter and for other purposes is an important one. Other than in the most exceptional circumstances, eight hours on the road should be sufficient for slaughter and the recommendation in the report to promote the use of local slaughterhouses should make these circumstances less likely. Movements of animals for other purposes – such as bringing on, breeding or restocking – may genuinely require longer journey times. However, both the Commission proposal and the report seem to allow too great a repetition of travel time sequences. Our Amendment No 105 seeks to place a limit on these, but one that is still consonant with reasonable farming practices. – Mr President, Commissioner, colleagues, I would like to congratulate Mrs Smet on her report and thank the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for adopting so many of the conclusions produced by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. Three things are clear: one, women's wages are on average lower than men's across all occupations; two, women are predominantly employed in areas where the work has traditionally been regarded as of less value; three, women comprise a significantly higher proportion of part-time workers than men. The problem is therefore, clearly a deeply rooted one and cannot be solved without concerted action by all parties. This must include the introduction of job evaluation schemes based on objective, gender-neutral criteria, so that the current undervaluing of women's skills is brought to an end. However, we need also, as Mrs Smet has said, a much wider range of initiatives designed to tackle the structural disadvantages suffered by women on the labour market. The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is appreciative of the extent to which the Commission is already addressing the issue through its proposals for the employment guidelines in 2002. The emphasis on gender mainstreaming and the strengthening of guideline 17 are particularly welcome. We also look forward to the proposals the Commission may have for a revision and updating of the 1975 equal pay directive. In the meantime, we call on both the Member States and the social partners to involve themselves actively in developing measures of the kind urgently needed to eliminate the gender pay gap. – Mr President, the ELDR Group fully endorses the argument that Parliament has a right to be heard. In this particular week, however, I agree with Mr Ettl that it is appropriate to add something about the need for early involvement of the prospective new members in the tripartite social summit and the state of dialogue within those countries. The way in which trade unions and employers' organisations are organised varies considerably from one country to another, as does the manner and extent of collective bargaining. The development of employers' organisations is recent and sporadic and their activities are not always coordinated. Where confederations of trade unions and employers' organisations exist, they vary in the extent to which they participate in their equivalents at European level. Much therefore still needs to be done to develop the basis for social dialogue. I know that this issue is one that the Commission has already begun to address through a variety of measures. Its work is of major importance, since cooperation between the authorities, trade unions and employers' organisations is vital for economic and social development and thus for increased employment. As the Danish Presidency has recently said, tripartite cooperation and the social dialogue need to be strengthened if the new Member States are to be able to participate in the work on equal terms with all the other Member States. We must ensure that their voices, as well as our own, are properly heard. – Mr President, it is clear from what the Commissioner has said that the Commission is conscientious in measuring the additionality of structural funding at Member State level, and it was good also to hear his assurances about the various different levels of evaluation that take place. As the Commission will be aware, however, a number of Member States within the European Union have devolved systems of regional government. Such regional systems of government are normally financed in whole or in part from central government funds. It appears to me that, under the present rules, central government can build the EU contribution to structural funding into its calculations for determining regional government budgets. There appears to be no mechanism, despite what the Commissioner said, for ensuring either of two things: first, that the additionality rule is applied to this calculation, and second, that the amount of EU funding which ultimately reaches individual regions corresponds directly to the amount earmarked for those regions at the planning stage. At the very least, this engenders a lack of transparency. It may also mean that the additionality principle is not being properly implemented on a region-by-region basis. I accept, like Mrs Evans, that this does not, strictly speaking, contradict the letter of European Union law on this matter. But, unlike her, it seems to me to be quite clearly contrary to the spirit of additionality rules and undermines the very purposes for which structural funding was established in the first place. Although I come from Scotland, I know these issues are of concern not just to my Liberal Democrat colleagues from other parts of the United Kingdom but also to ELDR members representing regions across the whole of the European Union. – Mr President, unlike some colleagues, I do not believe that this House should seek a delay in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to temporary agency workers. If we are to promote flexible labour markets then we must ensure that those working within them are not put at a disadvantage. We cannot risk temporary work being used as a way of bypassing normal employment laws rather than, as it should be, a properly regulated means of satisfying employers' short-term needs. It is for this reason that we should not emasculate the proposal by removing pay from the scope of the directive or applying it only to workers in assignments of more than 12 months. That said, I am not convinced that we have yet struck quite the right balance between flexibility and protection. There are real difficulties in implementing a fixed-term worker comparative for pay in the case of assignments of a short duration. Accordingly, I urge colleagues to support Amendments Nos 72 and 74 which should overcome this problem. Similarly, I hope for a positive vote on Amendments Nos 71 and 73 which guard against any adverse effects the directives might have in both the shorter and longer terms. Finally, my special thanks go to the rapporteur for the inclusive manner in which she has handled a very difficult dossier and my personal good wishes to her for the outcome of the vote tomorrow. Mr President, I begin by endorsing the points that colleagues have already made. I would say that Mrs Stihler's very clear and comprehensive report improves on the Commission's proposal in three major respects. Firstly, it introduces greater flexibility by allowing amendments to the geographical areas covered and by providing for additional Kilowatt days in response to appropriate technical measures. Secondly, it calls for certain reports. These are variously on the effects of industrial fishing, on the socio-economic impact of the regulation and on how far the regulation itself is achieving its objectives. Thirdly, it seeks the close involvement of regional advisory councils. The Commission's recent announcement of its proposal for establishing such bodies is welcome and we look forward to speedy progress in this regard. These measures, together with the emphasis on constraints on fishing effort being proportionate between the Member States and on improved satellite monitoring, are essential if our beleaguered fishing communities are to engage with the regulation in any positive way. We must, however, look beyond the regulation to other means of helping cod recovery and of moving to sustainable fisheries overall. The Scottish Fishermen's Federation's proposals for spatial management deserve serious consideration in this regard. Although the Scots are hardest hit, the impact is much wider, including the Irish, Danish and the Dutch, and we can learn from each other. One example is the self-monitoring currently practised by the latter. This again goes to show just how important a role regional advisory councils can play. I hope that the House will support this report, which seeks to make the regulation far less of a blunt instrument than that fashioned by the original proposal. . – Mr President, it seems clear that the Reverend Owen's situation does not involve any breach of the letter of European Community law, contrary though it may be to its spirit. The European Parliament is therefore grateful for his petition since it draws attention to a problem with the law. As the Earl of Stockton has already pointed out, because directives use a variety of terms to identify the range of working people they cover, and because that range is often left to be determined by national law, certain groups may fail to benefit from the protection they afford. It is of course accepted that there can be some differences, both in the extent of employment rights, and in the means of redress in the event of breach. This is particularly so where those involved have a particular constitutional status. Members of this or any other parliament would not, for example, be expected to be able to appeal to an industrial tribunal against the decision of the electorate not to return them for a further term. That said, all those in a working situation should have the fullest possible set of rights with deviations permissible only where these can be fully and objectively justified. In the case of the clergy, such rights may not be for the secular authorities to determine, but surely in such instances the churches themselves should aspire to the highest possible standards, particularly where avenues of redress and issues of discrimination are concerned. Following the petition we are asking the Commission to review European employment legislation to ensure that it is as comprehensive as possible. It is good to know that, in the UK, such coverage is something to which the Department of Trade and Industry is already directing its attention. We are also asking for constructive dialogue across the European Union to secure for all those in non-typical but economically dependent working situations – including, where necessary and by appropriate means, the clergy – all the employment rights, both substantive and procedural, that must be regarded as fundamental to a dignified working life. The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs regrets that the Treaty of Nice made far fewer specific changes in the area of employment and social policy than those that it had sought. It hopes that these issues will be addressed by the second report from the Constitutional Affairs Committee and by the next IGC. On the broader institutional issues, presently under discussion, we welcome the report's call for a convention to prepare for the next IGC and for a debate involving the active participation of the European citizenry as a whole. We would ask that the convention engage closely in the course of its discussions with the social partners and with civil society. In particular, we would seek consultation, both within the Member States and with the applicant countries on the issue of the provision of a legal base for the involvement of civil society in the decision-making processes of the European Union. We would also like to see Member States being encouraged to establish fora where citizens can interact with their own Parliament's on the future of Europe. We believe too that up to and beyond the next IGC, there would be merit in joint annual meetings of delegations of committees on employment and social affairs from the European Parliament, from within Member States and the applicant countries and from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We hope that a means will be found for supporting such meetings. Finally, we trust that the Charter of Fundamental Rights will be incorporated in the Treaties in a legally binding manner and we look forward in future to wide and active participation in the discussion on the future of the Union. – I too would like to compliment Mr Hudghton on his report and to endorse his additions to the original proposal in relation both to the matter of compensation and encouragement of vaccine development. I too agree that Amendments 7 to 13 are unfortunate, indeed Amendment 13 would not merely negate the intended effects of the proposal but actually would make the situation even more difficult than under current rules. This is not though to deny the importance of environmental considerations in relation to fish farming. Mr Hudghton has already referred to the final report of the UK joint government industry working group on ISA and the measures there are of relevance for fish farming wherever it happens, not just in farms affected by ISA. Secondly, looking forward to the motion for a resolution on the Katiforis report later this evening, paragraph 28 is of particular importance. This calls on the Commission and Member States to step up the adoption of measures to combat the possible negative effects of aquaculture on the marine environment. Thirdly, referring to the earlier discussion on the collection of fisheries data, I very much hope that the Commission will engage in projects and studies looking at aquaculture in the environmental context but I believe that is the way forward in relation to the environment, not the way that is suggested in Amendments 7 to 13, and I hope honourable Members will reject them. – Mr President, there are three points I wish to address. The first is the inclusion of a legal base in the Treaty. This is something I favour, but currently as part of a minority in my own Group. We are all fully conscious of the importance of tourism, both to local economies and as a factor of European integration. The problem for some of us, however, is the lack of specification of the extent of the legal base and of just how it would relate to considerations of subsidiarity. Second, there are similar issues related to the establishment of a multiannual programme for tourism. The resolution contains many excellent ideas for the promotion of different types of tourism and for its increasing professionalism. At the same time the Commission is currently concerned about confining itself to core tasks. The question has to be asked whether some of the activities suggested in the resolution might not put more pressure on its resources than is desirable. Third, there are several references in the resolution to permanent employment. Of course the promotion of this is desirable and permanent employment need not necessarily mean full-time employment. But there will always be people who are looking for seasonal employment. Students are an obvious example. We have some concern that the resolution does not give enough consideration to them and to ways in which their interests could receive specific protection. Thus, while complimenting Mr Viceconte on his report and finding a great deal in the resolution to commend, we shall be asking for a number of split votes to allow these concerns to be addressed. – Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to offer my congratulations to Mrs Roth-Behrendt on her report and to thank her for her openness to discussion on the issues involved. She will appreciate even better than I how far scientific opinion on TSEs has developed. For example, the Scientific Steering Committee has recently established that it is necessary to regard the vertebral column and dorsal root ganglion as specified risk material in the UK only for bovines over 30 months and in Portugal only for those over 6 months. That is why some of us seek an Amendment No 56 to allow adjustments in this area on the advice of the Scientific Steering Committee rather than requiring fresh legislation to implement them. Similarly, certain measures in combating TSEs have already proved effective. I refer to the exclusion of animals over 30 months from the food chain, the slaughter and disposal of suspects and offspring of BSE cases, a fully effective feed ban and the removal of a wide range of specified risk materials. Where such measures are in place, in seems unnecessary to impose the more technical requirement of the date-based export scheme and the certified animal scheme to the domestic market; hence, Amendment No 53. In addition, given that there is no evidence of horizontal transmission of TSEs, there would seem to be no scientific requirement for whole-herd slaughter. While accepting that some Member States may wish to engage in the practice, I would submit that it should not be compulsory. Indeed, we take TSE and BSE very seriously in the United Kingdom. We are committed to the safety of the public and to animal welfare. We only ask that given that we have taken these measures which we believe to be effective, you do not ask to us to take additional measures which have no scientific justification for them. – Mr President, when it is normal practice to congratulate rapporteurs on their work, it is difficult to find appropriate words to use when something exceptional has been achieved. So I shall say simply that it is a tribute to the work of Mrs Miguélez Ramos that a report that attracted over 400 amendments at the committee stage has come to plenary with only 25 to be considered. Before dealing with the nature of the substantive motion for a resolution, I want to touch briefly on the amendments by my own group. Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5 look to the international level. Amendment No 3 seeks common definitions and methodology in respect of fisheries subsidies and fishing capacity and effort and the interrelationship between them. Amendments Nos 4 and 5 are designed to improve the monitoring both of the cost-effectiveness of fisheries agreements with third countries and of fishing activities conducted in the context thereof. Amendment No 6 seeks only to soften the wording of recital H because of doubts that the CFP can actually guarantee those working in the sector living conditions comparable to those in other production sectors, although it should certainly assist in this respect. Finally, Amendment No 7 wishes merely to add recreational sea angling to the areas to which, along with deep-sea and coastal fishing and aquaculture, separate attention needs to be given. We hope that these amendments will meet with the approval of the House. More generally, we believe that the motion for a resolution has achieved a commendable balance between the demands of fishing as an economic activity and the need for conservation. In sustaining the principle of relative stability, and the six- to twelve-mile limit, it recognises the fragility of fisheries-dependent communities. In endorsing a move to multiannual and multi-species quotas, it promotes an approach to fisheries management that is better for the industry and the environment alike. It also addresses other issues of environmental concern, such as shark finning and the bycatch of citations. Further, it takes serious note of our responsibilities towards the developing world. Another of the aspects dear to my own heart is the move towards establishing a far greater input into the decision-making process by fishermen, scientists and conservationists. I add, with a touch of pride, that this is an approach pioneered in my own constituency, with the involvement of organisations such as the Scottish Fisherman's Federation, The Shetland Oceans Alliance and the World Wildlife Fund. The number of amendments at committee showed how many different and often conflicting views there can be where fisheries issues are concerned. The final report demonstrates just how well we in this House can manage to reconcile our differences. I hope that, as voted later today, it will remain something of which Parliament as a whole, the Committee on Fisheries in particular, and Mrs Miguélez Ramos, despite her modesty and her own personal reservations, can be justifiably proud. – Mr President, Commissioner, in speaking previously to this House I have pointed out that there is a tension in the proposed regulation between ensuring traceability for public health purposes and providing useful consumer information. I am grateful for recent assurances from Commissioner Byrne that the new European Food Agency will consider how such information can best be provided. Making it compulsory to include the category of animal on the label is not justified on public health grounds, nor is it obvious why it should be obligatory for the consumer to have this information. The Environment Committee's amendment makes it clear that it could be provided under the voluntary scheme where there is a demand. Further, if the labelling scheme in relation to category were to be implemented, as the Commission has earlier suggested, it could add 8 to 10% to production costs. In my own country this would mean GBP 45 – 55 or EUR 70 – 90 per animal without any benefit in return and, as Mr Goodwill has already said, the scheme could have the effect of reducing the market price of certain categories of cattle, particularly of young bulls. I very much hope that Parliament will follow the Environment Committee's lead in removing category from the compulsory scheme and that the Commission and Council too will agree not to impose this additional unnecessary burden on producers and consumers alike. . The Liberal Democrat delegation did not vote with the rest of the ELDR Group on the Schmidt report. We voted against Amendments Nos 1 to 13 and the proposal, as we wished the proposal in its current form to be withdrawn. Our reason for doing so is that we believe VAT on postal services, especially in respect of securing a universal service for packages below two kilogrammes, is a matter best left to national governments under the principle of subsidiarity. However, we remain open to considering future proposals aimed at ensuring greater competition. Mr President, anyone who has ever lived or worked in a different country or even in a town or city distant from home will have experienced some of the difficulties that may be encountered in moving from one environment to another. Such difficulties become even more important when the change in linguistic and cultural context is a major one. Yet history tells us too just how mutually beneficial migration may be, provided that it is appropriately managed. The Moraes Report tackles the issues in a way that is at once realistic, sensitive and robust. It makes practical suggestions. Experience in Canada has already shown a number of these to be effective in achieving desired outcomes. I am particularly grateful for the extent to which the report identifies problems for migrant women and measures to assist in resolving these. I am speaking too on behalf of our shadow rapporteur, Mrs Boogerd-Quaak. Unfortunately she cannot be here today, but she would like me to express her thanks for the support that her amendments received in committee. We rather regret that, given the degree of consensus the report achieved there, it has been opened up for amendments in plenary. That said, we can support the majority of them, either in whole or in part. We particularly support Amendment No 10, which makes the report more positive to enlargement, and Amendments Nos 7 and 12 on family reunification. We do, however, have major difficulties with Amendment No 4, which backtracks on the commitment already made in the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Finally, I would like to thank Mr Moraes for the work he has done to produce such a worthwhile report and express the hope that it gets the support it so much deserves. – Mr President, Commissioner, it is no coincidence that I am the fifth Member of this House from Scotland to rise to speak in this debate. That is a measure of the importance to us of our postal services. Scotland as a country is larger than some Member States. It has many remote mainland communities accessible only by road, sometimes served poorly by public transport, sometimes not at all. Such communities rely for their survival on having local facilities, such as a school, a post office and a shop. It is on the last two that the elderly, in particular, depend. Often they are located together, each service being made more viable by the existence of the other. Scotland also has many island communities, some of which can be reached by air but most of which depend on sea ferries. It has been calculated that the actual cost of carrying a letter from Edinburgh to the Central Highlands is about ten times that of carrying the same letter across London. And it is about four times the postage cost actually charged. The more remote the community, the greater the difference becomes. That is the measure of the problem. It is not to oppose liberalisation to ask that it be done in a way that takes account of these factors and allows the continuation of a universal and affordable postal service. It is for all our remote and island communities, no matter where in the European Union they are situated, and not just for the people of Scotland, that I ask you to preserve the vital lifeline that their postal services provide. – Mr President, a commitment to sustainability leads us too to support fully Amendment Nos 20 to 30 to the Stevenson report. We must ensure proper protection for sensitive nursery and spawning grounds such as the Irish Box. Sustainability also requires the use of technical measures as dealt with in the Hudghton report, but these are most effective when they have the full support of those engaged in fishing. Indeed, fishers may become pioneers in the area as happened in Scotland with the square mesh panel. Therefore we thoroughly endorse the involvement of regional advisory councils in decisions on technical measures and we hope for the speedy establishment of such councils. Finally, as regards the Fava report and the sustainability of the fisheries industry, decommissioning may be good for marine resources, but if fleets are reduced too far then the industry simply cannot survive. Even with a moderate level of reduction, effects on communities are severe. Help is urgently needed. Only today we have heard that the Commission has declared that what seems to be an eminently sensible arrangement in Scotland concerning quotas, is not compatible with common market rules. How many more blows are our fishing communities supposed to take before faith in the European project is finally lost? When we see what is happening to them, even the most committed amongst us may begin to have our doubts. Please let us act with the sustainability of resources and of industry and with communities in mind. If we do not, it may be too late on all counts. – Mr President, I would like to express my thanks to Mr Holmes for his work and join in wishing him a speedy recovery. The ELDR firmly believes that there is an urgent need to regulate this fishery. Available scientific evidence on deep-water species suggests that they are outside safe biological limits and that measures should be introduced to allow rebuilding of the stocks. Action is particularly essential in light of the fact that these fish live a long time, grow slowly and have low reproductive capacity. The majority of the amendments made by the committee seek to exempt ling and tusk from the scope of the regulation, although they would still be covered by quotas. Whilst the group accepts that these two species are caught on the continental shelf, it is imperative that they are properly regulated. If these amendments are adopted by Parliament, the ELDR will vote against the proposal as a whole. As for Amendment No 5, the ELDR believes that kilowatt fishing days are a more accurate tool to measure effort in view of the so-called technological creep and so cannot support this amendment. We are, however, favourable to Amendment No 6 which requests a review of the progress being made in achieving the aims of the regulation. The ELDR has tabled three amendments of its own. Amendment No 8 calls for an economic and operational impact assessment in relation to the expected loss of revenue and effort displacement resulting from the implementation of the regulation. Amendment No 9 seeks to outlaw the use of fixed gill nets in this fishery as they risk inflicting substantial unintended mortality on heavily depleted stocks. Finally, Amendment No 10 proposes the use of area closures to protect species which accumulate particularly densely in certain areas at certain times of the year. The ELDR is also minded to support Amendments Nos 12 and 16 by Mr Hudghton and others on greater involvement by the fishing industry and on safety respectively. It has, however, doubts as to whether fishing effort control should be the sole management tool and therefore also has doubts about Amendments Nos 11 and 14. The ELDR is concerned that Amendment No 13 may delay the implementation of the management measures and also believes that Amendment No 15 could potentially have a negative impact on the environment. On a personal level, however, I feel that regulation of catch opportunities in a mixed fishery by means of both TACs and quotas and an effort regime, based on licences, will lead to the discarding of species for which a quota is not held or where the quota has been exceeded. For this reason, I shall support Amendments Nos 11 and 14. I will also support Amendment No 15 as it represents a fairer basis for the distribution of quotas. Finally, I would like to express, on behalf of the ELDR, a profound dissatisfaction that the Council has effectively taken a decision on this dossier without awaiting the opinion of Parliament. We would hope that the Fisheries Council will see fit to take its views on board when it reaches its formal decision. . – Mr President, there is something slightly surreal about rising this late at night to deal with infringements that took place more than two years ago and in circumstances where the Commission has already come forward with proposals for reform. The exercise is nonetheless worthwhile for there are three main causes for concern; two are about the communication, one is about the proposal. The first is to do with delay. The Commission communication that should have arrived in June arrived in November. The equivalent communication for 2001 is already more than one month overdue. I hope that the Commission will be able to reassure the Committee on Fisheries that its appearance is imminent. The second relates to content. Not all the Member States reported, as required, in electronic form and the appropriate codes were not always used. Some reports were incomplete or illegible. One Member State did not report at all last year, although I understand it has subsequently done so. My own perusal suggests that Member States were not entirely consistent in the way they classified infringements. Some of the penalties appear to have been presented in aggregate form, making it difficult to identify the range imposed. All of this is regrettable, since, as the Commission itself admits, it is impossible to draw clear, coherent conclusions. Informal contacts with the Commission suggest that there has been better reporting for 2001. The Committee on Fisheries hopes that they will afford a fuller and more developed analysis. For example, the number of offences reported by Member States can only be properly understood in the context of the size of fleets involved. I hope the Commissioner will not take it amiss if I suggest that one might expect considerably fewer offences to be reported from Austria than from some other Member States. More generally, and even with much better data, a cautious approach must be adopted to interpretation. Does a higher percentage of offences reported mean that a higher percentage of offences has actually been committed or that there is simply a better detection rate? Similarly, should the fines imposed be comparable in absolute terms or only in the context of the cost of living within the Member States concerned? Properly interpreted though, the information could be invaluable as a basis for dealing with infringements during the reform of the CFP. There is sufficient evidence in the communication to show that a wide difference of penalties exists. For example, in the case of falsification or failure to record data in logbooks the average in Member States appears to range from EUR 88 to EUR 16 020. The Committee on Fisheries welcomes the fact that the Commission has addressed the issue of harmonised penalties in chapter 5 of its proposals on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. This brings me, however, to the third point of concern: the wording does not fully address the points in our report. First, there is our call for the use of objective criteria in classifying and rating the types of behaviour and penalties concerned. In this regard, we would stress the potential usefulness, properly interpreted, of the kind of data to which this report refers. Secondly, the report calls for a uniform system of minimum penalties whereas the proposal makes no mention of a minimum. Even in the case of a serious infringement, some types of activity may be more serious than others. It is not unreasonable to expect that a distinction be made between a first and a repeat offence or between cases where the behaviour was clearly deliberate and where a genuine mistake was made. What is important for justice is not that all cases are treated the same but rather that like cases are treated alike. On these grounds and taking into account the whole doctrine of the separation of powers, it would seem unacceptable not to allow a measure of judicial administrative discretion in these respects. With this caveat, I believe we can move a long way towards establishing a principle of equal treatment that, along with measures such as the establishment of regional advisory councils, will do much to create confidence in the common fisheries policy on the part of our fishing communities. We look forward to the Commissioner's detailed proposals in this regard. The Commissioner may be assured that we will scrutinise them well. Mr President, I too would like to begin by thanking Mr Cunha for producing such a worthwhile report and by wishing him well in his new role. Our debate takes place in a context where, first, some stocks in certain northern waters are in crisis and others are endangered. Second, many more are being over-exploited on a global basis. In addition, a report published last week by the International Food Policy Research Institute indicates that, if China is included, developing countries now account for more than 70% of the production of fish for food including both wild fisheries and aquaculture. The consequences are that the EU is dependent on imports of fish and that many EU fishers pursue their activities in other waters. The ELDR accepts, therefore, that there is merit in negotiating fisheries partnership agreements with third countries, rather than leaving matters to bilateral arrangements which may lack consistency both between each other and in supporting the requirements of sustainable development. We do, however, have very strong views about the nature of any agreements made by the EU. First, the agreements reached should be genuine partnership ones and of mutual benefit. We believe that our amendment to paragraph 7 gives fuller expression to this idea than the original paragraph. Second, the agreement should be both responsible and transparent in budgetary terms, so we have amendments calling for renewal of agreements to be dependent on evidence that past monies have been spent as intended. We also call for an equitable - that is just to say a fair or just - sharing of payments by the EU vessel owners involved. On paragraph 11, whilst it may be right to forecast an increase in the number of agreements reached, we cannot be certain of this and would prefer by oral amendment to replace the words 'the increase' with 'any increase'. Third, the agreement should promote sustainability. We are pleased with the extent to which the report makes reference to the principles involved and hope to see these built on where the details of any future agreement are concerned, notably by introducing specific provisions for protecting the environment. I would urge the House to support both this report and their amendments to it. As Mr Stevenson has already said, we must ensure that we do not try to solve our domestic problems by exporting them to developing countries. Experience already tells us just how counterproductive such an approach would be. Indeed, wherever we come from in the EU we have a very strong interest in ensuring the sustainability of fisheries not only in our own waters but beyond. – The proposal, as Mr Goodwill has said, has two important aims. First to ensure the traceability of beef, second to allow consumers to make a fully informed choice. Unfortunately, although the two aims are compatible, there is some tension between them where the details of the regulation are concerned. This is particularly the case in relation to Article 13 and Article 13(2) primarily serving the first and Article 13(5) the second aim. Amendments Nos 26 and 28 to 13(5) therefore seemed rather confused – one seeking less and one seeking more detailed information for consumers. For this reason, whatever the final form of Article 13, I regard Amendments Nos 15 and 29 as being of the first importance. Amendment 29 in particular will allow areas of the EU that are justifiably proud of the quality of their product to identify it as such. For my own constituency of course, Aberdeen Angus beef is already justly renowned throughout the world but I am sure the same is true for other regions in the rest of the UK and other Member States. – Mr President, politicians often have the difficult task of telling constituents that no matter how heartfelt their grievance, or how strong its moral base, there is no legal remedy. Sometimes they have the even more difficult task of having to admit that because of problems of access to justice or because of the law's own delays, the road to vindicating their legal rights will be long and arduous. Worst of all, I believe, is having to issue a warning that a court judgment in their favour may just be a set of comforting words and make no real difference in their lives. Fortunately, in a democratic society this is rare. The rule of law means just that. No-one can place him or herself outside its ambit just because of who they are or what they do. The American jurist, Lon Fuller, warned us that one of the ways in which something can fail to be a legal system is if there is no congruence between legal rules and official action. In the last eleven years we have seen three European Court of Justice judgments in favour of the . On 13 September this year the European Ombudsman sustained a complaint by them and a number of individual cases have been upheld in the Italian courts. I am well aware that the circumstances have not been easy for people on both sides of the argument. But if in this Parliament the rule of law is important to us, we must ensure that it is upheld. If in this Parliament we genuinely believe in a citizen's Europe, we must strive to secure one. As has been said, this is the third time that this issue has come before Parliament in the form of a motion for a resolution. I hope and trust that there will be no need for it ever to do so again, unless it is to thank all those involved for the fact that effective action has now been taken. – Mr President, as Mrs Stihler has already said, this proposal is of major importance for Scotland. For example, there is one of our local authority areas that has 26 inhabited islands and a coastline as long as that of France. Scotland, as a whole, has 462 different coastal plans in place, almost three quarters of them locally based. Whilst management of coastal zones must remain predominantly local, national strategies to support and coordinate action are vital. We are fortunate in having a Scottish coastal forum to perform this role. But such good work can be undermined. As the Firth of Clyde forum recently explained, we lack any measure of security, political or financial, which would give us a strong footing for pursuing longer-term management. That is why the Commission proposal is so welcome. I congratulate Mrs McKenna on the extent to which her report has amplified and clarified the text. – Madam President, Council, Commissioner, I understand the desires expressed by some of my colleagues for an end-date and for moves towards greater liberalisation. I am not expressing an objection in principle to either of these but my concern, too, is with sustaining a good-quality, affordable and genuinely universal service provision. I speak in support of the 150-gramme limit for reasons of caution. In the UK, many areas are fortunate enough to enjoy a much higher level of universal service provision than the current directive requires, but aspects of our services are already under threat, particularly post offices in rural areas. These are particularly vital in my own constituency of Scotland. No one has yet succeeded in reassuring me about the effects of the Commission proposal in both these respects, which is why I am not only supporting the 150-gramme compromise but asking for a thorough review or reviews on the effects for universal service provision before any other proposal or proposals come forward. If, as has been reported, the EU is prepared to consider sport in a special way, should we not also consider postal services in a special way? Sport is a business for some and leisure for many, but postal services, though they may be a business for many, are indeed a lifeline for us all. – Mr President, first of all I would be grateful if Commissioner Diamantopoulou would convey to Commissioner de Palacio my personal thanks for the work that I know the Commissioner has already undertaken in this regard. Coming from one of the more remote parts of Europe, namely Scotland, it is so important for us to be connected with the centre. The problems we face at the moment are acute. I refer to exports and the logistical problems that are being created, as well as the problems for the rail freight companies generally. What is an acute problem could, if matters are not dealt with properly, become a chronic one. Commissioner Diamantopoulou has already referred to the fact that what is happening with the Channel Tunnel is counterproductive to the policy which we all want to see pursued, namely that of getting freight on to the railways and off the roads. Given the present situation within the United Kingdom, the difficulties that it has in exporting and the railways there, and looking to the future of the whole transport policy of the European Union, I sincerely hope that as much pressure as possible can be brought to bear from all quarters to get this problem resolved as quickly as possible. Mr President, it is a very simple matter. Both paragraph 11 and our amendment in its original form mention the possible budgetary consequences of 'the' increase in the number of agreements in the near future. The problem we have is, first of all, that we cannot know there will be an increase and even if we could predict that, we cannot know what the increase will be. Therefore it is only logical to change the word to 'any' so that it would read: 'Calls on the Commission to draw up a sound financial chapter concerning the financing of the fisheries agreements which should take into consideration the possible budgetary consequences of any increase in the number of agreements in the near future'. I hope that is clear to the House. – Mr President, Commissioner, colleagues, if I may begin on a personal note it is now nearly two years since I was campaigning on an election platform that stressed the need for proper statutes for Members and their assistants. It is extremely embarrassing to have to admit to the public at home just how slow progress has been where both statutes are concerned. Of the two, I am more embarrassed in respect of the assistants' statute because this is a case where as MEPs we are directly responsible in matters affecting the lives of others. My group is grateful to the Commission for its approach to Professor Vandersanden and for the proposals that he has made. We have not yet discussed in detail his substantive suggestions as to what should be done within the Parliament's own rules of procedure. We may therefore find ourselves disagreeing with these suggestions in various respects. We do however believe that his methodology which distinguishes between what might be achieved under these rules and what actually requires legislation are a promising route forward. We are very glad to hear of the outcome of the trialogue and the Commission's statement today promising proposals for the revision of Regulation No 1408/71. We would add however that whatever scheme is ultimately adopted, and by whatever means, it must have certain characteristics. First, it must be simple. It must be simple both in terms of clarity and in terms of its administration. Second, it must provide the legal certainty. This means that it must be comprehensive in its coverage of the employment relationship. This need not mean rigidity and uniformity. It means only that, for example, all assistants must be properly covered for any accidents occurring to them in the course of their work. Third, it must be transparent. In my own personal view we should be trying to move towards a system where there is equal pay for work of equal value. Given though that assistants may be employed in a number of different locations and have different tasks to perform, this may be difficult to achieve. We should at least however seek to ensure that no one is allowed to fall below a certain minimum and that the reasons for any differentials are clear. I believe that in the long term there can be no substitute for a proper statute but we do at least now have an initial path to follow. I hope that we move down it as rapidly as we can. – Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to join the name of my own group in expressing sympathy and solidarity with the families of the deceased and the survivors of the shipwreck and gratitude also to those involved in the rescue operations. It is human nature to be the more affected by a tragedy the closer it comes to one. If I speak with special feeling in this debate, it is because over the years Greece has become another home to me. I have had many opportunities during this time to observe just how skilful Greek seamanship can be. But the issue cannot be localised in this way. In recent years many other lives have been lost at sea in our waters, not only by way of major ferry disasters but, on all too frequent a basis, from amongst our fishing communities. That is why we have to address issues of maritime safety more generally and in the constructive way suggested in this motion. I, too, would put particular stress on the need to implement properly the legislation we already have. I would ask that we become even more cautious than we ever have been before about allowing derogations from future legislation where matters of safety are concerned. Nor are such issues important only for those of us who come from areas where the sea is our highway or our place of work. They are important for us all, even when we are not immediately affected. This is so, if only because, in the words of the early English poet, John Donne, any man's death diminishes me because I am part of mankind. – Mr President, the ELDR Group would like most sincerely to congratulate Mrs Hermange on her report and on the unanimity that it achieved in committee. That said, it is only fair to give notice to the House that we may find ourselves less able to form part of a consensus when the Commission brings forward some of the proposals referred to in paragraph 14. In some cases it will depend on the form of the proposals, given our commitment to subsidiarity; in others, it will depend on their exact content. I would, for example, express my own concerns in both respects over the second indent of the paragraph and any proposals for providing a tax and legislative framework for the development of the social economy, the third sector. Many voluntary organisations have already expressed their worries to me that such a measure, unless we get it exactly right, could well prove more of a hindrance than a help to their activities. This is just one of the reasons why I would like to give wholehearted support to the first indent of paragraph 14. Knowing how much volunteers contribute to our well-being, I sometimes wonder just how much of a society we would have without their efforts. We urgently need a proper legal base for the civil dialogue. Without one, we will find it much more difficult to do what the President of Parliament urged us to do yesterday: involve EU citizens in the creation of a Europe fit for its future. Mr President, the original Commission proposal may just be possible in the context of the small number of sheep or goats kept in an enclosed field, although even here there are concerns in relation to animal welfare. By contrast, the Adam report recognises the practicalities of hill farming and of managing flocks on a large scale. It also recognises, as the beef labelling regulation failed to do, that the requirements of traceability for the purposes of disease control are different from those involved in providing information for consumers. The possibilities of using individual and/or batch identification, the simplification of coding and alternatives to double tagging, as proposed by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, are all very welcome. Although I would prefer not to have had any date specified for the introduction of electronic tagging, I am glad that the committee has recommended a year's postponement and a real cost-benefit analysis, as well as calling for the EU – not farmers – to bear the financial burden involved. Trials of the equipment to be used will also be of major importance. Can the chosen identifier be securely and safely located as far as the animal is concerned? Will both placing the identifier and using the electronic reader be feasible on difficult terrain and in adverse weather? Will the reader be robust enough to withstand these conditions? These are issues on which farmers are rightly looking for reassurance. I hope it will be afforded to them. I conclude by congratulating the rapporteur on his report and on the fact that it received the unanimous support of the Agriculture Committee. I hope for a similar outcome in tomorrow's vote. I join colleagues in urging the Commission to accede to our views. – Mr President, Commissioners, I greatly welcome the possibilities for increased trans-European cooperation under INTERREG, but my concern is that the proposal offers fewer opportunities in this respect for maritime than for other areas. I understand the Commission’s own concern that distance may prove detrimental to effective cooperation. Nonetheless, there are many maritime areas between which links are already established. Various local authorities around the North Sea provide a prime example of this. INTERREG could well allow enhancement of such cooperation. In consequence, I seek some small adjustments to the guidelines to provide a little more flexibility and to accommodate the ways in which the interests of maritime areas can fall between strand A and strand B. These adjustments include clarifying the possibilities for cooperation between maritime areas and permitting greater development of practical and visible projects, particularly those of an infrastructural kind. Such measures will put maritime and insular areas on an equal footing with other areas of the EU. I hope for their adoption. – Mr President, the proportion of freight transported by rail within the EU has almost halved over the last thirty years. It is vital, if we are to have a truly sustainable transport policy that this process is reversed. I congratulate Mr Swoboda and Mr Jarzembowski on their excellent reports which, if adopted, will make a major contribution to railway development. I share some of Mr Watts' concern, however, about Amendment No 1 in relation to the licensing of railway undertakings and the proposed deletion of the replacement Article 12. In any liberalisation process it is very important to ensure that certain standards are maintained, for example those relating to the safety of both workers and consumers. At the same time we need to prevent artificial barriers being put in the way of the opening up of markets. Fulfilling both of these objectives requires a delicate balance to be struck. I doubt both whether Amendment No 1 serves its intended legal purpose and whether it could have the effects that Mr Watts fears. I believe it could send out the wrong signals. Instead I seek support for Amendments Nos 23 and 24 which, taken together, should have the effect of securing the second of the two objectives without detracting from the first. – Mr President, in supporting this motion I speak particularly of the need to give financial assistance, both to cushion the socio-economic effects of the measures that have been taken and to help the industry to survive until the stocks have recovered. For colleagues whose constituencies are landlocked I offer the following analogy: supposing for good environmental reasons, such as a drastic cut in CO2 omissions, road haulage operators were told by the EU that they could only use their lorries for two weeks out of every four, and then only on condition that a significant proportion of the vehicles were taken off the road altogether. Imagine the fiscal consequences for the businesses concerned, then imagine that these businesses are the mainstay of towns and villages with fragile economies, and think what the outcome would be for local shops, schools and other services. Sadly, we who represent fishing communities around the North Sea - certainly those of us from Scotland - do not need to use our imaginations. We can already feel the effects. Of course assistance with restructuring can be given from within Member States. As Mrs Stihler has already said, the Scottish Executive has managed to find GBP 50 million from its already restricted budget. That is a measure of the seriousness of the situation. But I believe that the EU too must shoulder some of the financial responsibility. This is in part because past shortcomings of the CFP have contributed to the crisis. To a larger extent, it is because any democracy must adhere to the moral principle that where the direct effect of legislation is the destruction of people's honest livelihoods, they are at least compensated accordingly. I hope that the EU counts itself as such a democracy and that this principle will be fully expressed in the forthcoming vote. – Mr President, there are three aspects of Mrs Peijs' excellent report that I would like to highlight and illustrate by way of example. Although these come from my own constituency, I know they are representative of many similar regions. First, intermodality and the need to optimise infrastructure links to the hinterland. This week we have voted for environmentally-friendly measures designed to encourage more freight on to rail. Good rail access into ports is vital in this context. We have to accept, however, that there are times when it is roads that provide the necessary access into the hinterland. I cite the placing on the TENs map of the A75 from Gretna to Stranraer, given its importance for sea transport to and from Northern Ireland. Second, the extent to which outlying regions and islands depend on the sea for contacts with their neighbours. We often look on the sea as something that separates communities. We are better viewing it as a highway that connects them. My group endorses Amendments Nos 1 and 4 accordingly. I would add, though, that for environmental sustainability we should look upon connections between peninsulas in the same way. In the west of Scotland the route from Gourock to Dunoon is twenty times as far by road as it is by sea and that from Tarbert to Portavadie is twenty five times as far. Third, it is essential that we continue to recognise the lifeline nature of many short sea shipping routes. I am not thinking just in terms of the need to sustain public service obligations in this context. We also need to find other permissible ways of reducing the costs associated with transport to island and outlying communities. Their economies are invariably fragile ones and it is just not good enough that the farmers on the Isle of Lewis have to pay twice as much for their hay as farmers living near Inverness. I hope the Commission will take such points into serious consideration when developing policy in the area. – Mr President, I should just like to say that I hope the Conference of Presidents will take serious note of the numbers – or rather lack of numbers – of Members in the Chamber voting on that very important report. – Mr President, we need to ensure the viability of the sector that is vital for employment and economic and social cohesion in the Union's coastal areas. We need to maintain sustainable marine ecosystems conserving fish stocks for future generations. Parliament's resolution the green paper identified the fundamental aim of the CFP as attaining a balance between the two. ELDR amendments to the Jové Peres report seek to ensure the long-term future of the 12 mile limit and of relative stability. These are essential both to the sustainability of fragile coastal communities and of the stocks on which they depend. We aim to specify more clearly the other measures that need to taken to protect stocks. We would rename regional advisory councils as regional management councils. This makes it clear that such councils should have a real role in helping to formulate and to implement the measures needed under the reformed CFP. In particular, we must use these councils to help achieve the fullest possible understanding of the functioning of marine ecosystems. For example, recent research suggests that an increase rather than a decrease in nephrops quotas could actually be positive for the regeneration of cod stocks. Finally, balancing the viability of the sector and the sustainability of stocks is not just a matter for the reform of the CFP. It is precisely what is required in the current cod crisis. It is good that the Commission has addressed the socio-economic problems but the measures so far seem like prescribing a couple of aspirins to cure a severe case of pneumonia. So we are formally in support of the resolution. Let us hope that a proper implementation of CFP reform will prevent any such crises arising in the future. – Mr President, I have two concerns about paragraph 6 of Mr Cunha's report, on which I congratulate him as a whole. First of all, the automatic reduction in quotas for Member States in breach. My concern is that the effect of this is actually to impose the sanctions in the wrong place. If we reduce quotas, it is fishermen and their livelihood that will suffer. It is simply contrary to the principles of justice to punish some people for the faults of others. My second concern is with the reference to the relative stability principle. In my view, the argument that the paragraph does undermine that principle is a compelling one. As it stands, there is a reference to an automatic reduction of quotas with no specification as to extent or time-limits. This could lead to a major erosion of traditional fishing rights. It is very different from the reduction in the case of over­fishing, which simply restores the balance. I am aware of the amendment that suggests that the reduction should simply be a temporary one, but I think it would be far safer to take out the references to quotas and the relative stability principle altogether. I accept entirely that we need serious and effective penalties but please let us make sure that they respect the principles of the common fisheries policy and fall on those who deserve them. – Mr President, Commissioner, there are many endangered stocks world–wide. We in Scotland know how painful it is for the fishing industry when crisis conditions are reached, but we cannot solve problems in the EU by exporting them. We must seek responsible and sustainable fisheries everywhere. The ELDR would like to thank Mrs Miguélez Ramos for her hard work on the dossier; we find particularly valuable the stress that is placed on the need to secure greater compliance with international law and for improved measures against illegal and unreported fishing. In this context we agree that the Commission must be resourced in a way that allows it to play a fuller role in regional fisheries organisation. We have, however, regularly expressed our concern on two issues. First, our fisheries activity at international level, and in particular any agreements reached directly with third countries, must be made compatible with our development policy. Secondly, the cost of the external dimension of the CFP is already approaching a third of its total budget. This cost is likely to increase if we are serious about fuller participation in regional fisheries organisations and about securing greater compliance with international law. It has already been said that each euro invested from public funds generates another three in business terms. In these circumstances it seems only appropriate that those vessel owners who benefit from third–country agreements should take on a fairer share of the financial burden involved. The ELDR amendments address these developmental and financial concerns. We hope that the House will support them and that such issues will be given much fuller consideration in the debate on the recent Commission communication on fisheries agreements with third countries. – Mr President, I would like to reiterate the thanks to the rapporteur for the extremely cooperative manner in which he has embarked upon this important report and I am pleased to participate in the intimate gathering of renewable fanatics so late at night. Three points – firstly, the whole issue of a level playing field. It seems to us essential that if we are going to give renewable energies the breathing space and the momentum that they merit, it is right to try and aim for a level playing field. That requires, above and beyond everything else, downward pressure on the unacceptably high and legally dubious levels of subsidies which continue to flow to fossil energy sources in the European Union, notably, but not excusably, the coal industry in a number of large Member States. As long as those market distorting subsidies to fossil fuels continue we cannot realistically talk about a fair or level playing field in the European Union. In that context we join with the rapporteur in feeling that some kind of special provisions concerning subsidies are merited as long as those market distorting subsidies continue elsewhere. On targets, I very much side with Mr Linkohr. We cannot be serious about this without trying to add teeth in some form, moral, financial or otherwise to the concept of targets. We were not very happy with the early versions from the rapporteur because we felt the targets were there to almost micro-manage the market in renewable energy sources. That is neither viable nor desirable, but a mixture of the pressure towards targets, combined with competition between effective renewable energy industries, seems to us to be the long-term approach we should all adopt. Finally, I would make a plea on behalf of my group: let us not set up yet another agency. Paragraph 22 of this report calls for the establishment of a European sustainable energy agency. This Parliament and the European institutions have been spawning a blizzard of new agencies all over the European Union. It does not necessary help us to follow the policies which we wish to follow – it could actually have the effect of ghettoising the policy altogether. – Mr President, I have been most surprised by the arguments from the Council and the Commission suggesting that a marketing ban would be, as they say, "not WTO-secure", yet the WTO rules in this area are distinctly unclear. It is just as likely that a marketing ban will prove to be "WTO-secure" as it will "WTO-insecure". The point is this: the arguments about WTO rules are purely hypothetical. It is not entirely appropriate in my view to move from the arguments of substance for and against a marketing ban to a much more convoluted and esoteric debate about WTO law. A more honest approach – the approach advocated by this Parliament – is to adopt a marketing ban as soon as possible, and then deal with the WTO aspects separately in the unlikely event that our laws are successfully challenged in the WTO. That would be a better approach, both right in principle and right in practice. – Mr President, on behalf of the ELDR Group I would like to signal our strong support for the efforts of both the European Commission and the Council to persuade our international partners of the virtues of a broad-based new round of WTO talks, covering a wide range of issues. In order that the right compromises can be made between the different and complex issues facing the international trade system today it does indeed seem essential that the talks should cover a comprehensive agenda from traditional tariff reductions to crucial issues such as the environment and labour standards, and new topics such as competition and investment. You can count on large parts of this Parliament to give you robust support when arguing against those who may wish to confine the round to no more than a narrow series of sector-specific commercial trade-offs. I also welcome the openness with which Mr Lamy has commenced his working relationship with this new Parliament, and I also welcome his support for changes to the Treaty in the forthcoming intergovernmental conference to strengthen the role of the European Parliament in the common commercial policy. It would be a benefit to the Union as a whole if the Commission and Parliament could increasingly stand together in international trade negotiations. However, if the European Parliament is to play a new and more responsible role it must be given greater access to the information governing trade issues than is presently the case. New responsibilities should be accompanied by new rights. For that reason I would like to ask the Council two specific questions. First, the Commission has already stated that it has no objections to the inclusion in the conclusions which will be adopted at Seattle of wording on the role of the European Parliament in the conduct and completion of the new WTO round. Could Mr Sasi confirm the presidency will draft such new language? Second, could Mr Sasi confirm that the presidency will come forward with new proposals to facilitate the fullest possible provision to the European Parliament of documents discussed in the 133 Committee in the Council, accompanied, if necessary, by special procedures to protect confidentiality? Since Mr Sasi has kindly agreed to come to the meeting of the European Parliament’s Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on 12 October, I suggest he presents his formal response to both these points at that meeting. If we could move forward on those two points, I feel both the accountability and legitimacy of the European Union’s negotiating position in the Millennium Round will have been significantly strengthened. – As my colleague Bill Newton-Dunn said, we have a number of colleagues in the UK who are indulging in fairly standard if facile anti-European scaremongering on this proposal and they have got a large number of sugarbeet farmers extremely worried. We need your help to be able to persuade our constituents and our farming community that the claims made by the anti-European wing in our political environment, and indeed others, are wrong. To that end, could you perhaps reassure me firstly when the impact assessment will be available to us so that we can cite it to perhaps explode some of the apocalyptic claims that have surrounded your proposal and, secondly, give some more details about the safeguard clause which I think you are considering introducing into this measure and also the transition period before the measure finally gets implemented? – Mr President, reading the newspapers one would think that the European Council in Barcelona is going to settle every detail of this legislation. The press suggests that Barcelona will determine whether energy liberalisation takes place at all or not, and yet I do not see Mr Blair, Mr Aznar or other prime ministers here. This is an important point: the liberalisation of the energy sector, one of the last components of the single market yet to be subject to single-market disciplines, is a legislative process. We must assert our fundamental role in that legislative process. This legislation will go through to second reading well after the political pyrotechnics of Barcelona are long forgotten. It is essential, therefore, that at first reading we establish the principles of the legislation so that at second reading we can indeed push through a proper liberalising energy package. Mr Chichester referred earlier to the need to get the details right. He is absolutely correct. In that spirit I have two specific questions for the EPP-ED Group, which has been keen to promote itself as the liberal voice on this issue and yet, I fear, may be voting quite differently tomorrow. Firstly, will the EPP-ED Group support the amendment adopted in committee to make sure that nuclear decommissioning funds cannot be used as a cross-subsidy for electricity operators? If not, it should explain why not, because of the risk of destroying the level playing field. Secondly, will it withdraw its own amendments, passed in committee, which insist on negotiated access? If those amendments are retained the package will be severely undermined. I look forward to working with you in the vote tomorrow. This has been an excellent cross-party endeavour and on behalf of the ELDR Group I wholeheartedly support the result. – The annual legislative programme is the most concrete manifestation of the European Commission's key constitutional and political power, namely the exclusive right of initiative. Such power must at all times be rigorously justified and clearly explained. Yet this year's work programme, as in all previous years, does not provide detailed justification for each of the multitude of new measures proposed. A 15-page general summary does not exactly do justice to the 500 initiatives cited in the annex. In future, the ELDR will therefore insist that there is clear justification for, and specialised parliamentary debate on, all measures announced in the work programme. In particular, we will be looking for evidence that each new proposal has been properly tested against the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and we will be looking for sector-specific debates in the European Parliament's own specialised committees. In other words, it is now high time for a comprehensive overhaul of the somewhat antiquated way in which this crucial programming document is developed and debated in future. – First, two questions addressed to the Commission. Paragraph 9 of the draft report talks about the need to preserve the peace clause and special safeguard clause for a provisional period. I am very curious to know what your views are on the preservation of those clauses as the talks proceed. Secondly, paragraph 22, which Mr Seguro just mentioned. I understand that GATS do not necessarily affect publicly controlled utilities. I was wondering if you could perhaps expand on what the implications of GATS might be on utilities which have already been privatised. Now, two observations. Firstly, it seems to me that there is a unique opportunity for increasing common ground between the EU and the US as far as agriculture is concerned. This is principally because of the profligacy of the American Government in supporting American farmers to an ever greater degree over the last few years, in a sense removing the moral authority that the US has had in the past in accusing the common agricultural policy of being wasteful and distorting. I wonder if you really feel there is an opportunity for you and the US to find new common ground in the agriculture talks. Finally, you will not be surprised to hear that I wish to stress the importance of the latter part of paragraph 40. The Nice Summit might have been a halting step forward in terms of efficiency, but it is a serious step backward in terms of legitimacy and transparency as far as the conduct of the EU's trade policy is concerned. This is notably exemplified by the way in which the 133 Committee continues to take important and highly political decisions in the trade field without any published records or public account. In view of the lacuna which has opened up after the somewhat pot-pourri result of Nice, I urge both the Commission and the Council to look very favourably at the idea of an Interinstitutional Agreement in this field. If not, the moral authority of the whole European Union on transparency and legitimacy is seriously weakened in the WTO. – Three points: first of all on this important issue of SMP. We have made a stab at trying to enhance and improve the text but I am concerned, as was Mr Harbour, that we may actually have complicated matters, so whilst I feel that we have added a menu of additional concepts, a mélange, a pot-pourri of new tools to deploy under the title of SMP, I wonder whether we should perhaps be a little more bold in the second reading and perhaps think of drawing back where we consider, on reflection, those new concepts might actually be adding to confusion rather than diminishing confusion. Second point: NRAs. This is really a point I would like to address to the Council, not that there is much point in doing it here this evening, but the Member States cannot have it both ways. They cannot have their cake and eat it. They cannot wish to see a vibrant pan-European telecoms market established and yet not have any meaningful criteria attached to the way in which NRAs operate. That is an unsustainable position and, politically, we should push the Member States harder and harder on this. There need to be clear criteria of independence and autonomy and proper resourcing which we need to really push upon the Member States, and not be swayed by their slightly misleading claims that it is all to do with subsidiarity and therefore none of our business. Finally, on the all-important Article 6 of the Paasilinna report and the vexed Amendment No 33, which Mrs Niebler spoke about earlier, we should perhaps have another look at it in second reading. I am not sure if you have the balance right. I am clear at this stage – and my group will vote against it – that those provisions should not cover ‘must carry’ provisions and we will be voting against that section of that amendment tomorrow. Finally, I wonder whether as legislators we really do make good telecoms junkies, to quote Mel Read. I just leave that as a question mark. – Mr President, I too would like to repeat all the thanks that have been conveyed to all those involved in this excellent committee of inquiry, particularly the Chairperson, Mrs Redondo Jiménez, and Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, both of whom played exemplary roles in the whole process. I would also like to register a note of thanks to the countless people in the United Kingdom who helped organise our visits to the various parts of the UK during the course of our investigations. It was quite a challenge for many of them to deal with this rabble of argumentative poly-lingual MEPs who suddenly descended upon them, but on the whole those visits went extremely well. The report, as many speakers have said, is judicious and balanced. It is bold and forthright in exactly the right areas, particularly on vaccination and import controls. The report conveys some very clear messages about what should be avoided in the future and what should be done in the horrific eventuality that another outbreak occurs. On both of those points, it is clear that the report has already had an influence on the shift in public policy which is starting in the United Kingdom. I would join Mr Sturdy and others in saying that the response, particularly on the issue of import controls – certainly within the United Kingdom – is still too slow. Insufficient resources have been allocated to that important task. I see that the PSE Group and the rapporteur have tabled some amendments to protect the reputation of the United Kingdom Government. I would only suggest to my colleagues that they should not be so over-sensitive. It is simply part and parcel of the independence of a committee of inquiry such as this that there should be some critical remarks. Frankly, it is an aspect of independence that the government has deliberately shunned by refusing to hold its own public inquiry in the UK. Some of the amendments which have been retabled seem to be just plain wrong. I pick out arbitrarily an amendment which says that there was no evidence of health or environmental problems arising from some of the burial sites in the south-west. I would invite my colleagues, for instance, to see and visit, as I have, the Viridor site near Kingsteignton in the south-west and then come back and say to me with any real confidence that they think there are no environmental or health effects. If they speak to any of the residents in that locality, they will see what a silly amendment that is. Finally, I would ask colleagues to pay particular attention to paragraph 128 of the draft report. The ELDR Group will be asking for a split vote to delete the last sentence of paragraph 128. That last sentence suggests that any compensation in future should be conditional on appropriate insurance mechanisms being in place. We are very keen that a study should be made on the feasibility and the pros and cons of insurance systems, but we do not feel it is appropriate at this stage to make any future compensation automatically dependent upon the existence of insurance schemes. – Mr President, it seems to me that the outcome is a vindication of the Community method. Much of the process was kick-started and propelled by the declarations at the Lisbon Summit, but nothing would have happened if those declaratory statements had not been turned into excellent and workable proposals by the Commission. They were then propelled forward by some superb cross-party work by rapporteurs in this Parliament and fixed as a result of innovative negotiating skills on the part of the Belgian presidency and from Mr Daems – who contrived to include a gastronomic tour of Brussels in his valiant efforts to secure consensus. This combination was successful in dragging Member States and national regulatory authorities – some of them kicking and screaming – towards a workable pan-European approach. That seems to me to offer some lessons for the Barcelona Summit next year: if we want to push forward the economic reform agenda in this sector and in others, we need to continue to rely on the tried and tested Community method and not resort to the intergovernmentalism that frankly was implicit in much of what the Council seemed to suggest in the negotiation positions it took on this package. – Mr President, I would like to ask three sets of questions in the very generous allocation of 120 seconds given to me this afternoon. Firstly, on agriculture. Obviously, like everybody, we in the ELDR Group share the enthusiasm for the outlines of the deal on the reform of the common agricultural policy. We accept entirely that the tactical priority must now be to turn the tables on the Americans in particular, and to see if they will put their money where their mouth is as far as agricultural reform is concerned. My group has a number of outstanding questions. Firstly, whilst there is visible progress in this reform on the elimination or the reduction of trade-distorting internal support, what about market access? There is nothing in that package that  includes improved market access: beyond a reiteration that the European Union takes in more products than anybody else, I want to know at what point are we going to offer greater market access? Also at what point are we going to really tackle some of the unforgivable aspects of certain sector-specific regimes still in place, notably in sugar? The second set of questions concerns the Singapore issues. My group accepts the basic view that the Singapore agenda is one that is worthwhile pursuing, but we are still not quite convinced that the legitimate concerns of developing countries about the scope and complexity of those talks have been addressed. What assurances can the Commissioner give us that those concerns will be addressed by or at the Cancun summit? Final set of questions. The Commissioner suggested in his opening remarks that he would act as if he were anticipating the outcome of the next Intergovernmental Conference as far as increased powers for the Europe Parliament are concerned. Could he give me an assurance today that, even if the treaty flowing from the Intergovernmental Conference, which includes the power of assent of the European Parliament, is not yet ratified, in those circumstances he would still submit the outcome of next year's conclusion of this round to us for a vote of assent? – Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Lamy for his interesting and helpful remarks this afternoon and to reiterate on behalf of the ELDR Group our gratitude to him and his staff for the close cooperation which we successfully established in Seattle. One general remark if I may. Much has been said since Seattle about the procedural and organisational shortcomings of the WTO. Whilst all proposals to improve WTO procedures are naturally welcome, there is a danger that we might be embarking on the reinvention of the wheel. The WTO is an intergovernmental organisation with over 130 members, so it will remain, by definition, a somewhat cumbersome decision-making forum. That is, unfortunately, the unavoidable nature of the beast. A concentration on procedural and organisational issues should not blind us to one simple fact: if the political will had existed in Seattle, particularly within the US Administration, the procedural flaws of the system would have been overcome. Thus our primary task remains a political, not a technical one, namely to rehabilitate the public case for further trade liberalisation, not only for the benefit of European businesses and consumers, but most particularly because open trade offers the only viable long-term solution to poverty in a developing world. That is why the ELDR Group hopes that the Commission, the Council and this Parliament will embark on a proactive attempt to remake the political case for further trade liberalisation in general and for a new comprehensive round, rather than an intermediate round, in particular. The EU/US Summit which takes place the day after tomorrow is exactly the right place to start since it is the US which has been found to be most politically wanting in recent weeks and months. The need for EU political leadership which was amply on display in Seattle in international trade affairs is now more acute than ever. Whilst to focus on procedural details is essential, no amount of organisational improvements will compensate for the biggest loss at Seattle, a loss of political conviction in the merits of open, multilateral rules-based trade liberalisation. – Mr President, on behalf of the Liberal Group I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Schwaiger, on his outstanding efforts in forging a broad cross-party approach to this hugely important issue, which will have consequences for us all for many years to come. The ELDR remains unambiguously supportive of further trade liberalisation, of the strengthening of the multilateral trade system and of a broadly based negotiation covering a wide range of existing and new trade matters. Our hope is that this report, when adopted by Parliament tomorrow, will serve as a clear signal of our political backing for a comprehensive round at a crucial stage in the preparations for Seattle. This Parliament also has a central role in allaying legitimate public fears about the consequences of globalisation. In some quarters a misplaced view has arisen that the WTO is a malign agent for all the negative effects of globalisation. In truth, without the WTO we would be unable to construct the global legal and regulatory architecture which is indispensable to any coherent political response to globalisation. Without the WTO the law of the jungle and the power of might over right would prevail – hardly an outcome the critics of the WTO would welcome. For these reasons we have been active in tabling a series of amendments to the report, pushing for the development of new WTO rules in areas such as the environment, now directly affected by international trade policy. We have supported all efforts to strengthen the place of developing countries in the world trade system, not least by underlining the inescapable need for continued reform of the EU’s common agricultural policy. We have also pushed, and will continue to do so, to ensure the WTO is more transparent and the European Commission more accountable to the European Parliament in the conduct of trade policy. This must include, as a minimum, an automatic Parliamentary right to subject any WTO deal to assent and much greater access to the negotiating briefs discussed within the Council. At the same time the ELDR has resisted all attempts to burden this report with a shopping list of sector-specific requests. That is why tomorrow we will vote against those sections of the report which call for exceptional treatment for particular sectors. We must accept the consequences of our support for a comprehensive trade round. Comprehensive means all-encompassing; it does not mean riddled with exceptions. Finally, a word on China. Late on Sunday night a bilateral deal was struck between the US and China on China’s accession to the WTO. China’s entry into the WTO will, arguably, have as far-reaching an effect as anything which will take place in Seattle. It is impossible to separate the question of China’s accession to the WTO from our wider consideration of the EU’s position in Seattle. The EU is in a delicate position as the last major WTO player not to have concluded a deal with China. An optimistic interpretation would suggest that Europe is now in a strong position to exploit and build on the concessions already secured from China by Washington. However, the fact that European Commission negotiating officials were reported a mere week before the US deal as discounting the likelihood of Chinese accession any time soon may suggest that the European Union has not been negotiating as convincingly as might be hoped. There is clearly a risk that Europe will now be forced into a corner in the talks with China. The ELDR has always strongly supported Chinese accession to the WTO but not at the cost of legitimate European interests, which do not always converge with American commercial interests. I therefore call on the Commission to give an urgent account of the Chinese accession talks to Parliament, and particularly as to how they may affect our preparations for Seattle, so that Parliament can vote tomorrow on Mr Schwaiger’s report in full command of all the relevant facts. With these important caveats in mind, I would like to confirm the ELDR’s broad support for Mr Schwaiger’s work and reiterate our warm thanks to him. – Thank you very much for that reply. Let me reiterate my appreciation that the Commission and Parliament are, for the first time, speaking with one voice on changes to Parliament's role in important trade agreements. I just want to ask you a non-legal and institutional question: if we look, for instance, at the decision which was taken to submit the Uruguay Round conclusions to the assent of this Parliament, there were some legal questions relating to the institutional and budgetary implications of the Agreement, but the decision was fundamentally a political recognition that this was an agreement of such importance that the strict boundaries of what was then Article 113 could, so to speak, be overstepped, thus allowing the Agreement to be submitted to Parliament's assent. My own view is that the accession of China to the WTO, whilst perhaps not quite as eye-catching as a multilateral agreement, is just as important to the future global trade regime, and that a similarly political position might therefore be taken by both Parliament and the Commission. I would urge you to do so. I would ask you what you think we could do together to promote this type of action. .  Mr President, let me melodramatically apologise in advance. For some reason a nasty virus has descended upon me in the last three quarters of an hour so if I do not make a great deal of sense and if I leave early I hope the reasons are at least forgivable. I would like to summarise where I see this legislation has improved or changed for the better during our deliberations. In a sense the proposal from the Commission had quite a faltering and uncertain start. I was struck as rapporteur by how weak the apparent support from a number of European airlines was for this measure. They expressed a fear, which I certainly shared at the beginning of the discussions, that the instrument being proposed and discussed here could, if mishandled, be a pretext for protectionist behaviour rather than, as is intended, a targeted instrument to deter unfair pricing and excessive use of subsidies elsewhere. The original draft was a little too open-ended. It rather bluntly stated that the European Union would have the power to extend for the first time anti-dumping disciplines from the trade in goods to the trade in services, without a great deal of detail about how that would take place. Our efforts in Parliament during the first reading in particular have been to fill in some of the gaps, to make it a more usable and credible instrument, rather than a sort of blunderbuss threat which might arguably have been too crude to use at all. To that end we are all pleased that the Council has adopted some of the amendments we tabled at first reading, notably, and probably most importantly, those specifying in the legislation itself that the Commission must develop a detailed methodology by which dumped, unfair prices are calculated so that there is a coherent and credible methodology to distinguish dumped prices from normal pricing. I am very pleased the Council has adopted that. I am very grateful to the Commissioner and the Commission for accepting those amendments too. As rapporteur, I would have liked both the Council and the Commission to move a little further towards our position as adopted at first reading. I remain a little concerned that there is no caveat in the legislation to the effect that this instrument should only be used if significant material injury is inflicted upon European Union aircraft carriers. There is a theoretical, potential danger that this instrument will be used to pursue frivolous or insignificant cases. This instrument needs to be used sparingly and I would have preferred to have seen greater adoption of our wording, which targeted it at the really important cases. Having said that, I accepted the wisdom of my wiser colleagues in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, to which I am only a very occasional visitor, who told me in the debate ahead of the second reading that this was a good package to settle with. I happily did so, except on one issue, in a sense on behalf of the Commission, which had understandably expressed concern about the provisions of recital 5, and which suggested that this regulation would be subservient to existing bilateral agreements. I am extremely grateful to the Irish presidency for persuading its colleagues in the Council, according to all the accounts I have received, that the offending wording should be deleted so that a rigid hierarchy between bilateral instruments and EU instruments would not be established to the detriment of the latter. Let me take the remaining seconds to thank the Commission services, which have been enormously helpful in providing a lot of technical detail to a complete ignoramus like me. I should like to thank the Commissioner for proposing this in the first place and accepting the final settlement, the Council and, most importantly, my colleagues in the Committee on Transport. I am, as I said before, an interloper from the trade community and it was certainly an interesting and useful exercise for me to see how trade policy and transport policy have in this case come together in an extremely satisfactory manner. – Mr President, for perplexed observers such as myself, this issue is moving from the bizarre to the surreal. We seem to be faced with one series of proposals and counter-proposals after another, dealing with a transitional regime in which the Commission first proposes tariff rate quotas based on historical periods, reference periods, but then moves to a ‘first-come, first-served’ calculation. Meanwhile, the US first condemns historical reference periods but now advocates its own historical reference periods. It has become extremely difficult to follow. For that reason, amongst many others, I will not comment on the bulk of Mr Dary's report but will try and focus on one issue of principle. Whatever the transitional regime is – whether we go for a tariff rate quota and a licensing system which uses the so-called first-come-first-served system or the historical reference periods, whether it is before or after 1993 – we have to start accepting that this is a transitional regime which will at some point have to be replaced by a WTO-compatible ‘tariff only’ system. We cannot continue year in, year out to avoid our international obligations. The question is why? Mr Dary suggested that if we were to move towards a ‘tariff only’ WTO system we would somehow be surrendering ourselves to chaotic commercial forces. The truth is quite the reverse. The WTO is a set of rules. It is actually an inhibition on chaos because it tries to institute rules which we all abide by. The European Union has an overwhelming strategic interest to ensure that those rules are reinforced and not weakened, because if we weaken the WTO or the rule of law, who will win? It will be the big guys like the United States; it will be might is right; it will be brute commercial force that will win through. So I urge you, let us agree on what the transitional arrangement will be according to Mr Dary's report. But let us not turn our backs, as is suggested in Amendment No 11, on the idea that we must eventually move to a ‘tariff only’ system. Mr President, as was mentioned before, this is indeed a welcome agreement. I much enjoyed working with my colleagues, Mr Gargani, Ms Frassoni, Mr Swoboda and other colleagues in the Council and Parliament, even though it was a painfully protracted process. We arrived at an agreement which is a lot better than many of us expected at the beginning. As has been said by a number of speakers, it is not a perfect agreement. No agreement is perfect. It is a bit of a mixed bag. As Monica Frassoni said, there is a bit of 'blah blah'; there are some slightly vacuous passages, but there are also some incredibly important procedural advances. For a minute or two I should like to focus, if I may, on what happens next. There is no point in reaching this agreement on paper after all these months of protracted talks if we do not transform the advances we agreed upon into a practical effect as soon as possible. I should like to emphasise two aspects where I think we need to look for follow-up as soon as possible. Firstly, paragraph 36 of the agreement says that 'within six months of the date upon which this Agreement comes into force, the European Parliament and the Council, whose task it would be as legislative authority to adopt at the final stage the proposals for simplified acts, need to modify their working methods by introducing, for example, ad hoc structures with the specific task of simplifying legislation.' That is a very important objective and it will be quite tricky to achieve. I urge both Parliament and our colleagues in the Council to make sure that the deadline of achieving the process of simplification is indeed met within the six months specified here. I should also like to refer you to paragraph 30. It deals with something that everyone knows is close to my heart, which is the advance I hope we will make in conducting impact assessments across all three institutions. The text says 'As soon as possible after this Agreement is adopted, the three Institutions will carry out an assessment of their respective experiences and will consider the possibility of establishing a common methodology'. Monica Frassoni's commentary on this agreement is absolutely outstanding in its clarity and fairness except in one respect, where I think she is a little negative about the potential of reaching agreement on impact assessments. My own feeling is that there is simply no way that we will achieve the general principles referred to in the common objectives in the agreement - namely legal certainty, the promotion of simplicity, clarity and consistency in the drafting of laws - if we do not make rapid progress – as called for in paragraph 25 – in establishing a common methodology to have environmental, social and economic impact assessments, not only attached to draft proposals from the Commission, but also in significant amendments tabled by ourselves and by the Council of Ministers. I hope that there will be some sense of urgency over the next few months to achieve real, practical progress on the back of the agreement, and especially on these two important objectives of simplification and impact assessments. –Mr President, I am sure I speak on behalf of other colleagues when I say that this has been one of the most intriguing and perplexing issues I have ever had to follow. For non-specialists like myself it became at times an impenetrable mass of acronyms and technical details, and Mr Glante and Mr Vidal-Quadras Roca at times seemed to be speaking a language that sane, normal human beings could not possibly follow. I never knew, for instance, that something called the  could produce as much heat and fury as it did in the debate in our committee. It is a pity we did not combine that heat in our committee with some power while we were at it. Still, even for those such as myself who were not able to follow every twist and turn, my group is certainly extremely pleased with the outcome and looks forward to supporting the rapporteur in the vote tomorrow. We are particularly pleased that the two approaches represented by the differing sides of the debate in our committee – on the one hand wishing to retain a methodology to distinguish cogeneration from other forms of generation, and on the other hand wishing to maintain an accent on energy saving – have been retained in the famous Annexes two and three, and that some accommodation between those two perspectives has been reached. We are also extremely pleased to support the measures in this directive which protect and promote micro-cogeneration, which we feel to be an essential component in the development of CHP and also of course – I speak on behalf of my group and that of others – we are very keen to try to use tomorrow's vote as a starting point to have a serious though no doubt tough debate with the Council on maintaining and pursuing real rather than just symbolic targets. My final note is one of caution. There are a number of amendments tabled. I would urge colleagues from other groups to refrain from supporting amendments which disturb this very delicately constructed compromise. It would seem, at least to us in my group, to be a shame to jeopardise a compromise which took so long and was frankly so painful in its birth. – Many of the achievements of Barcelona are, of course, welcome, and I join with those who have been recognising the enormous efforts of the Spanish presidency and the European Commission in pushing forward those achievements. We should be no under illusions, however: the method by which these summits are organised is now in crisis. We are all suffering from "summititis", a condition in which wildly inflated expectations puff up before each summit. It must be said that this situation is not helped by some rather hyperbolic rhetoric from certain European Union capitals, for example describing the summit as a "make-or-break event". These expectations are then inevitably dashed when set against the realities of grubby deal-making in the European Council. This harms the credibility of all of us. It really is time to stop the illusion that suggests that European Union competitiveness can somehow be invented at annual spring European Union summits. That is not how to create competitiveness. Creating competitiveness requires a much more prosaic approach. The Lisbon 2002 objective requires constant hard slog and a consistently-applied approach across many policy fields, not an endless diet of symbolic and tokenistic rhetoric. My final point: competitiveness is not just about how you launch initiatives and how many targets you set. It is also about how legislation and regulation is designed and crafted to ensure that it has the impact for which it is intended. Too often, European Union legislation and regulation have effects which run directly counter to the wider aspiration of competitiveness. I was glad to hear this view echoed by Mr Barón Crespo earlier. I welcome Paragraph 19 of the Barcelona summit conclusions and look forward to the new interinstitutional approach, which we hope will install regulatory impact assessments applicable to the work of all European Union institutions. We look forward to that initiative appearing at the Seville summit. – I should like to repeat a question which I asked Mr Moscovici last week in plenary. Perhaps he had too many questions to deal with to be able to answer me then. Perhaps you could answer me in these more intimate surroundings this evening. It is about the role of the European Parliament's in-trade policy, which is the spirit of Mr Newton Dunn's question. Do you think that it will be possible for you, me or anybody in Europe to advocate greater transparency and accountability in the WTO in-trade policy as long as this place has no formal and serious role in scrutinising and vetting trade policy decisions taken by the Council of Ministers and the European Commission? To cite my dear friend, Mr Newton Dunn, perhaps the best way to answer this is: yes or no. – Mr President, I would also like to lend my support to those who have signalled their congratulations to Eryl McNally for doing an excellent job in piloting this through Parliament and of course in conducting negotiations on our behalf with the other institutions. The rapporteur has already covered the main issues of substance, with all of which my group and I entirely agree. I only wish to make two additional wider points at this stage. Firstly, Intelligent Europe is not and should not be the title for this programme but, as the rapporteur herself suggested, should of course be the umbrella title for everything we do in the energy policy environment. As many colleagues know, we are facing a glut of legislation in the energy field today, this week and next week, ranging from combined heat and power through to trans-European networks and to the all-important electricity and gas liberalisation package. Collectively we hope all of those measures together represent a real, intelligent policy. If you will forgive me for using this ghastly phrase, they represent a 'joined-up policy, joined-up government'. To that end the Commissioner's declaration today is very important and much to be welcomed. The second point is about the budget. We warmly support the rapporteur's success in raising the overall budget, but it is worth noting that the EUR 200m, which is of course a great deal of money to you and me, is actually extremely little when compared to the enormous range of tasks which the Intelligent Energy programme is supposed to tackle. EUR 200m could easily be absorbed in any one of the four titles and for that reason alone – and of course this is something we have seen in other areas as well, the trans-European networks for instance – the seed money being put forward by the European Union is massively dwarfed by the tasks to be performed. For that reason, we really do hope that procedures will be as efficient as possible, will avoid duplication, will avoid unnecessary administrative and bureaucratic checks and will give the taxpayers the right bang for their bucks. – Mr President, during the formal and informal debate on this issue over the last few weeks and months, both the Commission and the Council have indicated that it is not the business of the European Parliament to stick its nose into the substance of WTO cases. I broadly agree. The Council and the Commission have also indicated that they think it is none of the European Parliament's business to issue awkward declarations on issues which are basically . Again, under normal circumstances, I would agree. But I would ask the Council and the Commission to tell me what we are supposed to do when we ask both of them in committee several times for justifications of how and why the decision was taken to launch this highly sensitive case and we get no more than a mere technocratic response. What are we supposed to do when we are told the decision was taken over lunch, not even by ministers, but over lunch in some obscure Council working group without any minutes to justify to the public or, indeed, to politicians such as ourselves, why the EU is launching yet another politically sensitive trade dispute? What strikes me is the sheer naivety of both the Commission and the Council in tackling such a highly political issue as if it were nothing more than a technical decision. It is simply inconceivable that the US Administration in Washington would rush headlong into yet another trade dispute with the EU without first ensuring there is a minimum of political backing in Congress. I find it very striking that both the Commission and the Council have failed to do that this time. It has been suggested that those who have signed this hotly worded declaration were behaving irresponsibly. Some Members of this Parliament feel it was irresponsible. It is surely much more irresponsible to launch such a politically and commercially sensitive trade dispute without even a ritual nod towards the normal standards of transparency and political probity. It is not an issue of reforming Article 133. It is simply expecting both the Commission and the Council to conduct trade policy, particularly on politically sensitive issues, in a more transparent and politically intelligent manner. – Mr President, firstly I should like to extend our congratulations to both the Council and the Commission for what seems to be a much improved preparation for this meeting, compared to the methodological confusion that seemed to reign prior to Seattle. We hope it will bear fruit in a couple of weeks' time. As a group we are also very keen that we should learn the lessons from Seattle and not use the launch of the round, or the text for the launch of the round, to somehow foreshadow or preclude the conclusion of the round. That is obviously a lesson well-learnt and we applaud the attempts to keep the document which will be discussed in Doha as crisp and brief as possible. I am not entirely sure whether the principles of brevity and crispness have been fully respected in our own resolution, but this is certainly something we hope you will follow in Doha. There are two issues of absolutely fundamental importance to us as a Liberal group. Firstly, trade and the environment: for us issues such as the interaction between trade and multilateral environmental agreements, eco-labelling, the incorporation of the precautionary principle are not add-ons or luxuries, they are absolutely fundamental to the future credibility of the WTO and, arguably, of globalisation as a political process itself. We feel strongly, therefore, that without those kinds of provisions in the next round of negotiations, it will simply become politically unsellable and unsustainable within Europe. Secondly on agriculture, our own views are that paragraphs 23 to 25, whilst just above adequate, are a little convoluted and mealy-mouthed on agriculture. We prefer the emphasis in paragraph 6 because it draws attention to the fundamental fact, highlighted recently by a study from the Centre for Economic Policy Research, that the greatest instrument to alleviate poverty is the further liberalisation of agriculture. That is a fundamental principle for us which we hope will be fully respected in the next round. – Mr President, I wish to make two relatively brief points. Firstly, a request addressed to the Commission. I spent some hapless years working as a junior official in the TACIS programme some years ago. What I experienced, as I tried to interest everything from local transport authorities in Kishinev through to energy ministries in Uzbekistan was the following: just as in so many other EU policy areas, in TACIS projects we perhaps try to do too much across too many geographical boundaries in too many sectors. I think we are all aware of this danger of the dispersal of EU assistance in far-flung places. Could I make a plea that when this regulation comes into place the many loopholes which still remain in the regulation and which would allow a continued proliferation of small and excessively multiplied projects are closed and that a real, and perhaps in some cases ruthless, concentration of implementing projects is enforced. On the second point I address the rapporteur. It concerns the political issue of the partial suspension of at least the TACIS programme under the budget year 2000. I am glad to hear that the rapporteur has very much moved towards the amendment which the ELDR group tabled. Many of us are instinctively still not convinced that any form of suspension is the right way to respond to present circumstances but nevertheless that seems to be the drift of debate. In those circumstances, I would suggest that we at least make our words on the partial suspension of the TACIS programme under the budget year 2000 entirely compatible with what was decided in Helsinki, mainly and most particularly, that if we are going to save the democracy budget line we should also equally save the budget line which applies to nuclear safety projects. – Mr President, while of course the liberalising thrust of the Lisbon process in the Barcelona Summit is welcomed, I would like to bring to your attention two warnings. Firstly, what we do not do, and what we refrain from doing, is as important as what we are positively trying to do. We should learn in the name of competitiveness to refrain from burdening and cluttering the European Union from excessive regulation or initiatives which are not strictly necessary. In that perspective, I hope the Barcelona Summit will turn its attention to the crucial issue of regulatory impact assessment. Too often, initiatives are launched without the full impact on business, on the environment, but also on consumers and administrations, first being fully examined. Let us all turn our attention to tightening up the hurdles which we need to leap over before we actually launch initiatives. The second warning is this. The Lisbon process – and no doubt this will be picked up at the Barcelona Summit – is now groaning under a whole series of targets. Targets are fine, but they can quickly undermine the credibility of the process if the targets are either not met or are simply met by Member States through a statistical sleight of hand. I would appeal to the Council and the Commission to be wary about implementing and establishing too many targets if those targets are clearly not always going to be met. – Mr President, at a time when the candidate countries in Central and Eastern Europe have been subject to quite a great deal of criticism from EU Heads of Governments, and from European Commissioners and others, for making their views on the Iraq crisis known, the ELDR Group strongly welcomes the statement from the European Commission that the central priority must and will remain enlargement. It is in our view absurd that so many criticisms have been made of candidate countries; they have been reprimanded in a condescending manner when the divisions that have opened up within the European Union in the current crisis are almost entirely of the making of the existing Member States. It is of course true that the European Union is not a supermarket, but equally it is not a temple in which people who speak a little too loudly are asked to remain quiet. The reasons why divisions have opened up are largely to do with insistence by existing Member States on a slavish allegiance to Washington, or an equally stubborn hostility to everything that emanates from the United States. The candidate countries are innocent bystanders in that debate and should not be penalised for having being pressured into making their views known. That is why we strongly welcome your emphasis, President Prodi, on making sure that these current problems do not in any way derail or slow down the enlargement process and hope that you will do everything possible to see the enlargement process through to its logical conclusion next year. The second point I would like to make is on the issue of governance. This document is a useful step forward in the improvement of EU governance and to that extent we welcome it warmly. It is crucial that governance is improved at an institutional level. There is no point in one institution or another raising its game if the other institutions do not reciprocate. That is why the ELDR Group is especially keen that the somewhat stalled talks in the interinstitutional working group, which is looking at the way in which we all collectively improve our law-making capacity, should conclude as quickly as possible. Deadlines have slipped; the group should have concluded its work at the end of last year and the new deadline for the spring summit also now seems unrealistic. It is essential that we all pull our weight in the three institutions concerned to make this institutional approach a reality. Let me give you an example. You cite at length in your document the very laudable attempts in the European Commission to apply impact assessments of a number of key legislative proposals. I think you are proposing to do that on 31 proposals in 2004. There would be no point in those impact assessments if MEPs in the European Parliament or Ministers in the Council of Ministers were then to ignore your assessment and simply revise the legislation without any regard for the impact. That is why many of us in the interinstitutional working group have been urging you in the European Commission to think about how you could extrapolate your excellent work in the impact assessment field and urge all institutions to sign up to similar practices. We would certainly urge you to redouble those efforts in the weeks ahead. – Mr President, the curious thing about the EU position on GATS is that it has become a very defensive position. It is not defensive to anyone outside Europe, but within an internal debate in which the Commission, and perhaps the EU generally, the position is defensive vis-à-vis campaign groups within the European Union which have decided, for some good reasons but also a lot of bad reasons, to criticise both the GATS agreement and the EU stance. My group would like to focus on that point. If, in the future, we want to prevent European Union trade policy being shaped - and sometimes arbitrarily shaped - by both the press and specific campaign groups, we must reassert parliamentary prerogatives in this field to open up the debate to proper, accountable public scrutiny. That is why we urge colleagues in other groups not only to support greater transparency in the way in which these negotiations are conducted, but also, as Mrs McNally has already said, to give strong support to filling the current vacuum in the Convention and making sure that the European Parliament more generally gains the right of assent over all future GATS and WTO agreements. . The Liberal Democrat delegation did not vote with the rest of the ELDR Group on the Schmidt report. We voted against Amendments Nos 1 to 13 and the proposal, as we wished the proposal in its current form to be withdrawn. Our reason for doing so is that we believe VAT on postal services, especially in respect of securing a universal service for packages below two kilogrammes, is a matter best left to national governments under the principle of subsidiarity. However, we remain open to considering future proposals aimed at ensuring greater competition. – Mr President, I have two short minutes in which to make four points. Firstly I would like to join in the warm congratulations to Commissioner Lamy and indeed his distinguished predecessor Sir Leon, now Lord, Brittan. I hope the brevity of my congratulations does not diminish the warmth of them. Secondly, a point addressed to the Council. The Council's attitude towards parliamentary assent to a deal like this is linked to the Council's parallel attitude towards the Commission's proposal for its extension of its own powers over areas such as intellectual property and services in Article 133 more generally. I have to confess I get the impression that there is a certain degree of institutional territoriality here, particularly in the large Member States, where the trade and industry ministries are very reluctant to see the Commission continue to extend its scope in those new areas in WTO trade negotiations and, consistent with that, also reluctant to see the European Parliament increase its influence. This simply cannot carry on. It is such a weird anachronism that a policy that was communautarised back in the 1950s is as unaccountable and non-transparent as it is. I would plead for the internal territorial interests of Member States to be overcome on this particular point. Thirdly, technical assistance. It is great that we are going to coordinate with the Americans, but look at the numbers: EUR 25 million is absolutely nothing in comparison to the challenge we face! We have a total budget for China of EUR 80 million. Even if we allocate all of that to China-WTO accession it would still not be enough. We – the Commission, Council and Parliament – have to be a lot more ambitious in actually allocating much more money towards this enormous task. Finally, human rights. I hope the fact that we have signed up to this bilateral deal with the Chinese does not leave them thinking that we are going to be any more forgiving on human rights. It is all the more important that all three institutions should now be particularly robust about the way the Chinese behave in the so-called dialogue on human rights. Let us not give them the impression that a deal on the WTO means that we are going to be weak on human rights – it should be the reverse. We should be all the more robust. .  Mr President, I am reminded on occasions like this how very specialised these debates must appear to the rest of Parliament given that we are so small in number. Seeing so many friendly and familiar faces here this evening, however, I am also reminded that we perhaps make up in sheer intelligence and talent for the lack of numbers that we are able to muster this evening, merry gang of telecoms specialists that we are. On a more serious note, I would like to thank many colleagues here this evening for their support and cooperation in producing this report, which really was a collective effort. I know that all parliamentary reports are collective efforts, but this one very much represented a collective effort by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy as a whole, including the shadow spokespeople. This was reflected in the unanimous vote in our committee. It is not an exaggeration to say that this report represents a welcome new development in the way in which Parliament is working, in the way in which we are increasingly not only promulgating and amending legislation, but also developing a highly welcome preoccupation about how that legislation is subsequently implemented. It would be irresponsible for us as legislators not to pay due attention to what happens to our worthy texts once they are adopted as legislative texts. This is a model example of not only cooperation across parties, but also cooperation between institutions in ensuring implementation is properly and fully pursued. I would like to isolate four points which are of particular significance. First, in urging the Commission to take action against those Member States that have not yet implemented the telecoms legislation in good time, and welcoming any action already taken, it is important to remember that we stress in paragraph 3 of this report that we also believe the Commission should continually look at innovative ways of not only forcing implementation on those reluctant Member States, but also encouraging implementation by benchmarking and comparative analyses. The Commission can produce these in order to urge the laggards to take a good example from those Member States who are perhaps more advanced. Second, our comments in this report on the regulatory structure and the European Regulatory Group are important. In paragraph 22, we put it on record that we feel that the existence of the European Regulators Group – the ERG – and the Independent Regulators Group – the IRG – is increasingly illogical because there is so much overlap between the two. Whilst many of us here understand that the Commission cannot take a formal position on this, it is worth stressing this evening that we feel there is absolutely no logical reason why these two bodies should coexist as is currently the case. A merger between the ERG and the IRG is desirable. I would like to see more proactive input from the Commission as regards the accession countries, and the degree to which they are abiding not only by the old framework but also looking to adopt the new framework. In our discussions with the Commission on this report, the Commission explained that it would be too onerous and complicated to meet an initial demand made by myself and others for specific reports on the implementation of telecoms law in the accession countries. In the end we urged the Commission to collate more information on the state of play in the accession countries. However, it is important that it should be taken seriously. If one looks at the monitoring reports issued recently by the Commission, there are only about two or three paragraphs on the telecoms sector in many of these countries. That really is not good enough. As they approach their own date of entry into the European Union, it is essential that we monitor that situation more closely than perhaps has been the case hitherto. Finally, I would like to draw special attention to the importance of paragraph 9 in our report, which stresses once again that notwithstanding the emphasis in all the regulatory activity in recent years on increasing access-based competition, our long-term goal has to remain facilities-based competition. That is sometimes obscured by all the battles we have about local loop unbundling, bit stream access and so on. At the end of the day, what we want for the benefit of European consumers, let alone European telecoms operators, is sustainable, robust, facilities-based competition. It is to that end that I hope this implementation report has made some contribution. Mr President, on behalf of the ELDR Group I would like to join others in expressing our solidarity, sympathy and condolences for the Italian  and other victims of the attack in Iraq last week and, of course, the victims of the horrific attacks on the synagogues in Istanbul. I would like to depart from the political pyrotechnics of some of the previous interventions and focus on the subject at hand today – the annual legislative programme. I would first like to stress that the ELDR Group defends the right of the Commission President to express himself personally on political issues concerning the future of the European Union. I must however say that, as a Liberal who treasures the diversity and pluralism of public opinion, I have some personal doubts about the wisdom of advocating two opposing blocks in the European debate either here or, more generally, in the Member States. Turning to the annual programme, other colleagues will speak on the Eurostat issue later. The ELDR Group has consistently welcomed the progress made over the last few years in the way in which the Commission has presented this important document. Only a few years ago it was nothing more than an arbitrary shopping list of legislative and non-legislative proposals. There has been an attempt, both this year and in previous years, to include some strategic thinking and we welcome some of the recent innovations, such as the move towards more rigorous impact assessment procedures. However, as President Prodi himself rightly indicated, there is still much room for improvement, and we would like to highlight three areas in which we consider that the document presented to us today is still seriously lacking. Firstly, the selection of the three strategic priorities – namely enlargement, stability and growth – is fine. However, those priorities are so open-ended it is almost impossible to imagine anyone disagreeing with them. It is equally impossible to imagine any legislative or non-legislative proposal that would not fall under those three strategic priorities. In other words there seems to be no real choice about what the European Commission is proposing this year, and no choice about what the strategic priorities of the European Union should be. On the contrary, there is a risk of a very open-ended approach towards EU business because of the very open-ended nature of the three priorities themselves. Secondly, there is no discernible link between those three vague priorities and the lengthy annexes containing legislative and non-legislative proposals. We understand that one of the annexes – both of which include around fifty legislative proposals – is supposed to relate to the priorities, while the other is not. Those of you who have examined the lists will have seen that they are interchangeable. They are not clearly organised according to the priorities, but seem to have been organised artificially into two categories. In other words, the priorities themselves do not seem to have guided the selection of legislative and non-legislative proposals before us today, which again gives a somewhat artificial tenor to the selection of the proposals presented to us. Thirdly, as both the President of the Commission and the President-in-Office of the Council have mentioned, this summer we all signed an interinstitutional agreement explicitly designed to ensure better law-making in the European Union. The Commission explicitly committed itself, in that interinstitutional agreement, to explain fully today when it presents its annual legislative programme, firstly the choice of legislative instrument for each proposal, and secondly the choice of legal base. There are some indications on the legal bases, in these lengthy, somewhat impenetrable annexes, but no reference whatsoever to the choice of legislative instrument. It cannot be that, a few months after the signing of an interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, the Commission fails, at the first hurdle, to honour the promises made in that agreement. It bodes extremely ill for the improvement of law-making for that to be the case. This is a terrifically important moment in the political and legislative cycle in the European Union. It is the moment when the European Commission exercises its supreme privilege and prerogative – namely the monopoly right of initiative. That right of initiative is only ever defensible if exercised in a fully accountable, transparent manner in which motives are fully explained and political accountability is fully safeguarded. On the basis of what we have seen today, we do not believe that to be the case. There is still very significant room for improvement. – Mr President, there are already some doubts about the viability of the nuclear industry in a liberalised energy market, as witnessed by the problems of British Energy in the United Kingdom. I would like to seek assurances from you today, Commissioner, that in no shape or form can this package be used as a bail-out for the nuclear industry in a way which would prejudice other energy sources and give unfair preference to the nuclear industry in the European energy single market. The coverage of the very considerable costs of waste disposal, for instance, should not simply be lifted from the accounting books of companies producing nuclear energy. In your statement you said you would now make sure that under no circumstances could decommissioning funds be redirected as cross-subsidies for the commercial operations of nuclear companies. Could you confirm that there will be no exceptions whatsoever to that and that under no circumstances can decommissioning funds be used for commercial purposes? – Mr President, it is high time that we resolved this complex and long-standing issue once and for all. As we all know, there are many competing claims – the claims of ACP banana producers, Community banana producers, EU businesses which have been hit hard by US sanctions, the EU's role and standing in the WTO and, of course, the rights and interests of European banana consumers. It will not be possible to satisfy fully all these claims and therefore we have to accept a compromise. The Commission's proposal is a compromise between those who demand an immediate move to a tariff only system and those who wish to ignore the WTO rulings and stick with the flawed regime as it is. That is why the majority of the ELDR Group supports the Commission's proposal to continue a tariff-rate quota system for a transitional period before moving to a definitive tariff only system. The Dary report, on the other hand, is premised on the somewhat unrealistic notion that we can ignore rulings from the WTO altogether. It gives complete priority to the concerns of EU banana producers over the equally legitimate concerns of innocent EU businesses in other sectors suffering from arbitrary US sanctions. Most strange of all, it risks complicating matters so much further that the Commission, as stated in its proposal of November last year, will be obliged to move directly to a tariff only system. This would be exactly the opposite of the objectives of those who support this report. I have also heard that during the vote, which will take place either today or tomorrow, some may advocate referral back to committee. This would be an undignified act of foot-dragging which would do nothing to address the long-term issues at stake. We need stability for European and ACP banana producers and EU consumers. That can be done by rejecting this report and supporting the Commission's compromise proposal. – Mr President, I would also like to join in the congratulations to Mr Désir, the rapporteur. This report strikes us as an excellent piece of forward-thinking, a blueprint for the WTO of tomorrow. It comprehensively rejects those who claim that the WTO is beyond redemption; that it cannot be reformed; that it is inherently biased against the poor or the dispossessed; and that it is just an agent for the rule of the jungle, rather than the rule of law. It also rejects the contrary view: the idea that free trade should prevail at all costs; that the WTO should be an agent for the dismantling of outstanding trade barriers, and should do so to the exclusion of all other political and public policy considerations. Instead, it represents almost a synthesis of those two views, because it shows how and when and why the WTO should, and must, be reformed. It shows how the WTO must become more transparent and legitimate. I should add that all the emphasis that we, as Europeans, place on the need for increased legitimacy and transparency in the WTO will come to nothing if we do not reform the way in which we conduct our own trade policy in the European Union. I was delighted to hear the presidency today say that it has supported in the past, and will support in the future, Parliament's demands for more transparent and legitimate trade policy-making in the European Council and the European Union. The report also – and this is perhaps its greatest contribution to the debate – shows the way in which the WTO has to be placed increasingly in a context of other public policy priorities and other multilateral organisations and agreements. It cannot rely on a role as on the international scene. Instead it should learn to interact with other priorities and other multilateral agreements. Our role is, therefore, to flank the WTO with other supporting agreements in other fields, notably the environmental field. – Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, the greatest legacy which your Commission could pass on to the European Union would be to help resettle and redistribute the increasingly jumbled and confused powers and competences of the Commission, and perhaps of the Union itself. You have made a bold start by rightly emphasising the need to focus on so-called "core tasks". That, as you have said yourself today, means that you must also identify tasks, policies and programmes which are peripheral or irrelevant to the Commission's main vocation. Many existing European Union policies and programmes may simply have passed their sell-by date, or have been proved unwieldy or ineffective when administered at European level. The challenge now is to have the courage to devolve as many non-core tasks as possible back to lower levels of national, regional and local government. If we are to succeed in persuading a sceptical European public of the merits of further European integration, we must be able to demonstrate that we are as active in the devolution of unwarranted EU powers as we are in the evolution of new EU powers. We must not allow the critics of European integration to claim, as they presently do with some justification as we have just heard from Mr Bonde, that the increase in EU responsibilities is a one-way street only. It must be shown to be a two-way process in which existing EU policies and programmes, which are not clearly justified on the grounds of subsidiarity and proportionality, are devolved and repealed. If you are able to match these aspirations with actions in the years ahead, you will be making an unprecedented contribution to the future of the European Union as a whole and, as we have heard today, you will enjoy widespread support in this European Parliament. . The current practice of moving Parliament between Brussels and Strasbourg implies high costs for the European taxpayer, and reduces the effectiveness of parliamentary work. It undermines Parliament's credibility and political impact. The solution to this problem would be to concentrate Parliament's work at only one place. We call upon the Member States to consider a change of the Treaty, allowing the European Parliament to decide upon its own seat. In order to make this point we have voted for all amendments that aim to reduce the amount of time spent in Strasbourg and increase that in Brussels. – I would like to take up the subject just touched upon by the previous speaker, namely the transatlantic aspects of telecoms liberalisation and particularly paragraph 6 and 7 of the draft resolution, which refers to the unfortunate initiative by Senator Hollings to restrict the transfer of licences to telecoms companies which are more than 25% state-owned. This seems an ironic lurch towards a protectionist position at the very time when here in Europe and in this Parliament we are about to embark upon a debate on the latest raft of measures which, in my view, would make the European Union telecoms market the most liberalised and the most open market in the world going way beyond many if not all of the commitments into which we entered in GATT and the WTO. This is politically if not technically an unbalanced situation which merits the attention of this House. Whilst I have some philosophical sympathy with Senator Hollings and his colleagues who consider that state-owned companies have some hidden and sometimes explicit advantages over their privately-owned competitors, the way in which Congress in the United States is trying to address this issue is contrary to both the spirit and the letter of US multilateral commitments. I would ask fellow Members, when considering the latest raft of telecoms measures in the weeks to come, not to allow this to go unnoticed or for that matter unchallenged. – Mr President, the ELDR Group has always been quite critical in the past of the somewhat incoherent and arbitrary nature of previous annual programmes. We have always looked for two things in this programme: firstly, a clear idea of the political direction reflected in the strategic choices taken by the European Commission, and secondly, a political debate between the institutions themselves. There has certainly been some progress on those two counts this year, compared to previous years. We wish to thank the Commission for keeping to the format and timetable of the new arrangements and certainly thank the college for being present in such great numbers here today. However, as President Prodi himself said, there is still some room for improvement. The ELDR Group would like to highlight three areas where we feel there should be further improvement. The European Commission aspires to be an EU government of sorts. Good governments make strategic choices. They set political priorities. That importantly means they explain what they are not going to do as well as what they are going to do. The concern we have is that, even in this improved document, the three priorities are so broad and open-ended that they do not really represent any meaningful political choice. This is reflected in the annexes. The annex covering the actions undertaken under the three priorities run to around 40 pages. More worryingly, the annex covering the issues which fall outside the priorities runs to 50 pages. In other words, we are faced with the prospect that the majority of the initiatives undertaken on the basis of this annual programme next year will actually fall outside the political orientation set in the annual programme altogether. That is simply not the way to proceed. Once again this resorts to a sort of laundry list approach to legislative initiative and we as a group would like to see a much greater display of choice and political orientation as regards what the European Commission proposes to do from one year to the next. The second point is the level of detail provided for each proposed legislative action. This has certainly improved compared with previous years but that was not difficult. It is still not sufficient and I would like to draw the Commission's attention to the fact that in the Convention there are proposals being floated to involve national parliaments in this debate in future. This annex is almost incomprehensible to MEPs so it would be utterly incomprehensible to MPs in national parliaments. It needs to be explained in clear, cogent, simple prose so that it is comprehensible to people living in the world that exists outside the institutions. Finally, the third point is our strong support for the Commission's stated intention of applying impact assessments to a number of pilot initiatives. We feel impact assessments are absolutely indispensable to improve the quality of European legislation but we would like to take it a step further in two important respects. Firstly, we do not feel that in the long run the Commission can be judge and jury on its own impact assessments – assessing its own draft proposals. We feel this should be done independently. Secondly, there is little point in the Commission conducting its impact assessments if parliamentary and Council amendments then escape impact assessments altogether. Therefore we would like to see an interinstitutional approach which applies impact assessments at all points of the legislative cycle. – It is indeed welcome of course that the interinstitutional trauma of the last few months is now drawing to a close and good that normal business is about to resume. But, as has been said before by many speakers, we must understand the way in which the interinstitutional crisis of the last few months has altered in some fundamental way the relationship between our two institutions. It is fair to say that in the past there was a traditional view that the European Parliament and the European Commission should operate in an almost permanent state of collusion to take on the vested interests of Member States and so promote European integration. This is now an outdated view which has been bypassed by recent events. From now on we should perhaps both accept and welcome a permanent creative tension between our two institutions – that, after all, is the heart of a mature parliamentary democracy. This requires changes not only in the European Commission with which we are all familiar, but also changes in the European Parliament itself. Indeed, I hope that Parliament will take this opportunity to reform our own outdated procedures and practices including the financial provisions for MEPs. Unless we, as parliamentarians, examine ourselves with the same forensic attention with which we examine other institutions we will find it difficult to reverse the shocking voter apathy which was seen in so many parts of Europe in the elections in June. Indeed, it is not an exaggeration to say that voter indifference remains the greatest long-term threat to the European Union as a whole and perhaps to this Parliament in particular. Thus our overwhelming priority should be to re-engage the disenchanted voter: a reformed European Commission, a reformed European Parliament, interacting in a robust but mature manner, is the only way in which we have any real hope of doing so. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Commission on its synthesis report and on keeping up the pressure on the Council and this House to deliver the promises made in the Lisbon process. However, I would like to address one specific issue where the Commission and indeed all of us are rather weak: that is the issue of regulatory burdens. We need to be a little better informed about the kind of regulatory burdens which we might be creating wittingly or, more importantly, unwittingly in the legislation that we pass. I see in the Commission's synthesis report no more than four or five paragraphs on this very important issue. Regulatory burdens and the reduction of regulatory burdens is a subject which is thick with rhetoric and clichés, but rather thin on action and practicality. It means that as legislators in the European Parliament we are often legislating blind. We often deal with proposals that come from the European Commission which do not have proper impact assessments attached to them. We then table amendments when we do not know what the effect of those amendments will be. That is clearly an inappropriate way in which to legislate and not a particularly effective way to pursue the goal of competitiveness. Therefore, I urge the Commission to reflect on this quite seriously and not dismiss it as just an add-on to the Lisbon process but place it at the centre of its reflections and perhaps think of new institutional ways of creating an agency specialised in these matters. Commission proposals ought perhaps to be subject to proper impact assessments and, similarly, MEP amendments, so that we actually know what we are doing when we legislate in pursuit of this overall aim of competitiveness. Mr President, colleagues, it is always a pleasure to be debating with each other in such cosy circumstances late at night. I certainly did not know when I took on the rapporteurship of something as obscure as local loop unbundling that it would be quite so controversial and so complicated as it has proved nor that our discussions would culminate in such nocturnal circumstances. The local loop unbundling regulation is an important piece of legislation which completes unfinished business from the past but also represents an important step forward into the future. It completes unfinished business in the past because it is enforcing competition in the final segment of the telecommunications world which until now had escaped earlier liberalising European measures. At the same time, by ensuring that access to the local loop – the last mile of so-called copper wire – is now open to all new market entrants and is not the exclusive province of the so-called incumbent operators, the regulation will act as a significant boost for increased choice of non-voice services for consumers. It should lower prices for consumers and act as a boost to the take-up of new fancy broadband services and so point Europe very firmly in a dynamic, forward-looking direction. As such, it will help fulfil the promise made in Lisbon in March of this year when a number of ambitious targets were set, which, it is said, will help ensure that the gap that has opened between the European Union and the United States in the information economy is closed as soon as possible. The procedure we had to follow, in order to act as quickly as possible upon the conclusions of the Lisbon Summit and the proposal of the Commission in July, has been unusual. I am told that if we vote on the report tomorrow and adopt our report as voted in the committee it will be the fastest piece of legislation of this type ever processed by the European Union institutions. This has only been possible because of an unprecedented degree of cooperation. Firstly, cooperation with the Commission – and I would like to thank Commissioner Liikanen and all his extremely good officials who have been working on this for their assiduous help throughout the process. They really have provided us all with an invaluable service. I would also like to thank the Council for their cooperation, firstly driven by the mandate in the conclusions in the Lisbon summit but also by a particularly effective series of French Presidency initiatives in the Council of Ministers and last and by no means least I would like to express thanks for cooperation within this House. I have had the privilege and the benefit of working with a number of colleagues of all groups who have pulled together in the committee to produce the report which we will be voting on tomorrow. I would like to thank all of them for the great cooperation which they have extended to me. It has not been easy: firstly, because the procedure is difficult, it is new. Those of us who have worked on it all agree that if this sets a precedent for the future, we could perhaps consider promulgating some rules which will facilitate this kind of process in the future but also some rules on substance. This is a measure which is clearly going to prove to be painful to some of the incumbent operators involved and I understand that a number of colleagues have been in discussions with incumbent operators and I am very grateful to them for conveying their concerns to me and also working with me to find an appropriate way forward. We can be proud of the work that we have completed and that I hope we will complete by our vote tomorrow. It shows that, even in difficult and controversial areas of policy such as this, this House is able to act decisively and clearly when it needs to and for that I would once again like to extend my thanks to all concerned. – I would also like to join in congratulating the rapporteur on an excellent job well done and make two points which have been mentioned by others before. Firstly, the value of strong regulatory authorities. It is quite clear from the experience in the fifteen still separate markets that strong regulatory bodies help market access for smaller players, protect the interests of consumers and force the pace of large monopoly-providers which might otherwise feel free to take a more leisurely pace. Secondly, the value of a timetable. It was a pity that the Lisbon conclusions did not call for a timetable. Experience in other areas such as telecom shows that Member States respond better to this incentive and I hope that the Commission will elaborate a specific timetable for liberalization in the months to come. – Mr President, in this debate it is perhaps worth citing once again what the Doha Declaration actually says. I quote: 'The TRIPS agreement does not and should not prevent Members from taking measures to protect public health', and it: 'can and should be interpreted and implemented in a manner supportive of WTO members' rights, to protect human health and, in particular, to promote access to medicines for all'. It is worth bearing in mind those words and repeating them for the record, particularly for the consumption of US observers. I doubt they are listening right now, but perhaps we can send them a copy of the Minutes of this stimulating discussion later on. The US position is not just contrary to the spirit of the Doha Declaration: it directly contravenes the letter of the Doha Declaration. As such, it is a slap in the face for all developing countries which invested so much hope in the Doha Declaration and in the objectives of the Doha development round. It represents a spectacular assertion of narrow and misguided commercial interests over the greater prize of a development round itself. It is worth making that clear because if you then consider the commercial interests at stake, it becomes even more incomprehensible why the US is single-handedly blocking agreement in this area. I would now like to quote a press release from the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations. It states that: 'over 95% of all medicines on the WHO drugs essential list are off-patent, and studies show that there are relatively few patents on AIDS drugs in Africa'. In other words, that statistic alone suggests there is very little commercial risk for either the European pharmaceuticals industry, or the US industry itself. It is all the more frustrating to watch these deadlines being missed – even applying the logic of their own commercial self-interest – as a particular sector in the US blocks progress in this field. My group strongly supports the initiatives taken by Commissioner Lamy and the European Commission. We sympathise with his position and ask why it is that the US pharmaceuticals industry seems to have been able to marshal US government support in backing its irrational reaction to the EU proposal. Unilateralism with a reason is just about comprehensible. Unilateralism without any logic whatsoever is unforgivable. – On behalf of the Liberal Group, I would also like to extend our thanks and congratulations to the Council and Commission, especially to Commissioner Lamy. In our view, without the effective work of the Commissioner and the Council, in cooperation with Parliament, the new round would never have been proposed, let alone launched, and for that we are grateful. It seems to us that the summit at Doha represented the coming together of two themes or two trends within the WTO. The first theme is the first concerted attempt to accommodate the needs and legitimate complaints of developing countries. We have referred already to the TRIPS Agreement, the text on implementation, US movement on anti-dumping, a chink of light in the European position on agriculture – these to us are very significant developments. The second theme or trend is that the talks extended well beyond traditional market access preoccupations and moved towards the development of new rules, competition, investment and, above all, the environment. That again seems to us to be a very welcome development and we are very pleased to see that a balance seems to have been struck – a sensible and workable balance between the needs of developing countries and the need to develop new rules within the World Trade Organisation. Some have suggested – I think my Green friends and other critics of the WTO – that somehow these two things are incompatible with each other and that developing new rules on the WTO is anathema to the interests of the developing countries. We found it particularly bizarre that Green Members of this House and Green campaigners rejected talks on the environment within the WTO, in the name of the developing countries. To us, there is no trade-off between sustainable multilateral environmental disciplines and multilateral attempts at poverty alleviation. Now is the time for delivery. Some of the news over the last few days is a little mixed, particularly from the United States, over the concessions which were extracted from the Administration in the fast-track debate and the debate on trade and steel in Washington. We must keep the pressure up to make sure that the momentum that was established in Doha is maintained in the years ahead and we will certainly strive to do so. – Mr President, I have three points. Firstly, this paper is slightly more modest than its title suggests. When you first titillated us with the prospect of presenting this White Paper over a year ago, we were all very excited at the idea of having some great constitutional blueprint. In fact, you have very wisely produced a paper on good administration rather than a blueprint on governance or constitutional government as a whole, and that pragmatic and focused approach has much to commend it. Secondly, I very much welcome your announcement today that you wish to establish an interinstitutional working party. I have always felt it was a mistake to try to treat governance as if it were a piece of legislation which was first presented by the Commission and then batted between the institutions. This is not normal legislation, but an intensely political debate that requires an intensely political and cooperative approach between the institutions. My final point is one that you touch upon quite politely in the White Paper. I will be less polite: we can do as much as we like at European level – in Strasbourg and Brussels – to improve administration and governance and make our decisions more comprehensible, legitimate and understandable. However, as long as national political institutions and national political cultures remain frozen in the 19th-century mould and pretend that either the EU does not exist or is some far-off spaceship, we will never make great advances in this honourable enterprise of improving governance. Governance can only be built brick by brick from the bottom, from the ground floor, from our nations and regions. That is where we should all start. – Mr President, the announcement last week was bad enough. The comments from some US officials, including Mr Aldonas, that somehow protectionism is warranted to correct wider macroeconomic factors is potentially even worse. It displays a dangerous and economically illiterate philosophy that needs to be strongly rebuffed. The question is: how do we rebuff it? Firstly, we need to ensure that we consolidate our friendships with those allies with whom we wish to act together against American unilateralism. And if there is one tactical concern my group has about brandishing safeguard measures against those steel exports that might be diverted from the US to Europe, it is that it might actually alienate countries such as Russia, India and Brazil, with whom we have to act together in the WTO and the OECD to take on this American move. Therefore, we would ask the Commission and, of course, the Council, as a matter of urgency to try and negotiate bilateral voluntary export restraint agreements with these countries, so as to avoid the diversion from steel going to America to Europe happening in the first place. The obvious danger if we do not achieve this is that we end up having spats with precisely the people we should be teaming up with against this American behaviour. The second point is this: let us not be squeamish; this decision was taken for domestic political reasons. It will only be reversed or limited if domestic political pressures dictate that should be the case. In order to do that, we need to brandish big sticks which are felt on the domestic US political scene. And conveniently enough, if inelegantly, we do have such a big stick, in the form of the measures we can take within the context of the foreign sales cooperation dispute. Of course, we do not wish to mix these things formally; but let us not be naive. The FSC dispute provides us with the best means by which to inflict the domestic pressure which is absolutely necessary in order to get some change in the American attitude and to reassert the international rule of law, rather than the rule of the law of George Bush's economic jungle. – Mr President, the European Union has many critics but few voices of protest are heard when the institution takes action to protect our air, our rivers, our seas and our land. Because people everywhere recognise that pollution knows no national boundaries and can only be tackled effectively by countries working together. To its great credit Europe has taken a lead in introducing legislation to protect the environment. But laws which are not enforced equally by all 15 Member States will be cynically ignored by those who seek financial gain at any cost and will generate a sense of injustice and eventually hostility in all those who play by the rules. None of us, of course, have any reason to feel superior. No country has a perfect record when it comes to enforcing environmental legislation. This report takes us a positive step forward and shows Parliament at its best as a defender of the public interest. It emphasises our commitment to protecting our environment and applying equal procedures in each Member State. It greatly strengthens the Commission’s well-meaning but frankly insubstantial recommendations for inspection procedures which could not guarantee that improvements will actually take place and it provides for a detailed programme of action to make sure that existing laws are properly enforced within a realistic but tight timetable. There are one or two sections in this report, as drafted, which I believe would benefit from some very minor amendments to tighten them up. I have tabled a couple and one of the delights about making a maiden speech in this House is that one has the feeling that those words might actually be studied for their merits rather than simply judged on their party political background. The real substance of this report and my concern is as raised by Mrs Jackson, that the Commission may not give its support to these proposals. I congratulate Mrs Jackson on the work she has undertaken. I believe strongly that this report should be given Parliament’s wholehearted support and a message should be sent to both the Commission and the Council that we are determined that these essential measures should not be diluted or weakened in any way. – Mr President, putting the principles of sustainability into practice is a difficult task and I think the words of the President-in-Office of the Council are encouraging, but can I ask him to come back to the question I asked? Will the documents that will be produced in time for the Gothenburg Council have clear and specific indicators within them by which the future performance of the presidency and indeed of the European Union can be judged, together with a clear and specific timetable for the delivery of certain goals, or are we going to see another set of waffle words which meet the goals of good intentions but cannot actually be measured against practical delivery? We have a Swedish environment commissioner: we now have a Swedish Presidency which has a firm commitment to the environment. We expect great things of you which is why we ask a lot. Mr President, the Commissioner said that he felt cheated by the Government of Cyprus. He was too polite. His good faith has been betrayed, as has that of our rapporteur, Mr Poos. Under international law, the entire island of Cyprus will join the European Union on 1 May, regardless of the result of the referendum, and Turkish Cypriots will become EU citizens. However, if the Greek Cypriots reject the Annan Plan, Turkish Cypriots will be EU citizens who are denied recognition and representation and who are being kept impoverished by economic sanctions applied by the EU. Turkish Cypriots are trapped in a pincer: they are threatened on the one hand by Turkish settlers and on the other by the economic strength of the Greek Cypriots. They have been poorly led for years. However, the tide has now turned and if they vote 'yes' in Saturday's referendum, they will have done everything that we and the UN have asked of them. Under such circumstances it would be completely unacceptable for economic sanctions to be maintained. We cannot persecute our own citizens. The presidency and the Commission, with the UN, must take steps to lift their burden through the means of transport and trade, and must do so without delay. In practice that answer was very satisfactory. I thank the Commissioner. – Madam President, has it been brought to your attention that the Members' register of interests was last week published on an Internet site, www.mpt2001.co.uk? This was not the result of Parliament putting into practice the principles of transparency and openness, but follows the copying of the records by a team in Parliament working for a British television comedian. Now that the records have been put into the public domain, will you advise all concerned not to allow Parliament to continue looking secretive and foolish, but to take speedy action to bring us into the twenty-first century and get the information published on our own website and made permanently available to European citizens? – I wish to put two questions to the Commissioner. Parliament has passed a resolution calling for the polluter pays principle to be applied in this instance and for both the shipowners and the owners of the cargo to be liable. The question for the Commissioner is really whether these principles can actually be applied and whether we will get any money by way of compensation from these people. The second point relates to the future and the publication of the Commission’s White Paper on environmental liability which is designed to ensure that the polluter pays principle applies in future and to ensure that we are better able to enforce European environmental legislation properly. It is recognised in that White Paper that liability is only effective where the polluter can be identified, where the damage can be quantified and where a clear causal connection can be made between the two. The  incident could not illustrate the point more clearly because it sums up exactly what that White Paper is seeking to address. This question really would therefore seem to be a perfect measure of how to deal with problems of this kind in future. The proposed directive provides for strict liability for damage caused by EU-regulated dangerous activities and my concern, and perhaps the Commissioner can deal with this, is whether or not the environmental liability paper will be able to deal with problems of the type of  in future. Will it really address the concern or will, in practice, in the case of maritime accidents involving ships on the high seas, the polluter once again escape from having to pay for the damage they cause. –Mr President, like other Members here today, I have been lobbied extensively about this directive and I have been impressed by the degree of support – or at least the support in principle – for it. Environmentalists regard it as a holy grail, the means by which the polluter pays principle can be put into concrete form. Industry representatives have told me that they too agree with the principle and the insurance industry has said that it can make it work, so long as it is introduced gradually and they have time to cost it properly. So why does this House, and my group too, find itself so very divided over an issue about which everyone seems to agree? It seems that the principle is fine so long as it is never turned into practice. In this instance I regard myself as a pragmatist, I want to ensure that the legislation is workable and does not impose crippling burdens on industry or on agricultural producers. That is one reason why I oppose the introduction of joint and several liability. If there is a danger to the environment, then someone has to pay and when the polluters can be clearly identified, then they should be first in line. All organisations should, above all, be very conscious of the need to take measures to prevent damage in the first place. I believe the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has not done this House justice. It has taken positions which are not only minimalist but actually retrograde, and which weaken the Commission's proposals. This House must make changes. I do not agree with altering the legal base. We should extend the definition of environmental damage to safeguard special habitats and species. We should take the chance to put pressure on Member States that have failed to ratify the international marine conventions. We should give citizens the right to go to court directly to prevent environmental damage or to seek redress. None of this is very radical. We have all expressed concern about the damage done to our environment by human activity. This measure is one way in which we can start to do something practical to protect it and to put all our fine words into real effect. – Mr President, it is a pleasure to face the Commissioner for the fifth time today at this unearthly hour. I congratulate her for her efforts in trying to make sure that the habitats directive and associated directives are properly implemented. I wish her well. I have heard that some in the Commission believe that they have managed to squeeze more out of Member States in the past six months than they had in the previous six years. If that is the case then it is good news indeed. But the Commissioner is riding between two horses: one seeks to protect endangered species, the other seeks to assist the poorest parts of Europe. In fact, it is a position in which I too find myself to some extent. Some simple questions: how long is the Commissioner prepared to perform this balancing act? Just how much must Member States do to meet her requirements? Is she really prepared to tell people such as those whom I represent in Merseyside and the North-West of England that they must lose Structural Funds because their governments have failed to comply with the habitats directive? That is the balance I suppose. Fundamentally and finally, is she prepared to compromise to find solutions, if the undertakings being given by government or the work being undertaken by governments takes longer than we would wish? For example, if a Minister goes down on his knees, cut his wrists and writes a pledge in letters of blood that he will deliver the habitats directive in full within an agreed timetable, is she prepared to assist the region and provide structural funding in such circumstances? – Madam President, these negotiations were always going to be hard but Commission officials believed that a deal would be done at the end of the day because political leaders across the world simply had too much to lose by returning home empty-handed. It is a matter of huge disappointment that agreement was not reached and I very much regret that the end of the convention was marred by a dispute between Britain’s Deputy Prime Minister and the French Presidency over the compromise proposals he put forward. The fact that after Mr Prescott’s rather noisy departure, the Americans tabled new proposals, which came closer to the EU position, demonstrates that the French Presidency was right to hold firm. We were getting closer, but sadly time ran out. The fear is that the momentum has been lost and the American negotiators will change and we start afresh in May. The disagreement within Europe is all the more regrettable because my overriding impression of the convention was of a European Union negotiating as a closely-knit team, from a position which crossed party lines and united Member States behind shared principles, a shared outlook and a shared sense of anger at the refusal of the Americans to face up to their responsibilities as the world’s largest emitters of greenhouse gases. From all we have heard, we must assume that the US Senate will not ratify the Kyoto protocol, however hard we compromise. Therefore, we must give greater priority to bringing in and gaining the support of nations elsewhere, to getting emissions trading up and running, and to taking real action to reduce global warming gases in this Union. Let us hope we get agreement in May; in the meantime let Europe take the lead. The USA remains of great importance. Money talks in American politics more than it does within our Union. US industry and the oil companies are telling their politicians that they must reject the Kyoto protocol, whatever the American public say. My question to the Commissioner is this: How can we persuade American industry that it is in their commercial interests to support the protocol, so that they pull purse strings and pull the American politicians into line? How do we drag them kicking and screaming into the 21st century with all its problems? – Mr President, you do not have to be an implacable opponent of GMOs – and I am not – to challenge the undiluted advocacy of them in this report. Many Liberal Democrats will be challenging the report in the vote tomorrow. We want to see a reduction in the use of pesticides and herbicides. We want to see insects and wild plants flourish in our countryside. We want sustainable agriculture in developing nations. But we need to know that the proposed solution is not the cause of even greater problems. We hear claims from the manufacturers, intent as they are with stuffing their pockets with gold and making sure that farmers across the globe are locked into their supply chain. But where is the scientific evidence about the medium- and long-term effects of GM crops upon biodiversity? Who is going to compensate organic producers whose crops become contaminated and lose their value? We need answers to these questions before we open the floodgates. The jury is still out regarding GM crops and, given the irreversible nature of these decisions, there is no sound basis for making claims that biotechnology will be the answer to all our problems. – Mr President, more than thirty years ago an organisation called 'Friends of the Earth' was born in my country. I seem to remember a publicity stunt that featured an enormous mound of bottles which were no longer going to be returned for refilling but were simply going to be dumped in a landfill site. I was twelve or thirteen at the time and that publicity and the photographs on television woke many of us up to the concerns we still have for the environment and drew our attention to the waste of resources attached to so much of our way of living and our manufacturing processes. I am sorry that so many years later my own country is one of those which is trailing behind the countries of the rapporteur and the Commissioner in improving its recycling rate. So I am pleased that we have this European legislation, and indeed the whole waste strategy of the Commission, which is forcing individual countries like my own that are recalcitrant and bow too easily to industry pressure on their own doorstep to recognise and put into practice the principles of sustainability. These countries are very happy to talk about these principles on a wider stage but are reluctant to put them into practice on their own doorstep. The principle here that the producer should accept responsibility for the whole life of the product and ensure that the problems caused by that production are not passed on to future generations is one which we should embrace very strongly. So I welcome this legislation and consider it important that industry in my country and perhaps countries elsewhere should recognise that if it does not seize the opportunity to modernise its processes and live up to the high environmental standards then it will lose out on market opportunities across Europe. Two dilemmas have been pointed out concerning lead and brominated flame retardants. I put this one question to the Commissioner about the issue of low-cost, low-energy light bulbs: Is it better to have them recycled but to put up the cost, or is it better to keep down the cost, encourage their use and perhaps tackle the other serious environmental problem of global warming a little bit more rapidly than we might otherwise be able to do? Mr President, I would like to concentrate purely on the issue of sanitation and I apologise to the Commissioner for not giving her advance notice of some questions I wish to pose. I would be most grateful if she would try to depart from her prepared remarks and deal with these issues. At Johannesburg she, on behalf of the European Union, was successful in securing agreement on ambitious targets to improve sanitation for billions of people within a relatively short period of time. The first year has passed and there has been lots of talk and plenty of paper, but if the targets are to be met, we need to see hundreds of wells, thousands of septic tanks, tens of thousands of pipes being laid each and every month. At a meeting in Parliament earlier today, the Commissioner reminded Members that EUR 1 billion had been set aside to start projects and she informed us that the Council had blocked the spending of this money. Commissioner, can you tell the House, has the Commission being putting forward specific proposals for the use of some of this money on projects to improve sanitation in developing nations? Has any expenditure at all been authorised by the Council or has everything been blocked? Has this refusal to release funds been universal; has it been entirely by agreement of the Council or has it been the case that some Member States have been instrumental in securing the blocking of expenditure? Finally Commissioner, if this is the case, how do you feel personally about the way in which the Council appears to be backsliding on the commitments made by the European Union at a summit where – and we take great pride in this fact – we played a leadership role? – Mr President, travelling across the Union can sometimes seem like travelling in a time machine. Starting off in Britain, which still has a poor recycling record, the WEEE Directive looks like the future. But when you visit Denmark or the Netherlands where electrical and electronic waste is routinely collected, you see that the Commission directive is really only an attempt to harmonise and build on the best practice of the present. It is only those of us who still live in the past, Mr Bowe, who find it challenging and ambitious. It certainly will play a major part in waste-management policy and that is for the good. The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party wants to encourage recycling, good product design, best-use resources and reduce pollution. We strongly support the principle of producer responsibility. There is a lot still to be agreed between Parliament and the Council through the conciliation process and the fact that we are going to be engaged in lengthy discussion is a tribute to the rapporteur, who has done so much to bring all the political parties in this House together so that we are united and will almost certainly secure qualified majority voting on many amendments tomorrow. In particular I welcome his latest compromise proposal on paying for the costs of dealing with orphan waste. I do not believe that large legitimate manufacturers should have to pay the costs created by other companies, whether they be free-riders or small organisations. I am pleased that encouragement is now being given to re-use materials where environmentally appropriate, and I thank my colleagues across the House for the support they have given me in opposing the development of these so-called clever chips. My words may fall on some deaf ears here but I would ask Members to consider giving their support to a couple of amendments I have tabled. Amendment No 82 attempts to address the concern of cable manufacturers by making clear that financial responsibility for WEEE rests with the producer of the finished equipment and not with individual component manufacturers. I thought we were all agreed on that point. Amendment No 71 represents a plea for help for plastic recyclers. I conclude by saying with a certain mischievous glee, as someone who has campaigned for better recycling in my own country for 30 years, that I rather hope that this directive puts a bomb under my own local authorities and recalcitrant government. – Mr President, last year in Britain alone, 5 000 people died from overdosing on alcohol. They drank themselves to death in one session. Yet I do not see a directive before us to require alcohol to be submitted to all sorts of safety tests, or for bottles of Guinness or Strasbourg wine to carry the strongest possible health warnings. So why on earth are the manufacturers of food supplements being told that they must jump through a series of expensive hoops, which may be so costly as to drive some of them out of business, in order to keep their products on the market? My colleague, Frederick Ries, says that not all vitamins are safe, but of course you can kill yourself on anything if you eat enough of it. You can stuff yourself with baked beans until you die, but unlike alcohol or most pharmaceutical products, vitamin and food supplements do not have a track record of killing people. On the contrary, I, like Mr Blokland, have a stack of letters which testify that many do a great deal of good. This directive, therefore, is like taking a sledgehammer to crack a nut! Better labelling would have been sufficient to provide such protection as is needed, but perhaps that would not have been enough to satisfy the big drug companies, which are seeking to control a lucrative market. I remember the Commissioner telling us not long ago that under his regime we would have less interference of the kind which angers many European citizens for no good reason. However, when it comes to Brussels proving that it wants to treat people like an interfering nanny, this directive really does take the biscuit. – Mr President, if the political problems cannot be resolved at long last, the issue of Cyprus has the potential to derail the entire enlargement process or to leave us in the ridiculous situation where hundreds of thousands of Turkish Cypriots are notionally EU citizens without having being consulted, while at the same time facing EU sanctions of a political and economic nature. We cannot afford to close our eyes to the reality. I look forward to Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot politicians sitting alongside us as parliamentarians in this Chamber and to the creation of a bi-zonal federal state. But in discussing this issue, it is not acceptable simply to say that the problems of Cyprus started with the Turkish invasion in 1974 without mentioning the divisions of the island from 1963 when Greek Cypriots murdered Turkish Cypriots. If there is to be true reconciliation between these peoples, then complete objectivity is needed and in this report before us that is too sadly lacking. – Mr President, I should like to say to the Commissioner that, at a time of violent clashes in Genoa and concern over globalisation, the outcome of the Bonn Summit should have renewed peoples' faith in the political process. I hope so – it certainly did mine. Together with Mr Pronk and the Belgian Presidency, you have achieved a great deal. You provided an immense service to the environment and strengthened European influence. I would like to congratulate and thank you. I was pleased with aspects of the deal, the compromise over nuclear power for example was as good as we could get. But overall the agreement is weak. What matters, however, is the process that has now been established. I know that Mr de Roo has instructed me in the past about how the process and the importance of it cannot be overestimated, pointing for example at the way in which the Montreal Protocol has been developed into a really effective instrument from a rather poor beginning over the past decade. But the Kyoto process is going to be very much harder. The priorities are to have it ratified, to get our own Member States to implement effective action plans, and not only to launch emissions trading but to prove that it can work, which is the hardest task of all. And if we can make it work, then I hope that American business will be attracted and the whole political climate across the globe will change. You have still a lot to do. The vast majority in this House will strongly support you in your continuing efforts. I thank you again. – Mr President, my assistant, Vikki Phillips, has just handed me a note which says that Denmark spends 15 times more than Greece in carrying out environmental inspections and making appropriate assessments. Well, if that is the case, then something is clearly very wrong, and I suspect it is not wrong with Denmark. I am very pleased to support most of what the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment has said, although I have some trepidation in doing so being conscious that the next ECJ fine may well be against the UK for its failure to comply with the bathing water directive, despite the fact that a great deal of money has been spent and effort made in recent years to reach such compliance. I want to make it clear, though, that I do not believe that we should be using the failure of some Member States to achieve compliance with environmental legislation to justify weakening our ambitions or claiming that too much legislation is impractical. I am all for being realistic and for making sure that new legislation makes sense but the problems we face both throughout the European Union and across the world are too great for us to lower our sights. And I think some of the progress made by the United Kingdom in implementing the habitats directive over the past year demonstrates very clearly that it is very often not the fault of the legislation but the lack of political will which is to blame for the failure to deliver the goods we all wish to see. I want strongly to support the idea of a scoreboard which the Commissioner mentioned and of gestures to name and shame those Member States which are failing to meet the expectations of MEPs, of the Commission and of the public. As a politician, the Commissioner knows very well the importance of making sure that that information is presented in a way which is easily digestible and understood by every journalist across the European Union and perhaps a few politicians as well. So, let us call it the Commission's little red book, no, let us call it the Commission's big green book, albeit one with a few black spots on its pages. Let us name and shame at every opportunity and bring the public alongside us in ensuring that this environmental legislation is enforced and that Member States recognise their responsibilities. – Mr President, the Commission's proposal for a ban on the testing of cosmetics on animals – but only within the European Union – is totally inadequate. I agree entirely with the rapporteur. It will allow us to pretend that we are doing something to prevent animal cruelty, but while maintaining the same testing requirements not one fewer animal would suffer. By contrast, the rapporteur and the Committee, in calling for a sales and marketing ban, are maintaining the previous signal and the moral guidance about the relationship between humans and animals: that we do not accept that cruelty should be practised on animals for no better purpose than to develop products which are essentially frivolous and designed to flatter our vanity. The Committee has addressed some spurious issues put up by the industry, such as that of the possible health benefits from new products, which they said could be reclassified as pharmaceuticals. Our emphasis is on saying that the industry should spend a little less on marketing and a lot more on developing alternative testing methods. Despite the vociferous objections of the industry, with 8 000 products already on the market, with the shop shelves heaving with deodorants and shampoos, make-up and hair gels etc., it hardly seems likely that a great many people are going to lose out if a marketing ban is introduced. At the heart of this debate lies the problem of the World Trade Organisation. The truth is we do not know whether possible objections can be sustained. If they can, then change is needed. Whether it be this issue or the environment or the application of the precautionary principle, we must have the democratic freedom to be able to insist on some minimum standards acceptable to the majority of our citizens. It is totally unacceptable that those who seek to bring about improvements in animal welfare should be told by the Commission to put up the white flag and run away from the battlefield even before we know whether the enemy is armed. That would not indicate wise judgment, but abject cowardice demonstrating a total want of real leadership. – Mr President, a few weeks ago we returned from the Johannesburg Summit with the demands ringing in our ears that fine words should be turned into real action in the knowledge that Europe's pledges were being greeted with cynicism by journalists and the public. Yet if those same critics look to the issue of climate change they will find that such cynicism is unwarranted. From the beginning, the EU has led from the front. It confounded the cynics by securing agreement for implementation of the Kyoto Protocol and by pushing the US and its head-in-the-sand administration into the sidelines. We now see words being turned into action, with an emissions trading scheme which may well prove the basis for meeting up to 50% of the reductions we have pledged to achieve. I first read about emissions trading and about harnessing market forces to encourage industry to meet environmental objectives a decade or so ago in pressure group magazines. Now those ideas, then so easily dismissed as crazy and impractical, are being given positive form. I commend the Commission for its draft directive. In many ways, however, it is a timid document and thanks to the work of our rapporteur we have all-party agreement to press for it to be made more ambitious. Liberal Democrats in the Parliament will be joining in supporting a range of measures to broaden its scope, to extend it to include additional industrial sectors and require it to include other global warming gases in addition to CO2. Personally, I absolutely accept the need for a cap in allowances in each Member State although I acknowledge that some of my colleagues in my group are concerned that the requirements being placed upon their nations by the burden-sharing agreement are already onerous. We have a lot to learn. That is why I am pleased that Parliament will today vote to give a temporary opt-out to those emission-trading schemes already established. I am not convinced that the British scheme provides the basis for long-term development. It is a different scheme in concept and application from the Commission's proposal, and we should be able to learn and benefit from it in the long term. After the successful conclusion of the Kyoto conference in Bonn, the Commissioner told the press that we could now tell our grandchildren that we did something to tackle the problem of climate change. All of us, Commissioners, Ministers, and parliamentarians want to be able to endorse those words. It will not be easy. There are some understandable national concerns but also some narrow, commercial interests wishing to dilute these measures. We must keep our eyes on the long term and the enormity of the challenge. If we do not take action now, we turn our back on the very future of the planet. – Mr President, is there nothing in the Rules of Procedure which requires Members to be present to hear responses to points they have made to the Commissioner during the course of the debate? Surely it is a gross discourtesy to the Commission to behave in this way. Should this not be something which is raised in the Conference of Presidents? – Today, a working group of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights reports on the case of my constituent in the North-West of England, Mr James Mawdsley, a human-rights campaigner who is imprisoned in Burma, and it is widely expected that this United Nations group will conclude that the Burmese authorities have contravened international law in holding him. Within the last few days the British Consul has discovered that in reward for his protests against being kept in solitary confinement, prisons guards have subjected him to three days' worth of beating and left him with severe facial injuries. Tonight we will be debating the Asia-Europe summit, and I have no doubt that the resolution we eventually adopt will emphasise our commitment to human rights. Mr Mawdsley is just one amongst millions of people in Burma who suffer at the hands of the Burmese authorities. I ask you in communicating the eventual conclusions of this Parliament to bear in mind our concerns for this one individual whose treatment symbolises so much that is rotten in that country. – Mr President, through mankind's own folly we have damaged the ozone layer which protects life on this planet and now we must do everything we can to undo that damage. There has been very little opposition to the principle of phasing out HCFCs and methyl bromide. The question in committee has been about the timescales which should be involved. All Members have been presented with a great deal of conflicting factual information which has made reaching a judgement difficult. Like the rapporteur, the Liberal Democrats want to ensure that rapid progress is made, that we see the maximum benefits in the shortest possible period. But the choices are not simple. There is a real fear that some of the well-intentioned amendments which have been tabled by the rapporteur may actually make the situation worse; in particular, that it will make it difficult for us to phase out across the world, and especially in the developing nations, the harmful CFCs which are so much more detrimental to the ozone layer than the items mentioned in this report. The benefits to be gained from these proposals are too small for us to take that risk. We support the rapporteur's aims and will be supporting most of her amendments but we are not convinced that she has addressed our concerns for the environment in their entirety. – Mr President, any medicine can be dangerous. If we need any reminder of that, we need only look at the thousands who die each year from taking authorised prescription medicines. By comparison, the risks posed by traditional herbal remedies are minimal. So let us keep a sense of proportion and make sure we do not throw the baby out with the bath water. Nobody should object to rules intended to safeguard health and to ensure that the consumer can make informed decisions. However, excessively restrictive application of regulations may threaten the future of some producers and specialist suppliers such as health food shops, possibly encouraging consumers to buy from unregulated internet suppliers. I therefore ask the Commission to be careful in its application of these regulations and to take account of these genuine concerns. In particular, I ask the House that if a herbal medicine has been used anywhere in the world for more than 30 years and there was clear evidence that its normal use is safe, then we should not deny it to the people we represent. We must not be so arrogant as to imply that Europe has nothing to learn from others. Madam President, this issue divides our Member States as it does people across the world, sometimes with an intensity comparable to religious conviction. I confess to having no such absolute certainties. I am a sceptic rather than an opponent of genetically modified crops. I acknowledge that they may bring about benefits in terms of the reduced use of pesticides and herbicides, that there are no proven health risks – or none yet established – and that GM crops could, across the world, be grown in circumstances which would not permit the growth of conventional crops. However, I see no certain gains from growing GM products in Europe. I believe changes in European and American trade policies are likely to prove of greater benefit to developing nations, and I have fears that we could be making mistakes that will have unforeseen consequences for our environment. A common framework of policies is needed if we are to avoid the risk of a trade war with the United States, with appeals to the WTO, and to curb the risk of divisions amongst ourselves across the European Union. I await with interest the result of the field trials currently being carried out in my own country, to see whether they provide any evidence on the effects of biodiversity. I am pleased to hear that the Commission's proposals for guidelines on the subject of coexistence are on schedule. It is vital that these ensure that conventional and organic growers should not lose out as a result of this technology. They must be protected from the risk of financial loss, and the proposals here should allow individual Member States to take significant steps to prevent cross-contamination – at least that is the hope. There is a strong sense that we are all being driven too fast by narrow commercial interests, mainly concentrated in the United States. As a result, I have no doubt that this is an imperfect package and we will have to return to this subject. In the meantime consumers must be given the information to make their own choices and, if this ultimately slows the development of this technology while more research is undertaken, then that may be no bad thing. Mr President, Parliament can point to some real gains from the deal negotiated with the Council to fast-track this legislation and avoid the conciliation procedure. We can claim to enclose a number of possible loopholes. Member States will not be allowed to issue allowances that exceed their previously agreed targets, and they must not use the Kyoto mechanisms to avoid taking action to reduce emissions domestically. We look forward to the Commission coming back with plans to bring other greenhouse gases into the scheme and to extend its scope to include other industries. We await with keen anticipation the Commission's proposals to reduce emissions from the transport sector. Of course, we might have secured more, but speed is of the essence. We want this scheme to succeed, and if Member States are to start meeting their targets they must publish national allocation plans by March 2004. Several Member States have expressed serious concern about this legislation and this has been reflected within all our political groups. All those leading on the issue have faced a degree of resistance from some colleagues, but it is a tribute to the skill of our rapporteur that we have secured all-party support for this package. It is also a reflection of our shared concerns. When the Commissioner reflects on her term in office, she can take particular pride in the role she personally, and her team, played in securing support for the Kyoto Protocol. But with emissions of greenhouse gases continuing to increase in most developed countries, we hope that this scheme can make a very significant difference. I hope that it will enable the European Union to retain its credibility as the world's leading force in pressing for action to curb global warming. I hope also that it will send out a very clear signal about our determination, both to the United States and to Russia – particularly to Russia – whose ratification of the Protocol is so important. – I hope Commissioner Fischler understands that Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy fully endorse what the Commissioner has just said about the need for extra resources to ensure that environmental legislation is properly enforced. But it is not just Ireland that is causing difficulties. In October last year a reasoned opinion against the construction of the Odelouca dam in Portugal was issued and yet I understand that construction on the dam started in January this year. What steps has the Commission taken to try to persuade the Portuguese authorities to stop construction of this dam? – Mr President, Mrs Flemming's report builds on the existing water framework directive. My group is happy to support it. If water resources are to be used sustainably, the price of water to users must reflect both the costs of delivery and the costs of subsequent treatment. But when we vote tomorrow, a great deal of attention will be focused on just one aspect of the report, the Spanish hydrological scheme to build 120 dams and transfer vast quantities of water from one river basin to another. I am not sure that a report about general principles should single out any one Member State for criticism but, having listened over the past few weeks to both sides of the debate, my personal view is that this scheme seems to be the antithesis of the approach laid down in Mrs Flemming's report. The Commissioner has made very clear in the past her personal opposition to the use of EU structural funds to support projects which are damaging to the environment. So I hope she will watching closely when the Spanish Government comes to the Commission seeking billions of pounds in structural fund support for a project which seems to me to directly contravene the principles if not the letter of the water framework directive, one of the Commission's greatest achievements. I expect the Commission to make it absolutely clear that environmental impact studies must be independent and must consider the entire scheme, not just individual proposals. This Spanish scheme is set to become a test case of whether the Commission's commitments toward environmental sustainability are matched by a determination to stand up to pressure from vested interests and the governments of Member States. I hope that the Commissioner will do her best to make sure that her colleagues pass that test. – Mr President, at first reading the Liberal Group gave its support to the Commission's proposals. We want to see a significant reduction in air pollution within a period of time that reflects the serious environmental problems we face. The Commission argued that the economic benefits would far outweigh the costs involved, but Member States dissented and said that they could not go beyond the targets agreed at the Gothenburg Protocol. Parliament was right, then, to back the Commission. I am pleased that in negotiation the Commission was able to overcome Member States' resistance, make some progress and secure more ambitious targets. But at second reading we are in a rather different position. The Commission has said that it has made a firm agreement with the Council and is sticking to it. It will go no further, it says. It will not support the amendments tabled by the PPE-DE or the Socialist Group. I would like Member States to be more ambitious. But at first reading, Parliament supported proposals based on a Commission model which I find fiendishly complicated. In the absence of the Commission's support now, I do not see how we, as legislators, not technical experts, can propose more ambitious targets for individual countries unless we pull figures out of the air, which seems to me a rather poor and amateurish way of making law. So I have accepted that this is as far as we can go for the time being. But I am also aware that this is a poker game and I am a rotten poker player. It may be that Member States have cards up their sleeves which they are prepared to offer up if pushed in conciliation. It may be that the Commissioner secretly wishes Parliament to pursue its original agenda. If that proves to be the case then I have misread the game. I am waiting with interest to hear from the Commissioner whether she has been keeping cards close to her chest or whether her public position remains the same. – Mr President, I have admiration for the accomplishment of scientific research in developing medicines which have proved of great benefit. Yet I also have a healthy scepticism towards both the pharmaceutical industry and our exaggerated confidence in some of its products, many of which cause a great deal more harm than the illegal recreational drugs which attract the bulk of public attention. For that reason, it would be wrong to place more unnecessary burdens and regulations upon food supplements and the health-food shops that sell them. Many believe these products to be beneficial, and at least they do not cause harm. I regard homeopathic medicines in the same way. Today we have more patients who are better informed than ever before – that is a good thing. I want people to have access to objective information about medicines and treatment. However, that is quite different from opening the door to the direct advertising of medicines. The result, I fear, will not be better public information, but greater public confusion, stimulated by the marketing techniques of a used-car salesman. – Mr President, I am glad to hear that the Commissioner is pressing for eight Members of this House to attend COP6, but I want to emphasise that we want to play a constructive role in EU strategy making. We do not want to be squeezed out as Members were who attended the World Health Organisation conference recently. We see ourselves working together at a set of European institutions fighting to improve the situation and ensure that the Kyoto Protocol is ratified. Compare, after all, our common agreement with the experience we had just recently at that tele-conferencing session with members of the US Congress, which frankly was a very depressing experience. The chairman of the Health Science Committee spelt out, from the American point of view, that this was an economic issue, not an environmental one. That really spells out the differences between the approach of the United States representatives and those of this Parliament. There was no recognition of the need to make sacrifices or to accept that we have historic responsibilities on both sides of the Atlantic as the largest emitters of greenhouse gases. For all our good intentions, however, it looks as though in the European Union far from cutting CO2 emissions by the end of this decade we shall end up increasing them. So the prospects for COP6 look poor, but the prospects of our meeting our goals even with Kyoto do not look that good either. That is not helped by governments across the European Union responding to calls to cut fuel prices. If we are serious about the environment, these must be resisted. We should not be cutting fuel tax. I say "yes" to emissions trading – let us get on with it. Let us also hurry up with the measures we need to take in each Member State cutting traffic emissions, increasing energy efficiency, promoting renewables and CHP. The sad truth is we will not succeed in preventing climate change anyway, but if we do not start taking action now, the problems will become all the worse. – I would like to start by paying tribute to Commissioner Wallström, the Commissioner for the Environment. I do not think any of the parliamentarians have any doubt at all about her passionate personal commitment towards trying to secure a positive outcome from the talks in Bonn, and I would also like to say a word of thanks to my Liberal colleague, Prime Minister Verhofstadt, for the emphasis he placed this morning on saying that the problem of climate change is the greatest single challenge facing the planet. One thing that this whole issue has brought about – if it was needed – is a great awareness that this is a very small planet upon which we live and that mankind is very capable, through its industrial practices, of changing our environment. Even the United States now recognises this, although they have yet to come up with an alternative in any practical form to the Kyoto Protocol. There are great opportunities for, and advantages in, addressing this problem by using technology which is in the process of being developed or has been developed to change our practices and reduce global warming. This offers great benefits to society, and economic opportunities for those of us who take a lead, but why are we not able to pursue this more effectively? One problem is vested interests – the classic example being the fossil fuel industries; another is weak political leadership by all of us – we are all responsible for this. We back down over taking decisions which will be unpopular in the short term with our electorates. I wish to see harmonised environmental taxation at a European level – the objective being not to raise more money but to change practices and priorities and ensure that industry at the same time is able to compete on a level playing field. We have had the problems – we have experienced the problems with fuel duty in Britain and elsewhere whenever politicians try really to apply taxes which benefit the environment in this way. The odd thing of course, in Britain’s case, is that harmonised energy taxation on fuel duties would also probably reduce our taxes. I have just returned from a visit to Cyprus – one of the accession countries – where I find out that not only is there no fuel duty on the use of petrol but that petrol is actually subsidised. So, my question to the Commission is this: when it comes to practical forms, when it comes to actually dealing with what I hope will be a positive outcome from Bonn, how does the Council pursue harmonised energy taxation at the same time as dealing with enlargement, which makes the possibility of unanimity so much more difficult to achieve if it we were actually to have harmonised environmental taxation of a sort which is worth having. – Madam President, on a point of order. The BBC this morning reported that a British Member of this House, holding a senior position within his delegation, continues to offer strategic advice to private clients, but does not state in the Register of Interests who these clients are. The people of Europe have a right to expect their representatives to keep the public interest separate from private profit, but they can only be sure that this is being done in all cases if the information is both publicly available and easily accessible. Madam President, since these matters are currently being considered by the Quaestors, may I ask you to use your influence both to ensure that the Register of Interests is brought up to date and modified to cover instances of this kind and, above all, to ensure that the Register is not only available for inspection by this House, but is also published on the Internet? – Mr President, animal testing is carried out on a huge scale across the European Union and the world to ensure that products like chemicals and new medicines and pharmaceuticals are safe for humans to use. The public has long made clear that it wants an end to animal testing for no better purpose than to ensure the development of yet more vanity products to fill our bathroom shelves, such as all the deodorants, soaps, and hair shampoos to be found on supermarket shelves. Yet this debate has dragged on year after year with it becoming increasingly difficult for the public's wish to be turned into practice. Now we have a classic conflict between the Parliament, which has made it clear that it wants an end to animal testing, and the Council, which has done its best to ensure that no marketing ban is introduced. We have made it quite clear that an animal testing ban within the European Union alone is insufficient. It simply means that animals will be tested upon in countries outside the European Union where no proper supervision can be undertaken. A marketing ban has to be introduced, pressure has to be put on industry to ensure that new alternatives are developed. The proposals being put forward by the EPP have been particularly helpful. My group will be supporting Mrs Roth-Behrendt's call for a marketing ban to be introduced at the earliest moment. However it is likely that it will be the EPP amendment which goes through today. That leaves open the option for us all of an ambitious and yet realistic settlement, an agreement between the Parliament and the Council which can end this matter once and for all, putting pressure on the industry but not creating insoluble problems. I hope that today in the vote later in this plenary we can once and for all put an end to this issue and put an end to unnecessary animal suffering. – Mr President, if you are going to refer this matter to the Rules of Procedure, could you also ask them to consider the sense of drawing up a resolution weeks before we have the debate with the Commissioner and then voting on it after the Commissioner has made a response which more than overtakes the whole purpose of the resolution. – Mr President, given the importance of the directive on national emission ceilings to this report on a proposal for a daughter directive, it is a little surprising that the order of debate is as it is, because without reduction in the key trans-boundary pollutants we are not going to reduce ozone. This report sets national targets for ozone levels and proposes action plans for dealing with local problems of exceedance. To save time I am going to assume that the respiratory and other health problems associated with ozone are understood, and that every Member of this House will want to reduce them. The disputes between us will be about costs and time-scales, and perhaps also about the accuracy of the Commission's methodology and the achievability of the targets it has set in this directive. Let me deal directly with the Commission's core proposal, the setting of a target for 2010 of 120 mg per cubic metre for ozone, not to be exceeded on more than 20 days per year. Commission proposals for environmental improvements need to be both ambitious and realistic. These proposals are certainly ambitious but many governments dispute whether they are politically realistic, and having just come from a difficult – albeit ultimately successful – group meeting of my own, I know that many Members have doubts. In particular, representatives of the Mediterranean countries point out problems resulting from the strong sunlight they enjoy. I point out that the Commission's methodology has taken full account of this but I look at their faces and still see a degree of scepticism. I did wonder some months ago whether to table amendments, which would suggest a less ambitious outcome, but which would perhaps be more acceptable to Member States. But the Commission's 120 mg target is in line with World Health Organisation proposals, and who am I to suggest that they should be challenged? The number of days of exceedance could easily be adjusted, but that is something to negotiate only when necessary. It is a good target and, if it is at all possible, then it should be retained. The position I have taken in preparing this report is to say that those who want tougher targets than the Commission has proposed should have their views rejected. But equally it would be wrong for us to water down the draft directive. That is why I am sorry to see amendments tabled which reflect the Industry Committee's position. It seems to have been overlooked by many that these amendments, if carried, would leave the European Union in a much weaker position with regard to ozone targets than is enjoyed by the United States of America. We are aware of growing problems of ozone across Europe, but if we are not even prepared to match the standards being set by the USA, one of our great commercial rivals, this would indeed be a great shame and a sorry reflection on our commitment to environmental improvement. I ask Parliament to support my proposals, to give its backing to the Commissioner and to let her play her part in negotiating a common position which is both ambitious and politically realistic. – Madam President, hundreds of thousands of people die each year from the use of perfectly legal drugs. Yet we subsidise the growing of tobacco plants while we cut down cannabis plants. It is all complete nonsense. The truth is that prohibition lies at the very heart of many of our problems. Prohibition creates huge profits for criminals, who seek to extend their market. Prohibition fosters corruption and theft. Prohibition denies drug users the information about content that is available to everyone who enjoys an alcohol drink in the evening. If health messages are to work and society is to be protected we must replace prohibition with government regulation. The criminals must be denied their profits if we are to bring these problems under control. This paper is an excellent step forward. It ignores the moral outrage which has been expressed so often in the past. It concentrates on pragmatic and sensible steps to inform people and reduce harm. It is in complete contrast to the Swedish approach, which I find utterly appalling. As Mr Bowis said, just saying 'no' does not work - it certainly does not work in most of the societies in which we live. The idea that we should try and prevent needle exchanges, for example, will simply mean more deaths, more blood poisoning, more AIDS. It is a vicious and cruel approach. . The Liberal Democrat delegation did not vote with the rest of the ELDR Group on the Schmidt report. We voted against Amendments Nos 1 to 13 and the proposal, as we wished the proposal in its current form to be withdrawn. Our reason for doing so is that we believe VAT on postal services, especially in respect of securing a universal service for packages below two kilogrammes, is a matter best left to national governments under the principle of subsidiarity. However, we remain open to considering future proposals aimed at ensuring greater competition. – Mr President, I certainly agree with Mr Bowe's final summary. Although the common position places firm controls on permitted emissions from waste incinerators, I know that whenever proposals to build such an incinerator are made in my country, people rise in protest, they distrust the operator's claims and I have a degree of sympathy with them. So I and many of my colleagues will be backing most of Mr Blokland's amendments because we want the highest possible standards. I have no problem at all if these prove technically difficult to achieve – no problem, because Britain has a shameful record of having the lowest household waste recycling in Europe and great room for improvement. Many of us believe that any government in our country will encourage the construction of waste incinerators as an alternative to encouraging the alternatives. It would be a case of "throw it on the furnace" and putting it out of sight and out of mind which to my mind is a false approach. We have to concentrate on reducing waste, recycling what is left and leaving incinerators as a last resort. – Mr President, I know of no one who disagrees with the view that environmental legislation should be enforced equally and effectively across the Union. This report gave us the opportunity to take some practical action. It seems to me that for more than a year and a half we have had a dialogue of the deaf and the result is that we have achieved nothing worth having. I do not blame the Commissioner who inherited this from her predecessor, but the recommendation from the Commission was deeply flawed and thoroughly unpopular with Member States, who supported it only because it was non-binding and could therefore be ignored. The view of Member States, that it was too prescriptive, came to be shared by many Members of this Parliament. But there was never an opportunity to have a serious discussion between the Council and Parliament about the best means of achieving what should have been shared objectives. Perhaps this was a failing on our part to take some kind of initiative. On the other hand, the radical yet eminently sensible compromise proposal made by Mrs Jackson and backed by the Conciliation Committee gained no support either from the Presidency or the Commission. So maybe no meeting of minds was possible. But the commitment secured from the Commission to consider introducing some kind of directive in a couple of years' time, while welcome, given the Commissioner's declared support for ensuring that we are enforcing rules and laws effectively, should have been coming any way and adds nothing to previous statements. I regard this entire law-making exercise as a failure. There was simply no proper dialogue between the institutions. I feel we have let down our constituents across the European Union. With hindsight, I believe it would have been better for Parliament to have let the conciliation process collapse. The Liberal Group will be voting against adoption of this recommendation tomorrow. I just hope we can all do better next time. – Mr President, as I was coming to Parliament this morning I remembered the night I sat by my father's bedside looking at his wasted body as the lung cancer finally claimed him. I am sure I am not the only person in this Parliament to have lost friends or family through smoking. The fact is that if the laws on drugs which apply in most countries across the European Union were applied consistently, then tobacco manufacturers would all be locked up behind bars and condemned as murderers for deliberately making their products addictive. Yet when it comes to the greatest killer drug of all, we apply different rules. There is no consistency and we say that people should be allowed to choose for themselves. As a Liberal, I agree with that position: people  be allowed to choose for themselves. However, everything possible must be done to ensure that those decisions are made with full knowledge of the consequences. The manufacturers say that everyone knows the risks already; that there is no need to increase the size of the health warnings, and that they certainly should not adopt the sort of proposal I am putting forward, to supplement the health warnings with some hard-hitting pictures to drive home the consequences. Frankly, the manufacturers have an addiction of their own: an addiction to trying to mislead us. If the rules on advertising were changed, manufacturers would grasp the opportunity to promote their products in every possible way, because they believe that advertising works. And we should accept that fact: advertising does work. We should seek to turn the tables on them. We should seek to ensure that the cigarette packs themselves are turned into instruments to promote health, not death. We should follow the Canadian example and ensure that advertising is used effectively. And the bigger the better. Madam President, despite the threat of a no-confidence motion, I hope that the Commissioner will not cancel her airline tickets to Moscow. Lobbying has been intensive and persuasive over this issue. I must admit that my views on points of detail have changed many times, but I have come to the conclusion that, while backing a closed-loop recycling system for cadmium batteries in the medium term, we should be looking in the long term for the replacement of such batteries because of their toxicity. The many exemptions I shall be supporting show that I consider this approach to be a measured and balanced one. We must be careful not to set a level of lead so low that it will effectively prohibit the use of batteries containing even trace elements of lead for important purposes, notably in hearing aids. I have no doubt that we will, in practice, be able to resolve these questions as we consider the legislation further. I should like to touch upon the issue of collection targets for portable batteries. I am deeply cynical about these. I have been lobbied by the British Local Government Association, which wants me to support proposals for much higher targets – this from an association representing local authorities that currently only collect 12% of household waste. It all seems ridiculous. As we know, Member States all too often agree to what should be legally-binding targets in the certain knowledge that the pathetically cumbersome enforcement procedures that the Commission has at its disposal will mean that they never actually have to meet those targets within anything like the timescales proposed. As I have been saying for the last five years, we have to find better ways of getting ministers who sign up to these agreements to keep to their word. Madam President, industry complains about regulation and interference from Brussels. I can hardly think of legislation more likely to cause concern to some manufacturers than that which indicates in such detail how they will make their products and what minimum standards of energy they must achieve, with lots of detailed specifications still to come, appliance-by-appliance, determined by the comitology procedure and very much out of the public gaze. How do we justify interference in the private market on such a scale – interference and the setting of standards that go far beyond health and safety requirements? I believe that the potential benefits of energy-saving, of making more efficient products and of reducing carbon dioxide emissions speak for themselves. I am concerned that in an attempt to reconcile the different requirements of Member States – between hot countries and cold countries – the Commission may come up with compromises that set standards well below the best that can be achieved. I urge the Commission to be ambitious. This is a positive move. In selling it to citizens and consumers alike, there is a simple message: by cutting energy use we can help them save money and we can all contribute to do our bit to save the planet. – Trying to put the principles of environmental sustainability into practice is no easy task. The Council is actually inventing the wheel. The impression that many of us have is that the discussions are taking place behind closed doors. I wonder whether the presidency is trying to open the discussion up, increase the transparency of the process and perhaps involve other organisations such as NGOs in the development of strategies. I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council in particular what is being done to press for the working groups to identify specific medium-term objectives, clear targets and programmes of action, so that we have something to get our teeth into and have a demonstrable means of measuring progress and achievement? – Mr President, I represent the north-west of England which, with the cities of Manchester and Liverpool, is I suppose one of the most densely populated parts of the European Union. We have a particular problem with marine flat fish – flounders in the estuary of the River Mersey in fact – which are exhibiting extreme intersex characteristics and we do not know what the cause is. We have a lot of chemical factories around the estuary and suspicion has fallen on them, but the scientists are also looking at the detergents which are used both for industrial purposes and in our own homes. They are looking at oestrogens – synthetic oestrogens in particular – used perhaps in the pill by hundreds or thousands of women in the region. Indeed, they are looking at natural oestrogen produced by women in their millions. It could be a combination of all these things – and this is the difficulty. We do not know the answers and there are more than 500 chemicals from which we could choose. I have doubts about the use of the precautionary principle and of course, about the misuse of the precautionary principle – by its nature we never know when it is appropriate to use it or not. There must be very great concern about the long-term effects of putting thousands of chemicals into the natural environment, but it is difficult to identify exactly which chemicals to target. The evidence of falling sperm counts, of rising levels of breast cancer, of female polar bears growing penises or whatever gives rise to very real fears and we have to be prepared to ban some substances on suspicion alone, even before we have firm scientific evidence. I support both the Commission's proposals and the rapporteur's suggestions. However, we can be sure that there are many disputes to come when we start highlighting chemicals which must be banned. – We are about to discuss the subject of reforming the Commission and you will recall, Madam President, that at the beginning of the last session, I raised with you the question of whether, in the interests of openness and transparency, the Members’ register of interests could be made more available to the public by being published on the Internet. You promised Parliament you would raise this subject with the Quaestors that very evening. I wonder if you are now in a position to confirm to Parliament that the Quaestors have agreed in principle that the register should be published on the Internet and, if so, whether you will personally set them a deadline – perhaps 1 April – for doing so. Mr President, this is a good practical proposal from the Commission for doing something about global warming and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, because, although the total quantity of greenhouse gases being produced from air conditioning and refrigeration equipment is not vast, the amount is growing very substantially year by year – it is expected to increase 15 times between 1995 and 2010. The committee has rejected some of the key proposals from the Commission on mobile air conditioning. I hope it has made the position for the car industry clearer. However, I am not sure that the way in which we have thrown out some of the opportunities for flexibility is really the most appropriate course of action, so we shall wait to see what the Council of Ministers has to say about that and, no doubt, return to this debate. Most of all, I regret that the Socialist Group and the European People's Party have done this deal on pushing the date for the introduction of vehicles using carbon dioxide back to 2011 from the original proposal of the committee for 2009. That is not ambitious enough, certainly not for a first reading, when we have so many negotiations yet to come. I know it takes manufacturers many years to design a vehicle to put on the market. A few years ago no one used air conditioning – I have never bought a car with air conditioning. What do we say to future generations? We did not take action to curb greenhouse gas emissions and global warming as fast as we could, because we all wanted to drive around in cooler cars in the summer. However convincing the industry's arguments may be now, they will look pretty weak in years to come. Mr President, I recognise what the Commission is doing to prepare for the implementation of our programme to improve sanitation. However, I am not clear whether the Commission has actually put to the Council specific proposals for the expenditure of some of this EUR 1 billion or whether such expenditure has in fact been blocked. . – Mr President, I had not followed the last report in any detail but if Commissioner Wallström is in the same sort of mood as Commissioner Bolkestein, I am glad I am not tabling any amendments today. On a complete change of note, a few weeks ago I was reading to my daughter, Kate, from  by the 19th-century British author Charles Dickens. Scrooge sat in his counting house, he wrote. "The city clocks had only just gone three, but it was quite dark already and candles were flaring in the windows of the neighbouring offices like ruddy smears upon the palpable brown air." It must be a great cause for cheer in European cities today that we no longer have to breathe that "palpable brown air". It is a sign of environmental progress and achievement that air quality now is better than it has been for centuries. But there is more yet to be done, and in its Clean Air for Europe programme the Commission has identified particulates and ozone as two priorities for action. Ozone pollution contributes to the premature death of tens of thousands of people each year; it causes breathing difficulties, coughs, headaches and eye irritation. The World Health Organisation has not been able to identify a threshold below which there are no effects. It can also damage vegetation, reduce crop yields and stunt the growth of forests and, like acid rain, it can eat into and destroy the fabric of buildings and works of art. And so we have this draft directive to address the problem. It started out as a remarkably weak proposal, the key element of which was to set targets for 2010 for the maximum number of exceedances above WHO guidelines, but these targets would not have been binding on Member States. It also called for the preparation of short-term action plans to deal with acute problems and for more public information and health alerts. During the course of the past two years, Parliament has been able to use its codecision powers to give this legislation some teeth. We have strengthened the public's right to information. We have made it easier for recalcitrant countries to be named and shamed into improving their performance. We have ensured that damage to materials is included amongst the criteria for consideration. We have re-emphasised our wish to see long-term reductions in ozone levels achieved by 2020 in line with the National Emissions Ceilings Directive proposals. But above all, we have addressed the issue of the non-binding short-term targets. Instead of Member States having to work to achieve these "as far as possible", which was the original proposal, we have insisted that effective measures  be taken unless the targets cannot be achieved by "proportionate measures". I want to emphasise that we agreed this wording because both the Commission and our own legal services advised us that it make the provisions of the directive enforceable and that Member States be taken to the European Court of Justice if they failed to take such measures. In other words, we have used our codecision powers to transform a statement of good intent into a legally binding commitment. Even so, the European Environmental Bureau has criticised us, asking: "Why do we need a directive at all if the 2010 targets are not fully binding?" But this misunderstands the nature of ozone pollution. It is hugely transboundary. While peak exceedances are falling across Europe, the average level is continuing to rise, almost certainly as a result of pollution generated far from our shores. I do not believe that Spain, or Italy, or Germany, or any of us should face the prospect of legal sanctions because they are being polluted from China. That would not be fair and it would not be realistic. I want Member States here to be required to do all that they can realistically to meet the targets, no more and no less. I think that "palpable brown air" gave a lot of character to the story of Scrooge. But it is not appropriate now. Perhaps I will ask my daughter, Kate, if she will write a 21st-century version featuring clean air. However, with the assistance of the Commission and the last Belgian Presidency, Parliament has been able in the meantime to use its negotiating powers to turn a simple wish list into a requirement for our various governments to take action which will significantly improve air quality across Europe. We have secured greater changes and a more ambitious directive than we could reasonably have expected when the draft was first proposed. We can be proud of what we have achieved. . The current practice of moving Parliament between Brussels and Strasbourg implies high costs for the European taxpayer, and reduces the effectiveness of parliamentary work. It undermines Parliament's credibility and political impact. The solution to this problem would be to concentrate Parliament's work at only one place. We call upon the Member States to consider a change of the Treaty, allowing the European Parliament to decide upon its own seat. In order to make this point we have voted for all amendments that aim to reduce the amount of time spent in Strasbourg and increase that in Brussels. – Mr President, I am firmly of the belief that people have a right to smoke, but my personal taste is that they should do so only in the privacy of their own homes. This rule can be applied equally to all recreational but dangerous drugs when no one but the person consuming the drug is likely to be affected. Certainly, there is none more dangerous than tobacco mixed with nicotine and other chemicals to guarantee a very high rate of addition and dependency. Governments have the task of ensuring that citizens have the information to make informed decisions and to exercise their free will. Earlier this year, the Canadian Government decided to strengthen its powers of communication with its citizens about tobacco products and overcome the intense lobbying and huge financial interests of the tobacco companies by requiring that cigarette packets in Canada carry pictures depicting some of the health consequences of smoking. Studies have shown that such pictures have a significantly greater effect in conveying concerns about smoking and the health consequences than any written warning. I ask Members of the House to support the amendment which has been tabled by John Bowis for the PPE-DE Group, Catherine Stihler for the Socialist Group and myself. This seeks to give the governments of European Union Member States strengthened powers to introduce such pictures on cigarette packets in their own countries. I emphasise that we are not insisting that these pictures should be imposed on every Member State. It simply gives Member States an additional right to introduce them. Let people have the freedom to choose whether or not to smoke. Let us be absolutely sure that they are informed when they make the decision one way or the other. – Mr President, my congratulations to Mrs Myller who I know has thought long and hard about this report. It seems to me that the debate comes down to this: do we believe that the Gothenburg Protocol was the best Member States can realistically achieve? I recognise that the Commission and environmental groups believe that in practice much more can be delivered but nonetheless some Member States have committed themselves to significant reductions in air pollution – though that is certainly not true of all of them. Some Member States seem to have gone into the negotiations with a few calculations on the back of an envelope and refused to compromise in any way to set themselves any realistic targets. Others have not even used the same methodology, the same basis of calculation as others. So the protocol in many ways is a nonsense. It can give us no confidence whatsoever. It is a messy political compromise and nothing more. I do not know how much more the Commissioner can achieve but we should be seeking reductions in air pollution and we should be giving her our support in her efforts to negotiate them. We should support this report and give her our backing. . – Regarding the Attwooll report on shark finning (A5-0043/2003) I voted against Amendment No 13 which allows for shark fins and body parts to be landed separately. The procedure renders futile attempts to monitor the numbers of sharks being caught. That the Commission and the Council will determine the final shape of the regulation should be a consolation. But sadly this is not the case. The proposed regulation originated with a petition presented to Environment Commissioner Wallström by the Shark Trust, and with a question I tabled in the Environment Committee. I feel sure that Commissioner Wallström will feel let down by DG Fisheries. That an official from this DG's Conservation Unit can dismiss the concerns with the words ‘I must trust much more the opinion of our fishing industry if it is for them to obtain good returns from their landings’ suggests to me that he has a strange idea of conservation. Perhaps Commissioner Fischler should put him in charge of inspecting abattoirs. European citizens seeking to protect fish species from extinction can have no confidence in a Commission DG which seems to have sold its soul to serve the interests of the Spanish fishing industry. – Mr President, like many British Members, I live in two worlds. One is the place that I read about in our national newspapers. Some of them, at least, feed their readers a diet of lies and half-truths to whip up hatred of all things European. And the other is here; the place which actually exists, where I find myself working amongst colleagues and others trying to make this continent a better place for its citizens. This draft directive belongs to the second of these two worlds. Its simple aim is to cut pollution and improve the air we breathe, which circulates from one country to another without respect to national boundaries. Who can be against that? The public information insisted upon in the draft directive is vital and gives the opportunity to back up legal measures with the right of the public to name and shame those governments which fail to take the necessary measures to comply with this directive. And, if we fail to achieve the targets for reducing benzene and carbon monoxide emissions, it will not be the fault of industry. They have done their part through technological change. It will be the fault of governments for not having the political courage to curb the use of cars in our cities. The Liberal Democrats welcome this measure. I anticipate us supporting all the amendments which have been tabled. We are pleased to be sending a strong and practical message to eurosceptics everywhere that we are in Europe to make this continent a better place for us all. – Mr President, this excellent directive will end the dumping of old cars, encourage recycling, and above all encourage manufacturers to design cars which can easily be recycled. Now who should pay the costs? Whatever system is adopted, ultimately the cost will be passed on to the consumer. The best way of achieving our environmental objectives is to make the manufacturers our instrument both for collecting the money and for disposing and recycling of the cars. The manufacturers have tricked Mr Florenz and Mr Lange into tabling amendments here which seriously weaken these proposals. Do not be fooled by the car manufacturers! If you want the full benefits of this directive use your vote to throw out these amendments. Mr President, notwithstanding the Commissioner's comments earlier today about her eyesight, I have decided to move forward in this rather vast auditorium so that I can at least see her for this evening's debate. Two years ago we approved the National Emissions Ceilings Directive and the Ozone in Ambient Air Directive, for which I was rapporteur. The former, in particular, set ambitious and legally binding targets for reductions in pollution and improvements in air quality. Before us now is a measure requiring the paint industry to make changes in its production methods which will help ensure that these targets are met, at least with regard to the reduction in volatile organic compounds – one of the precursors of ozone pollution. It is, as far as I am concerned – and I agree with the Commissioner – very definitely a measure that should address primarily the issue of air pollution rather than that of health problems associated with those who use paints. MEPs have been lobbied extensively by industry which, for the most part, wants less stringent restrictions on the use of VOCs than are proposed, and by environmentalists who argue the opposite case. I am pleased that in committee we had 110 votes and the Liberal Democrats were on the winning side in 103 of these, striking the balance between the two alternative views. In judging the conflicting amendments- I as a mere politician have in general put my trust in the Commission's air quality experts. I have been criticised by allegedly greener Members for doing this and for not being sufficiently ambitious by supporting the target limits proposed in the Annex. I have worked with the Commission's air quality experts on the ozone matter and I can assure the House that I did not find them unambitious – quite the opposite. On reflection, I have decided not to support amendments to raise the boiling point defining VOCs to 280°C, but to stick with the ecolabel standards. However, if the Commission can propose a modification or a derogation that allows the continuation of the rather good B[amp]Q labelling scheme in Britain, I would welcome some proposals along those lines. Finally, some of those environmentalists within the NGOs, who have called in effect for the complete abolition of solvent-based paints within just a couple of years, should go and spend a little time working in industry and return with a more balanced perspective. Environmentally speaking, I want us to move forward quickly but I am conscious that lemmings can move forward quickly and I do not want European industry to have to emulate them. – Madam President, I am sure all Members of the House are very happy to contribute to the Commissioner's aim of reducing the amount of legislation on the statute books, in this case by reducing some five or six directives to just one. Members of the House have been criticised by the European Environment Bureau for being less than ambitious – in particular for not insisting upon a phasing-out of phosphates across the European Union. We have, it is being said, sold out to the detergent manufacturers. Depending on the eye of the beholder a bath of hot water may be half-full or half-empty; I compare the changes proposed by the rapporteur, with cross-party support, as representing very much the half-full option. They represent a significant step forward, tightening up on requirements for the use of specialist detergents, improving on the proposals for labelling of potential allergens, ensuring that consideration is given to the development of non-animal tests and setting the basis for proposals to eliminate phosphates, taking full account of scientific evidence. These proposals are realistic and cautiously ambitious, they improve to my mind on the Commission's draft proposals. However, I am very conscious of the need to ensure that we secure cross-party support, if the powers of this House to improve environment legislation are to be brought to bear. We can sometimes make gestures at first reading, securing major amendments for radical reform, but they matter not at all if we cannot get agreement at second reading, if we cannot secure that qualified majority; and to make progress we need to take account both of our ambitions for the environment and of legitimate concerns for industry. On the day after we voted for the enlargement of the European Union, I am very conscious that this is going to be more difficult as time passes. We are at serious risk of having to move at the very slowest pace of the slowest Member, unless we can bring the House together at every opportunity. My biggest concern at the moment is that we have an increasing number of Member States who are simply failing to comply even with the legislation we already have on the statute books. In the United Kingdom there are currently nine environmental directives which should already have been transposed since the Commissioner came to office, not one of which has yet been put into practice. Ministers are going to the Council of Ministers, signing their names to documents agreed after co-decision and then simply not keeping their word. Playing the system, breaking the spirit of the rules. The problem therefore is not whether the bath of hot water is half-full or empty, but that too many Member States are not putting the plug into the bath in the first place. That should be the number-one concern, not only of the European Environment Bureau, but also of those who care in this House and in the Commission about ensuring that we move forward together to improve Europe's environment. – Mr President, I hope the Commissioner has caught up on her sleep after another succesful climate change conference. It all seemed very easy when the Commissioner first put the plan to us. She said that we use tens of thousands of chemicals in Europe. They are essential to our way of life but there is very little public information about them and the real fear is that some of them may be causing long-term damage to the environment and human health. So we must get the information, we must carry out the tests and, while keeping the good and maintaining a strong European chemicals industry, we must identify the bad and weed them out. But that was a few months ago. In the meantime all of us have learnt a great deal from the lobbyists about the difficulties of putting the policy into practice, as is well illustrated by the difficulty of identifying even the number of chemicals we are talking about. Sometimes we hear of 30 000, sometimes of 100 000 – quite a big difference. At least the chemical industry says it is in favour and supports the Commission's objectives, but it warns that the proposals are impractical, will increase bureaucracy and will be immensely costly. The testing regime, it says, will cause paralysis of the whole system, especially if we extend the requirements. Millions of animals will be killed painfully and perhaps unnecessarily in order to meet the testing requirements. All these concerns need to be taken into account. When the draft directive comes before us, I will be listening very carefully to industry's complaints. I recognise that in environmental matters we often hear industry crying wolf, but even so we must ensure that new requirements placed upon the companies are realistic and practical and that they enhance rather than damage a very important business. This is only a White Paper. In making recommendations, I support Mrs Schörling in asking the Commission to strengthen its environmental commitments, rather than relax them. But in reality we will probably end up following the Council of Ministers in passing the buck back to the Commission, asking you to find a way around the obstacle course and giving an absolute guarantee that we will criticise you, whatever proposals you come up with. – Mr President, it may well be that 100 years ago our cities resounded to the noise of iron wheels and iron hooves bouncing off cobbled stones. I suspect that made a hell of a din. Nonetheless the impression is that our society has become noisier with more machinery, hi-fis and stereos, planes, trains and, above all, motorways. I am all in favour of cutting noise and making life more pleasant, peaceful and calm. I support the Commission's proposals for common measurements so that we all know what we are looking at and what we are hearing across the European Union. I support the idea of noise mapping and I support legislation under single market rules to introduce limits on noise from new equipment being introduced and sold throughout the European Union. But I am opposed to the Union seeking noise limits on installations in any individual Member State. I do so, as I have argued strongly in committee, on the grounds of subsidiarity, in the belief that decisions should be taken at the lowest practical level. In almost every case in the Committee on the Environment, we deal with issues which should rightly be dealt with at European Union level, because they concern matters which affect more than one Member State – transboundary issues. But today I arrived in Parliament, I opened my window in the office in the Tower and I could not hear Strasbourg airport, I could not even hear the railway. All I could hear was someone shouting down in the courtyard. I do not regard noise from airports as a transboundary issue and I am pleased that the committee rejected a number of the amendments which were tabled. I will be urging my group to reject Amendment No 34 here because it still implies that noise limits should be introduced. Mr de Roo commented on Amendment No 36 that the eight-hour sleep limit is essential for everyone. That may be the case. It may also be the case that a cup of cocoa and a bedtime story are essential for everyone but this is not something which should be done at EU level. We should not be setting standards for these things. What is fascinating about this debate, as it was in committee and here now, is that for the best possible reasons – the improvement of health and enhancing the environment – measures have been suggested to us which represent a sort of creeping centralisation which, at the end of the day, makes the European Union seem bossy and interfering to far too many of our constituents. We should take this opportunity, and indeed every opportunity, to put into practice our belief that wherever possible we should be applying strictly the principles of subsidiarity and making sure that when we take measures on behalf of the environment at European Union level it is because they will genuinely make a difference to individuals and cannot be done by individual Member States. – Mr President, one of the joys of spending time in Belgium and France is the pleasure of these countries' chocolate. It is wonderful, but millions of people in Europe also enjoy the British product. None of them come to any harm in the process. Whatever its content they are happy to call this product chocolate. It is insulting for us to play semantic games about the definition of this word. The citizens we represent are not fools. They can tell the difference between different varieties of chocolate and they have to be allowed to decide for themselves. I have no doubt that this compromise will help the overall market increase. The harsh fact is that none of us, Belgians, French or British, are paying the cocoa growers a fair price for their efforts and the contrast between our enjoyment of this luxury product and their poverty is shameful. – Mr President, this legislation has often been referred to as the lawnmowers directive. The fact that MEPs are spending their time discussing lawnmowers will no doubt confirm the impression which too many of our constituents have about the value of our work. If so, they should think again. The blue smoke from generators, lawnmowers, pumps and so on tells its own story. The cumulative effect contributes significantly to air pollution. So, in contrast to the last debate where I argued strongly that we should emphasise the principle of subsidiarity, this is a matter which is clearly trans-boundary and for both environmental and single market reasons should be dealt with by this Parliament. On the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy we all get used to industry representatives coming up to us and saying ‘don't do that, the time-scale is too short, the technology is not available’. So it has been a pleasure while this directive was passing through Parliament to be lobbied by one company – Honda, to which Mr Goodwill referred – which believes that the standards being proposed by the Commission do not go far enough. I realise it has its own reasons for this position. It has made the investment. It can meet the standards and it wants a competitive advantage over those who have not done the same. But is that not what we want overall? Is it not a good thing for manufacturers to be competing on the basis of setting the highest possible environmental standards? I am sorry the committee has not accepted some of the amendments I tabled at an earlier stage. I am sorry also that too many companies in my own country have failed to look to the future and want to continue producing dirty, polluting equipment instead of investing in the future and setting the highest standards so that they can compete properly across the world. Here in Europe we should be aiming to set these higher standards subject to the available technology. I agree with what Mr Goodwill said about chainsaws and the difficulty of reaching those standards insofar as that piece of equipment is concerned. But I also want to resist, as Mr Lange said, the Commission's proposals for averaging and banking. So far as I am concerned it allows manufacturers to continue to produce engines which do not meet the highest air quality standards and perhaps to even put new ones on the market. After all, we are not saying that the changes have to be made now. A transition period is built into the proposal to give time for re-equipment. Amendment No 18 suggests that some financial support and incentives might be given to manufacturers. I look forward to hearing the sound of my neighbour mowing her grass – and indeed my grass too, I hope – knowing that the air will be free from pollution and that the birds will not cough and splutter in the trees around my home. – Mr President, as a representative for Cumbria – the area most affected by this disease in Europe – to think back 20 months is to remember the distress of farmers who, in many cases, saw their animals being slaughtered – although there was no evidence that they were infected – and, in particular, the distress of those who made their living from tourism in the Lake District. All too often the cries of those people whose economy depended on tourists and whose contribution to the economy was worth six times that of the farmers went totally unheeded. We saw the pictures on our television sets: visitors were turned away because of the mass culling; animal welfare concerns were being disregarded; the fires were making a nonsense of the policies adopted by this European Union in its attempts to address the concerns about dioxins spreading in our atmosphere. People were really upset by the illogicality of the situation: mountains, hills and footpaths were closed for no reason. At the same time, you could walk along a country road and the sheep and lambs would stick their heads out through the fences. People felt a sense of anger and despair. This must never happen again. I am glad that this report makes clear that the UK Government's policy was wrong, and that we should be thinking about emergency vaccination if this situation occurs again. I also believe that, in order to take account of the wider considerations and in view of the relatively small role which farming has in our economy these days, we also need to look at preventive vaccination as a long-term solution to difficulties of this kind. – Mr President, concerns about the effects of GMOs on human health are in the minds of many of us overshadowed by doubts about their effects upon other species of plants or animal life and about the control of the world's seed bank by a handful of companies. But it is animal and human health which is the issue before us and the ELDR Group is united in its belief that products need to be clearly labelled so that consumers can make proper choices. We are, however, divided about the clearest way of achieving this result. A majority accept the Commission proposals but want products with more than 0.5% of GMOs or less if practicable, to be labelled as such. Traceability rules should be established so that this is done even when the presence of GMO DNA cannot be identified. But we risk overwhelming the consumer if we label every foodstuff made from products derived from animals fed on GMOs. I am opposed to steps being taken which will eventually lead only to GMO-free or to non-GMO products being labelled if such a thing is possible, because this will result in normal foods being classified as special and transfer the burden of proof and costs away from GMO producers. We may have to do this eventually but not yet. GM crops have the potential to bring major benefits, but they also pose threats to the environment. Rules for trade are needed, but I will not be sorry if consumer preference slows the pace of GMO development and allows us more time to assess the full consequences of their use. Mr President, the problem here is that Member States fail to enforce the rules in far too many instances. Therefore, there are horrific cases of animal cruelty and far too many cases of animals – living creatures – simply being treated like so many nuts and bolts on a manufacturing production line. The Commission does not have a police force, and I recognise the attempts being made by the Commissioner to try and introduce a system that is more capable of being enforced. However, that is no way near enough. Inevitably horrific practices will continue to occur. We will find many instances of dead animals being left amongst live animals on journeys taking many days. It is now some 150 years since refrigeration was introduced, which allowed beef from Argentina to be imported into Europe. It is simply incredible that all this time later we are still transporting live animals huge distances within our continent. The time is going to come when we will impose a ban on this, when carcasses only will be permitted. Refrigeration permits this. We should introduce a ban on the transport of live animals at the earliest possible moment. – President, this Parliament, by huge cross-party majorities, has made clear that it will no longer accept that animals should be made to suffer for the sake of developing yet more products to flatter human vanity. It is a moral issue; human health will be protected, because after the deadlines for the end of animal testing, new cosmetic products simply cannot be put on the market until alternative testing methods are in place. This is the seventh amendment to the original directive; each time the deadline drew near an extension of time was granted to the industry, so incentives to invest in the development of alternatives were removed. We are today drawing a line that must not again be shifted. Animal welfare groups are unhappy with the outcome of the negotiations between Parliament and the Council, but I hope they recognise that real progress has been made. The Commission's proposal has been transformed, there will be a complete ban on animal testing within the EU and a ban on the sale of cosmetics tested on animals outside the EU, six years after entry into force. Month after month, ministers told us that such a marketing ban would be contrary to WTO rules, but these objections were at last overcome during our middle-of-the-night negotiations. I pay tribute to our rapporteur Dagmar Roth-Berendt, and I thank our chief lobbyists Marlou Heinen of the RSPCA, Emily McIvor of BUAV, and Charles Laroche of Unilever who presented the acceptable face of an industry many have grown to mistrust. There are practical steps now to be taken. In particular the authorisation procedures for new testing methods must be accelerated. Pressure to develop alternatives must now be put on the chemicals and pharmaceuticals industries, which use the same tests. The cosmetics industry should recognise the strength of feeling in this Parliament. The directive permits no postponement of the deadlines, and the Commission must understand that if it comes back in a few years' time with proposals for new legislation to extend the time limits yet again it will meet with a very hostile response. Madam President, no sooner had agreement been reached with the Council, than Greenpeace, the WWF and the RSPB were denouncing it as inadequate and calling on Members to throw it out. Some Members may vote against it when the time comes, but they will probably come from amongst those who tend to put the interests of industry before those of the environment. I am not really sure whether WWF counts them amongst its friends. I took a certain malevolent delight, especially with the election approaching, in our Green rapporteur having been denounced by Greenpeace for his work, but personally I congratulate him. He has done a great job in keeping all sides of this House together. Of course the agreement is weak, but we have to start somewhere. The reality is that we know there was resistance, even amongst some Member States, towards the implementation of these measures. I am glad that the EU is still trying to lead the world on the whole issue of climate change. However, the real issue is, firstly, that we have to get some sort of agreement up and running and, secondly, that we have to move forward. I am concerned about what will happen if the Kyoto Protocol does not come into force. That is the key question that the Commissioner is seeking to address this week with colleagues. Can we persuade Russia – the crucial element in the equation – to sign up to the Kyoto Protocol and bring it into force? I do not like having to give in to ransom demands. However, for once, it might be a price worth paying. – Mr President, I should like first to congratulate the United States of America, the puppet masters at this convention. Eighteen months after they bombed hell out of Afghanistan, the heroin crop in that country is now greater than ever. What a brilliant strategy the Americans must have! It is hard to find anyone who believes that the existing drugs policies are a success. It would be a ridiculous claim to make, were they to do so. So it should simply be common sense to evaluate current policies, assess their effectiveness and consider alternative options. And common sense it might be to the majority of people; but not, I fear, to the delegates to this convention. They might as well all be in the pay of the drug barons, because the effect of their determination to pursue the policies of prohibition will simply be to line the pockets of those same criminals, discarding more intelligent approaches which could reduce the real harm to individuals and to the rest of society. The truth is that prohibition is not the solution to the problems, it is the principal cause of them. It is prohibition which creates the profits of the drug barons. It is prohibition which kills users by denying them the information they need about the drugs they put into their bodies. It is prohibition which feeds the cancer of corruption which does so much harm to our society. My view – and my hope – is that prohibition will one day be replaced by government regulation; but I do not say that this is a policy which should be imposed on every nation. I say to my Swedish colleagues and to the United States that they should be free to develop the drugs policies they think appropriate for their own nations, but that others should be free to develop their own strategies to explore more effective solutions to deal with this terribly difficult problem. – Mr President, every time there is a disaster of this kind people say it must never happen again. In reality we can never stop accidents happening at sea, but it is incumbent upon us all to learn the lessons whenever an incident of this kind takes place and apply those lessons to reduce risks in future. The "Erika" incident was serious especially for the people of Brittany most closely affected, but it was devastating for the wildlife of much of Europe. Some say that it is the worst accident that has ever befallen the bird life of this part of Europe. The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds believes that as many as 400,000 birds, perhaps mainly guillemots, may have died. The pictures many of us will have seen of oil-soaked birds being put down by veterinary officials were both distressing and tragic. We all want the highest standards for ships whatever flag they may be flying. We need to enforce the regulations and ensure that the "polluter pays" principle is applied so that financial penalties and some incentives are used to put pressure on both ship operators and oil companies to ensure that best practice is introduced. I agree with every word the Commissioner said in her remarks, but the question is, how long will it take to ensure that measures are introduced to deal with the problem in the way she proposes? As a politician she needs to remind her officials how difficult it would be were she to have to come back to this Parliament in a year, were a similar incident, just as devastating, to take place, if some of the measures she has proposed today were simply still remaining as fine words and she had not had the chance to put them into practice. The thought of an incident of this kind occurring in the near future should concentrate her mind and the minds of her officials wonderfully. . – Mr President, a friend who used to work for a leading wildlife conservation NGO tells me that it was a depressing experience each morning to read her e-mails detailing the loss of habitats and new threats to the survival of species across the world. I can understand that. So it is a pleasure to acknowledge that not every environmental problem is beyond resolution and that, in some instances as least, we are capable of turning the tide. Such is the case with air pollution. The evidence is that now, at least in some cities and towns across Europe, the air we breathe is perhaps purer than at any time since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution. Problems remain. It is claimed that air pollution still contributes to more premature deaths than traffic accidents, but progress is being made. Ground-level ozone is a pollutant which still severely affects the health of many of our citizens. It contributes to problems of asthma in children – now said to affect as many as one in ten children in the United Kingdom alone – and to breathing difficulties in the elderly. In severe circumstances people die. Government studies in my country suggest that ozone may lead to the premature death of 12 500 people each year. We are all well aware of the problems experienced in some cities in Europe, such as Athens, where the problem is intensified by particular climatic conditions. Pollution has further economic consequences, by reducing crop yields and damaging trees. European legislation plays an increasing role in setting tighter standards and curbing pollution. Nothing better illustrates this than the need for concerted action on ozone. It is created by a chemical reaction between sunlight and oxides of nitrogen and volatile organic compounds derived mostly from vehicle emissions and petrol distribution. It is often formed miles from the source of the problem. So it is a classic trans-boundary pollutant requiring trans-boundary action at European level. The national emissions ceiling directive will provide the framework for reductions in key air pollutants. This directive concerns the action which Member States should take locally to deal with the particular problem of ozone. At first reading I welcomed the Commission's proposals to set a target value encouraging Member States not to permit ozone to exceed the World Health Organisation's guidelines of more than 20 days a year; to alert the public if local health risks are high; and to compare the performance of different countries. But I argued that the proposals were not demanding enough. Parliament has made a number of changes and, of the 19 amendments we agreed on, the Council has accepted ten of the minor ones in full and another four in part. The Council has also decided that it wants the target for the maximum number of exceedances to be 25 rather than 20 days. This does not sound too bad a compromise. Perhaps I am just a bit cynical in suggesting that it is too easy for ministers to agree tough targets which are not legally binding. Parliament should be taking steps now to ensure that the final shape of the legislation places firm obligations on Member States to achieve the objectives they claim they want to achieve. I want Member States to be required to meet the target, save where it is physically impossible for them to do so. I want them to work towards a date by which the long-term objective of never having ozone levels exceeding WHO guidelines will be achieved. I want them quickly to implement short-term action plans if ozone levels exceed double the WHO recommendations, and I want them to provide the Commission with information of a standard which enables comparison to be made between the performance of different Member States, so that the public can determine which countries are making a real effort and which are not. In saying this, I recognise the need to take into account the fact that one country may not be responsible for the pollution which affects it. I also understand that meteorological conditions vary. The north west of England, for example, may generate more traffic fumes than many places elsewhere in Europe but, because we are not blessed with too much sunlight, ozone is less of a problem to us than it may be in Spain. I do not wish, in particular, to place too onerous a burden upon Mediterranean countries. But Parliament needs to adopt a strong position now, in order that the final agreement we reach with the Council reflects the need for Member States to take some real action. I thank colleagues in other parties for working with me to try and ensure that Parliament's position commands a large majority. I thank Parliament's staff and, in particular, my assistant, Vikki Phillips, who has made a very considerable contribution to this process over the past year. We have an opportunity to make a contribution to the process of reducing pollution and cleaning the air we breathe. I hope Parliament will give its support to the proposals in this report and the compromises agreed between the political parties, and that we play our part in achieving what could be another success story for the European environment. – Mr President, we should recognise that this report is a celebration of the fact that the war against rabies is being won across Europe. This is a disease which has filled people with fear and horror for many years and it is a delight to see the reality of the decline in statistics which shows that the disease is now being eradicated. I am also pleased, as Mr Whitehead has indicated, that the suffering and grief felt both by pets and by pet owners when animals have had to be put into quarantine for lengthy periods of time is now being replaced by passports and tattoos, so this is good news. On a technical point, I look forward to hearing the Commission's response on the amendments which have been moved about the legal basis for this directive. I am also delighted that the basis for the European proposals are those which have already been applied in Britain. As Mr Whitehead has said, I have learnt, like he, a great deal more about ferrets than I knew a month ago. I am sure the Commission has too. I am sure in fact that the Commissioner is a great ferret fancier: if he has not got a house already full of ferrets then I am sure that the many newspaper articles about the virtues of ferrets have encouraged him to fill his house with ferrets I have no doubt they will make charming and affectionate pets and I look forward to them taking their place alongside cats and dogs at the earliest opportunity. The decision we made in committee, just a couple weeks ago, about whether ferrets should be included on the list and have passports or not, was one of the most difficult that I have ever made. The reality is that ferrets seem to have caused no particular problems. One French ferret apparently seems to have been the cause of all the concern about whether ferrets can cause rabies. I am sorry about this, but I look forward to a situation where the blood test for rabies antibodies can be verified and approved by the Standing Veterinary Committee and the scope of the regulation can be extended to encompass ferrets at the earliest opportunity. In the meantime, we have to accept that if we are to put the fight against rabies as our first priority, then ferrets should not be included on the list at the present time. But I look forward to ferrets having the right to roam across Europe, but not just yet. – Mr President, as we look at the world's environmental problems, some of them, such as the loss of habitats and biodiversity, seem to leave us powerless of achieving any solution. But it is not all gloom and doom, and within Europe, we are capable of banning the use of chemicals which are toxic, persistent and bio-accumulative and using science to develop safer alternatives, and this directive is good news for that reason. The Water Framework Directive was my first experience of the dynamics of the conciliation process between Parliament and the Council with the assistance of the Commission, and I think that Parliament can claim credit for introducing the category of priority hazardous substances which this Directive now puts into practice, but it is indeed a first step on a long road. I know the Commissioner has herself many times referred to the sheer number of chemicals still being developed and being put on the market, and suspicion is attached to many substances, not identified as yet, and the process of identification and elimination needs to progress rapidly. Can I refer in concluding to the institutional relationship? The Presidency has indicated to group spokesmen that it would like to fast-track this process and see a rapid resolution, and I think that is welcomed by all parties. We would obviously like to see action sooner rather than later, but hastily arranged meetings with no time for proper discussion and coordination between parties are not the best way of making laws or securing agreement so I hope we succeed and are able to achieve a vote today which the Council can endorse within a matter of weeks rather than years; but if we do, I suspect that it will be more a matter of luck than design, and I hope we can bear this in mind if we are able to work together with the other institutions of the European Union and achieve progress more effectively and rapidly in future years. – Mr President, those of us who survived the conciliation procedure for the water framework directive must be delighted that here we have an issue which is entirely clear-cut and easily understandable. The first issue is that we want equal and effective enforcement of environmental legislation across the European Union and we must all agree to that principle. The question obviously is why we have not had that before. Why have the Commissioner's predecessors not brought forward proposals before now and why are the proposals now introduced so miserably weak? There is also a question for Member States. What have they been doing signing up to environmental legislation if in reality they do not have the means to check properly that it has been carried out and have no intention of ensuring that it is properly enforced? I have chemical companies in my constituency in the north-west of England. Some of them, I am sorry to say, discharge polluting materials into air and water. They get inspected. Action is taken. They are forced to clean up their act. They pay the price for that. But they are competing with chemical companies elsewhere in this European Union which are not having to carry out those checks, which are not having to pay the price and they are not able to compete therefore on a level playing field. It is simply unfair. The second issue is the clear conflict here between the Parliament and the Council. Any student who wants to understand conciliation procedure or codecision procedure has a nice straightforward case study here. We have codecision powers but we have the threat from the Council that if we do not fall into line then they will abandon the whole legislation. Well, they might as well, as Mrs Jackson has said. The message for the French Presidency is that we want tangible progress. We do not want to see this abandoned. There is room for compromise, presumably over the implementation date. All the institutions in the European Union want the laws enforced properly. It is time to give these warm but rather woolly sentiments some real meaning and action. – Madam President, you will recall that at the last part-session I raised the plight of the British democracy campaigner, James Mawdsley, who was held illegally by the Burmese authorities. You promised to convey your concern, and subsequently this House passed a resolution condemning his imprisonment. That was part of a concerted diplomatic effort and the House will be pleased to have learned that Mr Mawdsley was released by the Burmese authorities last week. I should like to take this opportunity to thank you and Members of this House for the part you played in seeing this process through to a successful conclusion. I hope that we can return before too long to the question of the thousands of other people who are political prisoners in Burma and the lack of democracy which afflicts that country. – Mr President, the ecological disaster in the Danube reminds us of how closely linked all the countries of Europe are and how important water is to us all. Discharges from chemical factories in my own constituency in the north-west of England will end up on the beaches of mainland Europe. This brings home the connections which bind us together. This framework directive is intended to paint the broad brushstrokes of the policy for the next decades and there has been much panic over the details. It is important for us to remember that this is a framework. These brushstrokes are indeed very broad. It is easy for individual countries, for individual sectors of industry, to escape the effects which have been painted to us in recent days. There are many opportunities to hide. The reality is that the details of this legislation will be set out in daughter directives in months and years to come. That is the time to debate some of these problems of detail. The broad principles are surely ones we should be able to accept – the broad principles that we wish to reduce hazardous waste leaking into the groundwater, the broad principles that we should be aiming to ensure that chemicals, which we all need in society in all circumstances, should not be finding their way into our water system. There is a chemical factory in the north-west which wrote to me to say that we must vote against this legislation. I would have to ask them what chemicals they are putting into the water supply at the moment and why they are not broadcasting to all the residents in that area exactly what they are doing. This is something that they prefer to avoid doing. The principle also concerns water charging. The basic understanding which many of us now share is that we need to introduce environmental taxation to encourage conservation, to use the carrot-and-stick approach to make best use of our assets so that we do not add to the pollution or loss of a valuable resource like water. I want to refer to the political position here. The common position has weakened the stand taken by Parliament at first reading. Some of the NGOs would say that the directive as now framed is worse than useless. It is a retrograde step. This is an opportunity for us to improve the situation. We need to get ourselves into a position of conciliation. We have seen vote after vote lost. Measure after measure has come out of the Environment Committee. We have failed to achieve a qualified majority. Our attempt to improve the environment of Europe has failed. We need to get into that conciliation position. We need, at the end of the day, to ensure that we end up with a sensible, balanced policy of real improvements at a reasonable cost. – Mr President, now I know at last how European laws are really made. They are made in the Council of Ministers building by exhausted people shouting at each other in corridors in the middle of the night – and the rapporteur and the Commissioner will know exactly to what I am referring. If I am asked to give an example of the way in which the principles of sustainable development can be put into practice, then this directive may well be it. If I am asked about the burden of new regulations which Parliament sometimes places upon industry in the cause of environmental improvement, I will proclaim this directive as an example of the way in which industry and Parliament can work together. It is a splendid piece of legislation. It is not the end, but it is a good beginning and much credit goes to both the Commission and our rapporteur. I am particularly pleased with the principle of individual producer responsibility, which has been so firmly embraced. Within the last week we have seen two good illustrations of the way in which industry is responding to it professionally and effectively. Four of the major manufacturers of electrical goods, including our chief lobbyist, Electrolux, have teamed up to develop a common approach to waste management which aims to be both innovative and cost efficient. And the mobile phone manufacturers of the world have agreed to cooperate to ensure the environmentally sound management of their end-of-life products. My principal concern relates to – and I echo Mrs Doyle's words – the implementation of the directive. Just a few weeks ago government representatives in that room in the Council committed themselves to this legislation at the conciliation meeting. It is all supposed to be transposed into national law in about 18 months' time. But judging from our experience with the end-of-life vehicles directive, that will not be the case so far as many Member States are concerned. The UK Government has still not transposed Mr Florenz's legislation. I hope the Commission will take advantage of the European Convention to present some proposals to change the enforcement procedures to stop Member States getting away with breaking their commitments and playing the system. Finally, the text of Article 4 was the matter I referred to in my opening remarks. I tabled the draft to try and deal with the problem of printer cartridges, many of which are not being recycled for anti-competitive reasons and are instead ending up in poisonous dumps in China. I hear that, sadly, the UK Government is trying to wriggle out of the intended requirement to prevent producers from making their reuse difficult by claiming that these products are consumables. It will probably take a British judge to make them recognise the obvious truth, that a cartridge fitted with an electronic chip is an item of electronic equipment. I hope that other Member States will take the lead in this and in other respects in putting this directive fully into practice, and show by example just what a commendable piece of legislation this directive will prove to be. I wish you and members of the conciliation delegation, and the Commissioner and her staff, a merry Christmas. – Mr President, I still have three concrete questions which puzzle me concerning this troublesome issue of the recruitment agency of the EU. First: What was the point of solemnly proclaiming the Charter of Fundamental Rights, should the Council be unwilling to implement it? Second: What sort of message does he think this sends to the citizen of the existing Union and also of the applicant countries? Third: When does he expect the matter to be finally and satisfactorily resolved? – May I welcome the reform of the Council itself and especially the agreed programme designed to improve the performance and coordinating role of the General Affairs Council. The extension of European Union competence into the defence field accentuates the need for improvements of the working of the Council. It also requires the European Parliament to extend its own scope to the defence field, especially when the Western European Union Assembly is closed down, so that proper democratic scrutiny of this sensitive and controversial field will be provided. What plans does the Presidency have to start a dialogue with Parliament upon security and defence questions, and when will the Presidency's Minister of Defence make a statement upon the development of a common policy for European security and defence? I should be extremely grateful for a response from the Presidency upon these questions. – Madam President, my group welcomes the decision. We regret, in fact, the delay of four months now in Parliament bringing the report to a conclusion. A failure or further delay would be catastrophic for Parliament’s reputation with its public. The centrepiece of the decision is Article 2. This will avoid a potential van Buitenen affair emerging from inside Parliament’s own ranks. The final clause of Article 2 is slightly cryptic, and questions will arise about its meaning. It is important for us to recognise that under the Rules of Procedure of Parliament the information acquired inside a temporary Committee of Inquiry is to remain secret only if it contributes to the writing of the inquiry report. We must acknowledge that any knowledge acquired that is superfluous to the inquiry or gratuitous should be disclosed immediately. – Mr President, the prosecution of the people's democratic party stems from disturbances at their party congress as long ago as 1996. Since then, the PKK has declared a ceasefire and Turkey has started its long programme of political reform. In particular the revision of Article 69 seems to be designed to expand the scope of party political activity within the political system. The reform should be taken further quickly so that no regionalist party, nor those of mainly Kurdish origin, should be under threat. It would be a very good signal of the resolve of Turkey to carry on with European integration should the Supreme Court decide this case at the very moment when Turkey takes its seats inside the Convention. The banning of the Fazilet party last year was a poor signal. If there are serious allegations against persons for connections with terrorism they should be charged, but the party itself should be saved for parliamentary democracy. – Mr President, the Commission and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered the question of the legal basis extremely carefully. This regulation is drafted as a temporary measure before the Treaty of Nice comes into force and I find it absolutely shameful that the nationalists in this Parliament are seeking to suppress the growth of proper, credible and legitimate transnational political parties. – Madam President, this proposal will probably succeed as a transitional measure to regularise what is at present a flawed system of financing our fledgling political parties. I agree, however, with some of the critics who say that the proposal in front of us will not provide a lasting statute for the development of campaigning political parties, which are an essential factor should our vibrant transnational European parliamentary democracy flourish. We are proposing one amendment that will improve the proposal, which is to grant the political parties legal personality under European Union law. To leave things as they are at present, with 15 competing national jurisdictions, will be a cause of confusion and future problems. We should sort this out now and address the other outstanding issues more seriously and more successfully once the Treaty of Nice comes into force. We also welcome the compromise amendment, which lowers the threshold for the registration of political parties from a third to a quarter, which is in the interest of both fairness and pluralism. – Mr President, the President of the Council says that she always appreciates the trips she makes to the Parliament, so it is rather extraordinary that she failed during her speech to respond to any of the proposals of Parliament for the IGC. This rather reinforces the press reports, which give cause for concern, that the European Council has chosen a narrow agenda for the IGC and a merely voluntary charter. If that is so, it says a lot about the way the Union is squaring up for the challenge of enlargement. An IGC that failed to amend the way the treaties can be revised in future and in policy sectors to soften them would be an IGC that threatened to paralyse the Union when it tries to modernise itself following the accession of new Member States. An IGC that failed to grant the citizen improved access to the European Court means a charter will be more of a public relations exercise than a powerful re-definition of European citizenship. And a Union that is frightened to reinforce its liberal and parliamentary character will be an unattractive Union for the acceding Member States and an unreliable player upon the world stage. Where Europe stops should not be a question of geography but of liberal values and democratic practices, clearly defined and brightly illuminated so that the candidate countries know where the European journey will bring them. Mr President, the Taoiseach says that he believes that the principle of the dual-majority system is now accepted. But it seems to me that it is not yet accepted in practice because one sees the various ministers trying to supplement the dual-majority formula with further qualifying clauses which would permit a specified number of Member States to form a blocking minority. My strong advice to the presidency would be to reject such superfluous complications. It would be far better to achieve a simple formula, say 55/55, which dispenses with the need for a third key. Europe cannot be built upon mathematical equations, but on political trust. – Madam President, firstly I praise the European Council for accepting the draft Charter as definitive. From what we know of the performance of the Prime Ministers and Presidents at Biarritz on the trickiest questions of Treaty reform, the Charter will probably become the greatest trophy at Nice. So why is the French Presidency trying to suppress the question of the installation of the Charter within the Treaty? President Chirac, with his usual capacity for surprise, said in his press statement that the Charter’s legal status would be a question for the Swedish Presidency. What does that mean? What on earth is Sweden supposed to achieve that France cannot? Surely it is for the European Council at Nice to consider whether the Charter should be inserted inside the Treaty. That is what the IGC is for. I would urge the French Presidency quickly to reassess its position on that central point. Mr President, it has been a great privilege to serve in a Parliament that has made such great progress in delivering for Europe the constitutional settlement that it needs. Parliament has become now an assured player in the constitutive process and we have assisted Europe to answer definitively the old question about whether the Union could widen and deepen at the same time. The answer is certainly 'yes'. We expect the European Council now to show the political will to bring the IGC to a quick and successful conclusion and to draft the durable, efficient and effective system of democratic government that we need to strengthen the Union and its place in world affairs. However, it is vital that Parliament, which has played such a crucial part in the IGC so far, does not fade at the final phase. President Cox and our representatives, Mr Brok and Mr Hänsch, must carry on playing a full part in the negotiations and resist any weakening of Parliament's powers of codecision and assent. There are some worrying signs in this respect and Commissioner Vitorino is quite right to warn us. Why, for example, is the Irish presidency suddenly seeking in its latest proposals to remove Parliament's power of codecision with respect to the Structural Funds? Perhaps Minister Roche could explain. If the Council wishes to encumber itself with unanimity upon financial questions, that is its own problem, but it cannot be permitted to evade parliamentary accountability. I wish to support the committee's request that, should there be a crisis at the IGC, the President should call a special meeting of the Conference of Presidents. Despite our dispersal across 25 electoral campaigns, we would be able to reassemble quickly to reinforce the President's negotiating position. Please remember that a negative assessment by Parliament on the final conclusions of the IGC would certainly scupper referendum campaigns wherever they spring up. Mr President, the tone of the debate in this House is clear: most of us want to assist the Irish presidency to reach a quick settlement on the Constitution through our political contacts, and with our experience of these questions we can provide both practical and moral support. The scheduling of the work of the IGC is extremely important because, if it is scheduled and programmed properly, pressure will grow on the Member States to take more seriously their collective duty to provide leadership for the European Union. Why not pencil into the calendar an IGC summit meeting before 1 May? The manner in which the new Commission President is chosen will serve as a further way of restoring political faith in Europe. This is a function of the presidency on which the Taoiseach was curiously discreet. How that person is chosen will be a factor in the fight to restore and strengthen the political authority of the Commission. It is not simply a question of finding a single candidate. All the party political groups should find their own champion, and the procedure provided for by the Convention could easily and simply be brought into early use by us all in June and July. – Mr President, I can assure Mr Poos that we understand perfectly what he is proposing and it is the inclusion of the second part of Amendment No 9 that we specifically object to. Mr President, thank you for stealing one of the points I was just about to make. I thank you for your fight to save parliamentary prerogatives in the matter of the financial system. On a personal note, I am most grateful for Mrs Berès' moral support. However, the Conference of Presidents has made a decision, which I accept, and I offer my full support to Mr Brok, whose work and qualities we know. The Council presidency has confirmed its intention of presenting a global compromise before the 'conclave' meeting in Naples. One hopes that this is a wise decision. Experience would suggest that it is not at the level of foreign ministers, still less officials, that the final deal will be cut. The great patriotic questions that so obsess some of our Member States, such as a percentage point here or there on their voting weights in the Council, can only be resolved at 4 a.m. on Sunday, 14 December, by the top guys. What the foreign ministers appear to be clever at is unpicking the essential ingredients of the Convention's proposals. Yesterday several of them challenged the famous  clause, which permits the steady development of the Constitution and of a decrease in the number of exceptional, non-normal decision-making procedures. But there have been many previous examples of this  approach in previous and existing Treaties. Therefore, their consolidation into a single general clause is clear, simple and straightforward. The presidency is quite right in standing firm on this issue and the issue of the Foreign Minister and defending the proposals from the Convention. It knows that the European Parliament is right behind it. We also support the efforts of the presidency to open up the issue of the future revision clause. However, there can be no trade-off between the two, the  clause and the softer revision procedures needed for a Constitution to work well and fluently in practice. . The Liberal Democrat delegation did not vote with the rest of the ELDR Group on the Schmidt report. We voted against Amendments Nos 1 to 13 and the proposal, as we wished the proposal in its current form to be withdrawn. Our reason for doing so is that we believe VAT on postal services, especially in respect of securing a universal service for packages below two kilogrammes, is a matter best left to national governments under the principle of subsidiarity. However, we remain open to considering future proposals aimed at ensuring greater competition. – Mr President, I thank Mr Solana for his extremely interesting statement. But reading between the lines, as one should, it is fairly clear that not much progress is being made to reform the Council. Perhaps it is quite unrealistic to think that there could be progress before the problems are dramatised with the presence of 25 or so ministers at the table. But, frankly, I find it extraordinary that Mr Solana and Mr Blair and several others can float the idea of creating an executive committee formed out of the Council presidency without referring to the role of the European Commission. It would be best to be blunt here. The imposition of a board of directors of the Council would steal the Commission's right of initiative and destroy its critical role in identifying and expressing the common interests of all the Member States. It is only the Commission that can ensure the equality of all the states. As to the question of the presidency, no debate could be complete without considering whether it would be the proper thing, in the end, to let the Commission chair the ordinary meetings of the Council, while letting Mr Solana chair the Foreign Affairs Council, preserving the routine six-month circus for the European Council itself. That might be the most appropriate approach to ensuring tight coordination and continuity within the Council. Finally, we should refer to the Byzantine tangle of comitology. The efficiency of the Union will be greatly improved as soon as the Commission is granted sufficient executive authority to act without the constant interference of the Council. So reform has much further to travel before the Convention will be satisfied that we have grappled satisfactorily with all the important questions. – Mr President, these three reports generally give a strong endorsement of the function of the office of Ombudsman and also of its current incumbent and my group warmly congratulates Mr Söderman on his work. It is clear that the Ombudsman, reinforced by the Charter, plays an increasingly meaningful and forceful role in protecting the citizen from abuses of executive authority. We have tabled one amendment to Article 3 of the Statute, which would bring Members of the Commission and Members of Parliament as well as members of the agencies of the Union, such as Europol, beneath the purview of the Ombudsman. The Commission opposes this reform on the grounds that it implies political interference, but we believe that the Ombudsman is perfectly capable of distinguishing between maladministration and defective politics. The right to inquire into the conduct of those supremely responsible for administration is an essential part of good governance and a necessary complement to, not a substitute for, the work of this Parliament in exercising democratic accountability in relation to the College. In most, if not all, Member States national ministers are subject to inquiries by the national ombudsman and it would be a pity if European standards of good administration fell below the norms now established in our Member States. In fact, in our view, they should be superior. – Mr President, Mr Bourlanges should be congratulated on having drafted a good report on an extraordinarily complex set of questions. It is a report which will be of great interest to the Convention, which is itself studying these questions. The primary achievements are: firstly, to make a clearer distinction between legislative and executive acts; secondly, to rationalise the choice of the instruments available so that force will more clearly follow form and, thirdly, to bring in a clearer class of subordinate legislation which should contribute not only to the quality of primary legislation but also to the parliamentary scrutiny of what is passed. My main amendment on behalf of my group seeks to insist upon a separate amendment procedure for the second part of the Constitutional Treaty. It is essential that the policy chapters are susceptible to a softer form of revision than the existing unanimity, plus national ratification in all Member States. If we fail to bring in such a softer procedure, it may never be possible to alter the political chapters. If the Union insists on the same procedure for the first and second parts, what is the point of splitting the Treaty in the first place? The PPE-DE and PSE Groups used to support the lighter procedure and I trust that their spokesmen will be able to enlighten us as to why they now seem to have changed their minds. – Mr President, every parliament needs a Richard Corbett – a man whose knowledge of and commitment to the Rules of Procedure is beyond compare and, although my expertise is less than his, I fully share with Mr Corbett the belief that good rules make for sound democracy. The reform package that we have before us is not revolutionary, but it amounts to a sensible and incremental change which will contribute towards making this Parliament far more mature, efficient and transparent. I trust that the conservatism that is sometimes displayed by representatives of the PPE and PSE Groups on this question will not, at this late stage, hinder the drive towards reform. That would be an incredibly poor signal to send out to the Convention and would seriously weaken the standing of our parliamentary delegation. The Liberal Group puts great stress on trying to make plenary sessions livelier. That is why we propose an amendment to make the "catch-the-eye" procedure mandatory rather than voluntary, along with another amendment to ensure that it is practical to interrupt speakers without penalising their speaking time. We need more drama in this place, more critical exchanges and a better balance between the necessary privileges of the party groups and the rights of individual members to express themselves. – Madam President, the central question seems to be whether this Parliament and the European Union show themselves to be sufficiently self-assured to confirm Turkey’s status as a candidate. A failure to do so will provoke a serious crisis in our relations with Turkey. Nobody wants special treatment for Turkey and nobody should ignore the series of problems over the treatment of the Kurds or over the situation in Cyprus. My group believes that the discipline of candidate status will involve Turkey in more serious preparation for membership, a stronger dialogue and greater exposure to European Union culture and politics. Parliament has certainly been dragging its feet on this issue, as the MEDA programme and the financial support for the European strategy show. The Liberal and Green groups have tabled an amendment calling for the clear prospect for membership to be opened up. This would encourage the forces of progress and reform within Turkey and increase the leverage of the European Union upon Turkey’s future development. This position is supported by the Cypriot and Greek governments and Parliament would be reactionary should it fail to be in the vanguard of progress here. I plead to all those who want Turkey to modernise on the basis of its European traditions to support our amendment. – Madam President, despite his twisting and squirming we are probably seeing Milosevic's final moments in power. It is a power that he has abused cynically and he is now trying to cheat democracy. We are certain that Mr Milosevic will fall, possibly this evening, certainly soon. What we are seeing on CNN is more than the fall of Milosevic. It is the end of the dreary succession of 20th century European tyrants. Serbia is suffering the final pangs of fascism on the fringes of our own Union. We will all rejoice when that suffering is over. As the drama concludes it is the duty of this Parliament, as a symbol of united free Europe, to support the crowds outside the Yugoslav parliament and to help Mr Kostunica to achieve and fulfil the mandate. – Madam President, should these reports be serious then they certainly deserve a quorum. What I will do is to press my point of order. – Mr President, what should Biarritz do with the Charter? It should clarify what it means by proclamation. What is a proclamation? Perhaps it is a glass of champagne and a string quartet, perhaps it is the first building block of Europe's constitution, but all this should be clarified. Parliaments are not used to proclaiming things. Secondly, Biarritz should reconsider the question of the European Union signing up to the existing European Convention. Thirdly, it should consider future revision and a procedure for revising the clauses of the Charter in future. Finally, it should request the Commission to launch a widespread campaign to inform the public of this great project. – Mr President, the European Liberal Group strongly welcomes the Morillon report which we find skilful, frank and forceful. We will resist the efforts, some of them fairly spurious, to upset the balance the report successfully achieves, especially those amendments which seek to set up the European Parliament as a tribunal upon the past. Turkey is clearly the place for a debate on the past as part of its general self-examination concerning fundamental rights. Such a self-appraisal will amount to a veritable cultural revolution. We should be satisfied that process is proven to have started. The Morillon report and the accession to partnership commit the European Union to Turkey's candidature. It is now up to Turkey to show that it is committed to membership. The European Parliament will play its part in fostering relations with political parties, the NGOs and the press, as well as developing its tricky and sometimes fraught relationship with the Grand National Assembly. European Liberals are certainly prepared to play their part in bringing closer the prospect of Turkish membership and the spreading of prosperity, stability and security to all European peoples. – I would like to associate my group with this complaint about this very serious and indeed frightening incident. I would say to Mr Wurtz that it is a part of the process of trying to open up the prospect of European integration for Turkey that we show them the sanctity and power of parliamentary democracy. If we cherish it inside this place, we should certainly be prepared to welcome and secure our guests in a very much more credible fashion than we showed ourselves able to do yesterday. If we are not proud of our Parliament, we cannot expect the Turks to copy us. In general the Liberals support the motion, but we would have preferred a shorter and sharper text that focused exclusively on the politics of the European Council, and had clearer messages for the heads of government. The ELDR Group has requested split votes on various items within the Joint Motion for a Resolution, as follows: in paragraph 7 we seek to delete the second half of the sentence in order to reinforce the imperative of enlargement; in paragraph 9 we seek to remove the last clause because we know that the Lebanese government is indeed trying to reassert control over all its territory, but is prevented from doing so by forces beyond its control; in paragraph 14 we seek to delete the reference to Nato on the grounds that all EU member states are directly concerned with this issue; in paragraph 19 we seek to delete the reference to the Observatory of Industrial Change; and in paragraph 24 we seek to focus the text on the political message needed for Feira. – Mr President, the worst thing about Mr Bangemann's imprudent career move is the threat that it poses to the Commission that he served. The Commission was already in serious trouble and its problems were bound to have been compounded by the Bangemann decision. In my view, the Commission has a final chance to prove itself the clean, efficient and effective executive that the European Union needs and that its citizens deserve. Should the Prodi Commission fail, then I fear that the European Council will execute a coup d'état and deprive the Commission of its right of initiative and its important role as the promoter of European Union. So to start the process of the Commission's recuperation, may we insist that the outgoing Members of the Santer Commission apply voluntarily the Prodi Code of Conduct. – Mr President, I have to say that I fully respect the sincerity and the passion of those who find themselves opposed to this report. Serious cultural problems have emerged inside this Parliament as we have debated the issues involved. My group has considered it very carefully and we conclude that it is a technical putting into effect of the agreement that the Parliament has signed on parliamentary immunity, and privileges will not be removed without due process. All the points expressed in the various amendments are already sensibly covered. Parliament's assent to this agreement is already five months late, and the public simply would not appreciate a further refusal to make progress and to create a strict but fair regime for the Parliament as for the other bodies. Madam President, I should like to express my strong support for the policy of the Commission and the Council on Cyprus. It is clear now that the Union must move swiftly to replace the United Nations as the principal force for peace and reconciliation upon that sad, divided island. To assist that process, the European Parliament should, as soon as we reassemble, set up a special relationship with the North Cypriot Parliamentary Assembly. I should like to request that the Commission and the Council consider supporting appropriate court cases brought by Turkish Cypriots aggrieved that they have been deprived of the franchise for the European Parliamentary elections. – The IGC still seems to be experiencing problems with the extension of qualified voting within the Council. Perhaps we should shift the focus to the issue of extending codecision with the Parliament. Parliament has proved itself a mature partner with the Council in the codecision procedure where it presently pertains. Parliament has also proved itself a serious partner within the drafting of the Charter, and it would be especially refreshing should British Prime Minister Blair publicly recognise that fact. At present the spread of codecision is neither logical nor does it accord with precise criteria. Although the previous Treaty made some progress in extending the formula, it also brought in the crazy formula of codecision plus unanimity for citizenship, social security, the rights of the self-employed and also cultural policy. The Treaty of Nice should stop that practice and extend codecision to some thirty further policy sectors, including competition policy, farm and fisheries, structural funds, state aids, trans-European networks, research and development and also citizenship. At a time when crude balance of power questions are proving fairly problematical for the IGC, surely it is sensible for it to focus on building up cooperation and trust with the Parliament and developing post-national European democracy as fast as possible. – Mr President, most people would now say that they want the European Union to play a stronger role in world affairs, but they appear sometimes to be uncertain as to the ways and means. This evening, in the splendid Carnero González report, we have part of the answer. The acquisition of an international legal personality would be a powerful instrument for the Union. First, it will raise its international profile. Second, by giving the Union more respectability, it should encourage us to act more responsibly. It will open the door for a more proactive part for the Union inside the United Nations, the IMF and the World Bank. It will consolidate our role and the functions of the Commission in the field of trade and the environment. But international legal personality cannot simply be asserted unilaterally. It must be earned if it is to win recognition under international law. What will assist us in winning this acceptance is for the Union itself to become a contracting party to the Council of Europe's Convention – a move that will complement the development of our own fundamental rights regime funded on the Charter. This report prepares those of us in the Convention to take the lead. We are grateful to the rapporteur for his sterling work. – Mr President, I had no idea that I had that effect on microphones! I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for his work. I would also like to congratulate the Council for having finally seen sense, assisted, it must be said, by the introduction of qualified majority voting. There are great lessons there for us in the Convention and in the IGC. The Council has finally moved to a common position which the large majority of Liberals are able to accept fully. The first draft sought – absurdly – to outlaw political party campaigning with public money. What on earth are political parties for if they are not for campaigning? The new draft, however, has corrected this and is allowing sufficient possibility for political parties to receive modest private donations. The question of the threshold is settled quite reasonably in favour of small political movements with real and serious European objectives. Certain other officious bureaucratic provisions have been removed. This is good news for parliamentary democracy in Europe. Trans-national political parties are a vital sinew of democracy, articulating the anxieties and the aspirations of the citizen on a European scale. The constitutionalisation process in which the Union is presently involved requires the engagement of mature European political parties. This report is a breakthrough and should be supported by all those who wish this institution well and who subscribe to the principles of transparency and accountability. – Mr President, the Liberal Group welcomes Mr Lamassoure's report, which we find balanced and thoroughly informed. It will be closely studied in Turkey, where the reformers will find much to encourage them in their efforts to bring Turkey forward on the track of modernisation, liberalisation, full respect for fundamental rights and social and economic progress. So far the majorities in the Grand National Assembly for reform are great, but could I urge our colleagues inside the Turkish parliament to respond to this report in a truly parliamentary fashion? Why not pass a resolution calling for their government fully to respect the rulings of all the international courts, including the European Court of Human Rights here in Strasbourg? Why not pass a resolution supporting the setting up of the Rapid Reaction Force and why not pass a resolution to bring pressure to bear upon Mr Denktash to work towards the integration of Turkish Cypriots into the European Union? Such reciprocity between our two parliaments would demonstrate, in a dramatic way, that Turkey is truly advancing upon its European journey. – We should no longer be worried that the agenda for the IGC will be restricted. That is one of the political conclusions that we must draw from the grave decision of 14 Member States yesterday virtually to freeze relations with a partner. It makes it impossible for those same Member States, at the IGC, to fail to give operational meaning to the protection and advancement of fundamental rights. It is already strange within the convention that is drafting the charter to see representatives of some Member States, especially Britain and France, seeking to argue that a mandatory charter would somehow be an infringement of national sovereignty. It is vital that the IGC prepares the way to accept the installation of a fundamental rights regime within the Treaty. One part of this is to improve the access of the citizen to the Court. Another is for the Union itself to sign up to the European Convention. Another is clearly for national parliaments and national political parties to find a reinforced role that they can play inside European Union affairs and to share the shouldering of responsibility to build European parliamentary democracy. My group strongly welcomes the IGC and will be contributing to this Treaty reform process to the maximum possible extent. – Madam President, I rise under Rule 126(3) so that I might question whether a quorum exists for this vote. Despite the unprecedented presence of some French Members, my assessment is that Fridays in Strasbourg do not function properly and effectively for this Parliament and we should transfer more of our parliamentary work to the capital city, Brussels. – Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Swoboda for his speech and also the report. My group supports the regulation, not only because of its technical and financial value to Turkey, but also for the political message it sends. The regulation is a confidence-building measure. It shows we treat Turkey's candidacy for European membership with the respect that it surely deserves. It squares Turkey's candidacy with that of the other states, sending a signal that we will be fair and straightforward with Turkey and setting an example of the political consistency that we expect and require from the Turks. The regulation will trigger a raft of reforms. It is certain that the quality and pace of reform in Turkey will be driven by the developing relationship with the European Union. The next step must be the national plan, published quickly and fully responding to the Accession Partnership programme. We need this national plan to ensure that the momentum that supports European integration in Turkey does not diminish. We in the Liberal Group will assess this national programme for reform critically but fairly. . The current practice of moving Parliament between Brussels and Strasbourg implies high costs for the European taxpayer, and reduces the effectiveness of parliamentary work. It undermines Parliament's credibility and political impact. The solution to this problem would be to concentrate Parliament's work at only one place. We call upon the Member States to consider a change of the Treaty, allowing the European Parliament to decide upon its own seat. In order to make this point we have voted for all amendments that aim to reduce the amount of time spent in Strasbourg and increase that in Brussels. – Mr President, the drafting of the Charter has now reached a critical phase. We have drafted 60 clauses and provoked 1000 amendments. Frankly the Convention is staggering and may stall completely should the Feira Council fail to bring a fresh stimulus. We have so far tried to reach a consensus across the body. This is now proving an improbable task. We require a far more formal decision-making procedure of a parliamentary type. This means voting, and voting by a qualified majority, as would be normal for the procedures within any modern European State. Some representatives of the European Council cannot stand the prospect of being forced to vote and they disapprove of the nature of the Convention itself. This prejudice must be suppressed by the Feira Council if the project is to succeed. – Those of us who have studied the matter closely are certainly able to welcome the real progress that is nevertheless being made by Turkey to reform its prison system. We also share something of the suffering of the political prisoners and their families who have chosen to starve themselves to death. The Turkish judicial and penal system is in transition from a regime of retribution and oppression to a more western approach, where prisoners are penalised but not persecuted. The European Union should assist this reform process by supporting financially and also technically certainly carefully selected confidence-building measures, without which the fasting will not cease. These measures include training of judicial officials, prison officers and , ensuring first-class medical services, improving conditions for prison visits and installing the independent scrutiny of the prison system and protecting lawyers. Solitary confinement must be the exception and not the norm. Prison rules must be applied scrupulously and the arbitrary treatment of all prisoners must stop. Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission for its extremely strong and clear statement on the unfortunate Zana case. During the recent Joint Parliamentary Committee meeting in Turkey, we brought up the issue of the Leyla Zana trial, as we always do. Justice Minister Cicek promised us that in the next package of constitutional reforms, which I think is to be published this week, the State Security Courts would be scrapped. This is, of course, first-class news because these courts do not contribute to justice; they do not contribute to security. The Turkish Government fully appreciates the political importance of the Zana case for the European Parliament. As a strong Turkophile, let me be quite clear that, if Leyla Zana and her colleagues are not released soon, it will be impossible for Turkey's closest friends to argue that accession negotiations should be opened from December. No country can seriously contemplate European membership with nearly six thousand prisoners of conscience, no matter how controversial those people prove to be. – Certainly I would wish to explain why despite our reservations about the resolution and its ambiguous character the Liberal Group in the end decided to support it. The resolution is at least a statement of our position on our relations with our great neighbour, and for Parliament not to have expressed itself upon this important subject would have been to have failed to shoulder its responsibility as an international parliament, and a sad sign that the policy of Fortress Europe is alive and carries more support than it deserves to inside this Assembly. – Madam President, as previous speakers have said, it has proved to be an extraordinarily controversial process to get this far, especially for the British who have only now agreed to bring in a fair voting system, without which, it must be said, I would unlikely to be speaking here this afternoon. The British also accept that they have a responsibility to ensure that the citizens of Gibraltar can be represented in this place. I trust that the participation of Gibraltar within the European political system will soften some of the nationalistic tensions we have seen in that part of the Union. Several States have quite properly conceded the end of the dual mandate. This practice is contrary to the constitutional principle of the separation of powers and impairs Parliament's efficiency. So I congratulate the rapporteur and the Belgian and Spanish presidencies for brokering the agreement. I look forward to a further review of the uniform electoral procedure, by which time I trust that the Convention will have established the argument for regional seats in the larger States as well as for some element of a transnational list. Mr President, firstly I would like to pay tribute to Mr Katiforis for his work for the Greek Presidency within the Convention. The European Council was quite right to resist the temptation to deconstruct the Convention's work. The result would certainly be greatly inferior. As far as the revision of Part III is concerned, I am prepared to turn myself into a technician, pure or not, for the final phase of the work. I quite agree with President Prodi that it is vital to extend the scope of qualified-majority voting as far as we can if the Council is in the future to be able to enjoy the capacity to take decisions. But what about Part IV concerning the revision and the entry-into-force procedures? The European Council was completely silent upon this point. Was it brought up and, if so, what was said? Would Mr Simitis agree with me that unless we can modify the future revision procedures we will be forever trapped in the dual lock of unanimity plus national ratification procedures – frequently protracted and problematical? Surely it is desirable that the Union avoids putting itself inside such a straitjacket. We must find a sufficiently flexible form of modifying the Constitutional settlement if we are to be able to move with the changing circumstances we will face in the years to come. – Mr President, most of us who served inside the Convention were astonished at its great success and, without suspending our critical faculties, Mr Prodi, we achieved a sophisticated and comprehensive package, which must now be defended from the assaults of those – some British, unfortunately – who wish to diminish the European Union. Especially at risk is the  clause to qualified majority voting and the provisions on security and defence. A single package forged through consensus was the optimum solution possible at the present phase of integration. If the compromise is unpicked something distinctly sub-optimal will result. Nice II will be much worse than Constitution I. If the IGC were to begin to unpick the Convention's proposal it would also subvert the very concept of the Convention itself, which is a major breakthrough for constitutional law and parliamentary democracy in Europe. The IGC can focus its work where we failed to achieve a consensus – especially regarding Part IV. I agree with Mr Prodi that it is essential that we have softer revision procedures where a shift in competences is not involved. We also require a sensible plan should the entry-into-force provisions be frustrated by accident or by design. In Part III several policy chapters – notably the common agricultural policy – can and should be polished and refurbished. All this is possible if the transparent and pluralistic spirit of the Convention is carried forward to the IGC. I know that this Parliament stands ready to play its full part.  Lastly, Mr Giscard d'Estaing, I would congratulate you on your excellent work on the future of Europe. Thank you very much. – This resolution sets out the concerns that must be shared by the world-wide community about the deterioration of stability in Pakistan and in its neighbouring territories. We are certainly right to regret the military take-over but it would be sensible to recognise that the new military regime is so far extremely popular within Pakistan. Pakistan clearly expects General Musharraf to succeed in stopping a long series of corrupt and illiberal factions. The Sharif and Bhutto regimes have misruled their country for many years. Certainly the military are tackling the financial fraud that exists on a massive scale with vigour. This motion speaks wrongly of the need for democracy to be reinstalled or reinstated. It should be a calling for progress towards democracy and proposing a practical programme for the European Union that will facilitate that progress. Fighting corruption is an essential first step. I trust that the Portuguese Presidency will use its renowned skills and experience to develop European Union appreciation of the problems that confront Pakistan and I would welcome Mr Lamy's opinion on the current status of the Cooperation Agreement. Mr President, perhaps the most important decision the Irish presidency faces is the choice of Mr Prodi's successor as President of the Commission. I am sure the President-in-Office of the European Council, the Taoiseach, consults you, Mr Prodi, on the sort of qualities that a President of the Commission requires. What answer do you give him and where can this paragon be found? . – Mr President, firstly I should like to thank all those who have spoken, and especially those who agreed with the report. I also strongly congratulate Commissioner Vitorino for successfully brokering an agreement in his working group on the technical and semantic problems which have confronted some representatives of Member States. On the question of the preamble, I quite agree and I will accept Amendment 7. To my Eurosceptic friends, I say that this is not some subversive plot. The Charter carries great authority and legitimacy. What it lacks is clarity and legal certainty. It is precisely to ensure that we can improve the position as regards certainty and clarity that we are seeking its incorporation. We are not being shamefully silent, as Mr Crowley said, on the impact on national law. The charter primarily concerns the competences of the European Union and the powers of the Union authorities. Finally, can I say that Lord Stockton and I find ourselves in appropriate political parties in Great Britain. – Mr President, may I join in the praise of the Presidents of the Commission and Council for having brokered the deal at Laeken. To have got a British Prime Minister to have signed up to the prospect of a federal constitution is an extraordinary thing. It is certainly unprecedented. I fear though that the size of the podium in this chamber will require strengthening and extension so that it can fit in Valerie Giscard d’Estaing and his entourage. The European citizen will feel truly privileged that we have such a grand praesidium to service our work. Thank you for the 60 questions or so. Frankly, I would have wished for more. First, there is nothing on strengthening the powers of the Court. Secondly, there is nothing on revising the formula of a qualified majority in the Council. Thirdly, there is nothing on strengthening the role of the regions within the political system of the Union and, fourthly and finally, we would have appreciated some critical self-assessment of the functioning and performance of the European Council itself. But we are blessed with a truly pluralist procedure – an exciting and novel one – and we retain the freedom within the Convention to ask ourselves questions. We will exploit that freedom. Mr President, sometimes it is an advantage to be spokesman for the third group in Parliament because it has provided me with time to read the Commission's paper. I can, therefore, say with some authority that I strongly welcome it. It is a strong assertion of the Commission's orthodox function and it should shift the debate about where a power lies, centre stage inside the Convention. It represents a challenge to those Prime Ministers who prefer to opine on the fringes of the Convention but who seem far too frightened to contribute official proposals. As most of the items in the Commission's programme appear also in my draft for a federal Union it is clear that I shan't be your fiercest critic and, while I commend the firm rejection of an idea of a Super-President of the Council, I do have concerns and reservations about the proposal for an executive Presidency of the Council. I wonder if this would not lead to more of the inconsistency and the conflict with the Commission that we have at present. Surely it would be an improvement to follow the logic of what you propose for foreign and security policy, which is the virtual cloning of Mr Solana and Mr Patten, and to follow that practice in the other two areas where the Council enjoys executive authority. Why not let the Commissioner responsible chair the Council in its formations for economic policy and interior affairs? Nevertheless, despite some reserves the Parliamentary delegation in the Convention will follow the principal lines of this proposal and I look forward to future close collaboration inside the Convention with Mr Barnier and Mr Vitorino. – Mr President, why is it that we insist that the specific legitimacy of the European Parliament is recognised in the preparation of the IGC? This is not simply because of our wounded self-esteem, but because the Member States left to themselves will quickly become obsessed with their own national power relationships. The common European interest will only be fostered if all those who share executive power – the European Council and also the Commission – collaborate with all those that share legislative power – the European and national parliaments. A true constitutional step forward will be achieved only if such a pluralistic formula is agreed. – Mr President, within our groups in Parliament and within the IGC itself we are still struggling with the problems that proved fairly intractable at Amsterdam. These issues are tricky because they expose both the exaggerated self-importance of small states and the  of the big states. These issues can only be resolved by a greater sense of trust between partners – such trust that is the essential glue of successful federal pacts. This trust is precisely the quality that is needed so that we are able to ensure the successful accession of the new Member States. The fact is – and somebody should say this – that if the IGC fails to resolve the Amsterdam questions, enlargement must be postponed. The Liberal Group supports the efforts of the presidency and of the Commission to build up the extra trust required. We support the main thrust of this report. We support especially those elements which expand the European Union’s capacity for action in global affairs: those that strengthen the status and the profile of the citizen, including the Charter; and those that will postulate further political reform in the interests of a strong executive and a mature parliamentary democracy. In this respect the splitting of the Treaties is vital. So is retention of unanimity within the Council exclusively for the most serious questions. Liberals everywhere support ministers that will subscribe to the development of European parliamentary democracy. But we will be savage critics of those who prefer narrow self-interest and threaten the accession of new Member States. – Mr President, the present crisis is founded upon the Turkish proposal to transfer prisoners from large wards to smaller prison cells. This treatment would be exactly like we see in Western Europe and, faced with the protests, the Minister Hikmet Sami Turk has postponed the transfer so that a social and political consensus upon prison reform be developed throughout Turkey. This is surely the correct approach and fully consistent with the government's expressed wish to meet the political requirements for the accession partnership with the Union. For that reason, we oppose the GUE/NGL resolution. – Mr President, Copenhagen has been the place of many controversial summits but none will be more so than next week when the camel of enlargement approaches the eye of the needle of European domestic politics. We know that enlargement will make us more multi-cultural and more competitive. The central question is: will it also make us more democratic? Many of the answers to that question are being teased out inside the Convention, but it is certainly up to the European Council and not the president, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, to decide just how far and how fast Member States are prepared to project the Union's experience in parliamentary democracy to the east and the south. I trust that the European Council and the Commission will be generous to Turkey in this respect. We should throw ourselves behind the process of regime change which is taking place in Turkey. There would be no stronger way of expressing support for Turkey's reformers than offering a schedule for the opening of the accession negotiations but only on the condition that the Turkish Cypriots were brought to accept the Annan proposals for a federated settlement of the problem of Cyprus. It will certainly be far more possible for them to accept a UN settlement should there be a firm prospect of membership for motherland Turkey itself. They frankly require the assurance of our settled intentions concerning our future partnership with Turkey and I know that the presidency will do all that it can to achieve this great breakthrough that is in its grasp. Mr President, there have been several weeks for us to reflect carefully upon the draft Treaty establishing the Constitution. It is gratifying for those of us who were Members of the Convention to see that, despite some initial posturing, most members of the European Council appear now to be accepting the outcome of the Convention with few qualifications. They can all see that if the IGC discards the outcome of the Convention, then it will fall to them to come up with alternative solutions commanding a greater consensus. Prime Minister Blair should be especially congratulated for apparently discarding previous British Government positions upon defence. At his Berlin Summit meeting at the weekend, Mr Blair seemed sensibly to accept the Convention's proposals for structured cooperation within and outside Nato, allowing a core group of capable Member States to forge forward to build a common European security and defence policy, not as a last resort but as a first call. It is a tribute to the Convention process that it stands up to such critical assessment, especially from this House, which is not known for complacency when it comes to these questions. The Convention certainly examined all the options, refined all the arguments, and took a broad political approach with the common interest of Europe very much at the centre of our work. It is for that reason that this resolution properly demands that the spirit of the Convention – transparent, pluralistic, political – should be brought forward to the IGC. I support the President's proposals that there should not be technical working groups. I very much support their proposals to have stronger representation of the European Parliament at the IGC. Perhaps it will be possible before the summit on 4 October to reopen this issue at the General Affairs Council next week. An IGC with a more democratic flavour and less diplomatic style will be more successful and much quicker in reaching a conclusion. – Mr President, should I be unable to speak about the content, I would only say that the previous remark from the PPE side of the House is complete baloney. – Mr President, we all sympathise with Turkey after the traumatic experience it has been through. We must, however, strive to see that out of this trauma comes something of a catharsis, so that civil society is reinforced by its great efforts to cope with the aftermath of the earthquake crisis. The Turkish Government should be made far more accountable to the needs of the citizen, and the forces of reform such as Mr Selçuk, President of the Court of Appeal, and his colleagues must be everywhere stimulated and supported. Such a cathartic effect would certainly allow us in the European Union to formulate a fresh approach to our relations with Turkey and to develop a more positive collaboration in a spirit of true solidarity, and Greece must show itself to be a willing partner in this project. – Mr President, I would like to thank the minister for his reply, but I must say that the fact that Mr Solana is so detached from the process of settlement of the dispute in the island of Cyprus fills me with great disquiet. Would the minister agree that it is fear for their security that is proving the principle obstacle to Turkish Cypriot compliance with the Annan proposals? Would he not also agree that peace-keeping on the island will be a central responsibility for the European Union, through the process of settlement and following this process, for a considerable period before tranquillity and stability truly return to that poor strife-torn place. . – Mr President, the issue of the reform of Rule 6 was raised first by the controversy surrounding the application by the Spanish courts to waive the immunity of two Italian Members of the European Parliament. The competence of the Spanish judges to file the application was challenged by Spanish ministers. This put the European Parliament into a quandary, not of its own making but one that was exacerbated by the weaknesses of its own rules and procedures. The proposals before us, passed after long deliberation by a large majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have several ingredients. Firstly, we include a short clear statement of what privileges and immunities are in the modern context. That is to say, not to say to protect MEPs inclined to a life of crime but primarily, as Mr MacCormick has said, to ensure the dignity of the legislature as a place of independent and pluralistic debate. Secondly, we concede that there might be more than a single competent authority in some Member States and we permit the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market not only to give a reasoned opinion upon the matter of competence but also to prepare an indicative non-definitive list of such authorities. Thirdly, the duties of the President of Parliament are more clearly delineated from those of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. Fourthly, the procedures of the committee and the criteria that it will use to formulate its opinions are set out in some detail for the benefit of Members' courts and the public. Fifthly, provision is made for the rare occasions when a Member is obliged to assert a privilege or immunity before a court. I trust that all these provisions will equip Parliament to cope with privilege cases at the federal level coordinate with, but not subordinate to, national parliamentary regimes. The reforms comprise a clarification, as well as a formalisation, of the privileges and immunities system, thereby meeting the requirements of the Court of First Instance in a separate related case. More radical reform will depend on whether the Convention approaches an amendment of the 1965 Protocol, the formulation of a Members' Statute and, finally, the matter of improving Parliament's access to the court on the question of sanctions. Mr President, I also welcome the progress report from Minister Roche, my fellow .It is clear that we are moving on – sharpish – from the fiasco that we had at the summit in Brussels. I trust that it will be possible to reach agreement before 1 May. There are, however, three sets of problematical questions outstanding: the formula for qualified majority voting, the size and shape of the Commission and the scope of QMV. It would be unfortunate if our obsession with those first two great patriotic questions obscured the third – the scope of QMV – which is in some ways more important. The Italian presidency, mainly under pressure from Prime Minister Blair, unfortunately retreated in several ways from the Convention's modest and balanced proposals to extend the scope of QMV and codecision with the Parliament. The Italian so-called 'final compromise package' is not acceptable to the Liberal Group – nor, I suspect, to a majority of this Parliament. Especially objectionable would be a flight from QMV concerning the provisions on social security for migrant workers; the suppression of codecision from the clauses on the framework programme for research and development; the re-insertion of the national veto and the suspension of the legislative rights of this Parliament in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters; and the unwelcome supplement to the progressive  clauses of a right of veto for any single national parliament – a certain recipe for frustrating the decisions of the European Council and for bringing on the ultimate sclerosis of the European political system. The Irish presidency is quite correct in saying that all Member States must move for the IGC to be able to succeed and none more so than the British Prime Minister, whichever personality that might prove to be. – Madam President, before the summer break the Parliament's Bureau finally decided that it would publish the names of all the assistants of Members paid under Article 14 secretarial allowances, but since then we find that the Bureau and the Quaestors have qualified their decision and are requiring the individual consent, of both the Members and the assistants, before they appear upon the list. Surely, this makes a mockery of transparency and transgresses the principle that the names of all those who are paid from public funds should be published. Can I ask you to request the Bureau and the Quaestors to review their decision? – Commissioner, would you not agree that trade is a wonderful way of breaking through political quarrels? Surely it is not necessary to recognise the TRNC for a kilo of tomatoes grown in the north to be sold across the Green Line. I simply cannot see that our refusal to trade with the northern Cypriots squares with our express desire to see the complete island – north and south – fully integrated into the European Union. – Mr President, the Foreign Affairs Committee welcomes the changes made at the committee stage of this report, for as the common asylum and immigration policy of the EU develops, it is essential that its impact on the outside world and especially upon our close neighbours is fully taken into account. These countries, many of them candidate states, are at the sharp end of the refugee problem. Most of them have no experience of refugee and asylum policy. They all lack the financial and human resources to deal competently with applications to stay. The Foreign Affairs Committee also felt it was important to insert a reference to the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, as well as the obligation to respect all existing international law commitments. Finally, we have also insisted that the EU's new procedures should aim to contribute to the improvement of international relations by being as clear, transparent and reasoned as possible, so that their interpretation by third countries and their citizens will be facilitated. – Mr President, Amendment No 9 is the furthest from the committee's paragraph, but if the rapporteur is of a contrary opinion, I bow to his superior experience. – Mr President, as previous speakers have said, precisely what to do to give regional and local authorities a higher profile and standing is proving to be controversial under the Convention. Many of us would want the Union to enjoy more direct interaction with regional and local authorities, because they are frequently more sensible intermediaries between the citizen and the Union than the more remote and centralised national governments. We appreciate that such a direct relationship postulates the federal nature of the integration process in a fairly dramatic form. It is appropriate that the treaty provisions on subsidiarity should be reformulated to reflect this. Liberals believe decentralisation is essential if the Union is to manage its common policies more effectively. More of a relationship with provincial politics will improve the quality of our supranational democracy. This report provides many of the answers, but the issue of the approach to the Court of Justice is still controversial. The Liberal Group wishes to improve access across the board for the citizen, to improve citizens' approach to their constitutional court. This implies clear lines of approach for all democratic representative bodies, especially regional authorities with parliamentary powers of law-making independent of their Member States. – Madam President, this White Paper between ourselves is worth more than all the recent grandstanding speeches of national leaders, because it combines clarity of purpose with a substantial degree of self-criticism. President Prodi has drawn attention to the paradox that people want the Union to be doing more in several fields but they still distrust the system of government. The Commission is therefore quite right to focus on improving the Commission's representative capacity, especially at the pre-legislative stage. I would also want a strong emphasis on improving the post-legislative phase, monitoring far more closely the way European policies are put into effect on the ground. My group welcomes the Commission's emphasis on decentralised management and on a reinforced role for the regions. The European region plays a vital part as the intermediary between the citizen and the supranational authorities. We also note the kind suggestion that Parliament feeds into the European system the views of its own electors. What else we are up to, I am not quite sure. But the place that we intend to do this is in the new convention that we trust will be set up at Laeken, a concept that strangely receives not a single mention throughout the entire White Paper. Would Mr Prodi agree that the White Paper will be a most sensible contribution to the work of that convention? Would he say exactly the way he sees the furtherance of the work on the White Paper fitting in with that of the convention? – My group is determined that the specific legitimacy of the European Parliament to play a part in the constitutional development of the Union should be recognised inside the convention. Parliament will bring wisdom and commitment to the process and focus upon common European solutions. However, we also require the Member States to play a full part inside the convention and there are currently certain signals that some prime ministers are preparing to concede us the convention but then to withdraw their own representatives from it. This would subvert the convention and it would be an insult to this Parliament. It would also ruin the pretence that the European Council respected the role of national parliaments. For the governments to absent themselves would leave us with a grandiose talking shop, it would be insufferable for this Parliament to be fobbed off in this way. I would request the Commission and Council to pledge that the convention will have four parties inside it, and that the IGC will use the work of the convention as the basis for the IGC. – Mr President, you said in your opening remarks that the package that we have symbolises a radical improvement upon the present system. That is true, but it does more than that. Mr Straw and Mr Hain are profoundly wrong. It is a settlement that entrenches what is truly important, it discards what is not, and strengthens the capacity of the Union to act effectively abroad and inside the Member States. It ensures that the citizen will not be abused from the greater power that is to be exercised at the federal level. The European Council should accept the proposals, without qualification, as the basis for an agreement at the IGC. At Thessaloniki we should not see this pirouetting around a convoluted formula designed to deceive. Were the IGC to seek to open up the package, it is certain that the results will be inferior. What the 15 were unable to agree at Nice will certainly be impossible for 25 to agree at the future IGC. The leaders at Thessaloniki must listen to the voice of consensus as expressed through the Convention and through this Parliament, and build the future of Europe with courage. Mr President, I would like to make four proposals to help the IGC reach a successful conclusion. Firstly, as regards the qualified majority formula, we need to raise the number of states needed to form a majority, while at the same time raising the population threshold needed to form a blocking minority. That should please the smaller states and not frighten those larger states which are genuinely committed to making it simpler for the Council to reach a decision. The sensible equation which seems to be commanding greater support is 55-55. Secondly, the IGC needs to drop from the constitution a specific number for the size of the Commission, a college which needs to grow and shrink according to supply and demand like any national administration. We should also drop the principle of equal rotation. Frankly, having a Commission without a representative from France would be fairly implausible. Mr Giscard d'Estaing himself concedes that the Convention's formula for the Commission was not the most glorious of our many achievements, and Commissioner Kinnock agrees. Thirdly, the IGC should be convened at summit level, preferably before 1 May, to enable a genuine political debate with a European dimension to be held. So far, unfortunately, this has simply not taken place. Fourthly and finally, our leaders need to find the moral courage to shape Europe politically. If they fail to do so they will be consigned to history as foolish cowards. Mr President, one cannot be truly surprised at the slow progress of the opening of this IGC phase. One must simply trust that, as the prime ministers have had more time to reflect upon the outcome of the Convention and upon the poorer quality of their own proposals, they will be drawn closer to accepting the outcome of the Convention and selling it on to their publics. One issue that concerns me especially is the absence of a clear schedule for consideration of Part III. The IGC is surely a wonderful chance for us to refresh and modernise the policy chapters, some of which, like the CAP, are 50 years old. If Part III cannot be properly reformed, the IGC must, at least in Part IV, seek to soften the future revision procedures for Part III. – Mr President, the Cypriot accession will only have truly succeeded once we have seen a profound reconciliation of Greeks and Turks. Thankfully the proposals of Kofi Annan seem to be a sound constitutional basis for such a reconciliation. The package borrows cleverly from the Swiss model of the system of government and the Belgian model for European relations. What is now upon the table seems the best possible deal that the Turkish Cypriots can ever expect. It provides them with the status of legal and political equality and protects their interests as the smaller community. It commits the refounded Republic of Cyprus to supporting membership for Turkey itself and its transitional arrangements seem to be able to satisfy most of the demands concerning property, residency and self-esteem. Mr Erdogan, Mr Simitis, Mr Clerides and Mr Denktash must now prepare themselves to take a dramatic step towards integration and reconciliation and reject partition and revenge. – Mr President, when the two planes crashed into the World Trade Center they demolished more than the twin towers. We also saw the destruction of the European Union's three pillars contrived at the Treaty of Maastricht and our response today requires a fully integrated approach involving trade, finance and security. The Ghent European Council showed that the Union enjoys both the capacity, and the will, to provide an increased sense of European security, solid in support of American self-defence, and sharing in the campaign to combat terrorism. This is a European Union increasingly active in its civilian role and far more present in the Middle East peace process. For us to succeed, we need to put aside our petty squabbles and the interinstitutional rivalries. The Commission and Council should reflect the impressive cross-party consensus that we have created in Parliament. In that context I would like strongly to congratulate the Belgian presidency on brokering such a successful deal on the setting up of the convention. – Mr President, in February 1787, a previous convention met in Philadelphia. Several of the American States were opposed to calling the thing in the first place and several others were determined to restrict its mandate and to dilute its effect. The convention's formal brief was extremely restrictive and it was not itself to decide but only propose. Yet from that experiment flowered the American Constitution and the post-colonial parliamentary democracy that we still recognise today. Such a similar result will only come out of this European Convention, if we as a Parliament are bold, well-organised and persuasive. Beneath the Presidency of our European George Washington, we must draft a clear set of proposals and, while accepting the questions set for us by Laeken, we must retain the capacity to ask ourselves some questions. Let us be truly creative for Europe. . – Mr President, the future status of the Charter was one of the four key questions bequeathed to us by the now famous Treaty of Nice for consideration at the IGC of 2004 and since Laeken, it is a central question confronting the Convention. This resolution, should it be passed, will represent a formal contribution to the Convention from the parliamentary delegation. We have looked at the impact so far made by the Charter as a solemnly proclaimed instrument and we have found that much use is made of it by the Ombudsman, by Parliament, by the Commission and even sometimes by the Council. We have found also some uncertainty among the citizens about the Charter's scope as a solemnly proclaimed instrument. For the courts, the Charter is already an important source of reference alongside the ECHR and the constitutional traditions of the Member States. Yet the national constitutional tradition referred to is already broad and, in a Union of 25 plus Member States, it will become improbably vague. Therefore, we conclude that we must incorporate the Charter firmly within the Treaties, so that what is at present an important source of reference will become a central source. Commission Vitorino and his working group in the Convention are considering the technical and semantic niceties that will be involved in incorporation and I look forward to hearing from him how successful the efforts of his working group are proving. This parliamentary resolution refreshes the political story of the Charter. It says why incorporation in the treaties is important and why it should become mandatory upon the Union and upon the Member States, when and, in so far as, they put into effect European law and policy. It also says why the Charter will become an important building block of the further development of the concept of European citizenship. As we enlarge, the Charter succeeds in spelling out for all concerned why fundamental rights are so salient to bringing Europe closer to the citizen. It proposes that we establish for ourselves our fundamental rights regime at the centre of the integration process so that it will stand as a jewel in the crown of our future constitution. I commend the report to Parliament. – Thank you for the answer. I certainly absorbed the messages of Biarritz and I was encouraged by the things that occurred there. I would just ask Minister Moscovici two further questions. Firstly, would he agree that it would be more sensible to restrict the use of closer cooperation solely to those issues where unanimity applies within the Council? As he appreciates, this is a growing feeling within Parliament. And the second question concerns the reaction of the candidate countries to the debate inside the EU Union concerning closer cooperation. Do you find that they welcome the prospect or are they perhaps frightened of it? – Mr President, this IGC will be supported by two parallel processes: the brave new world of a European defence policy and the defining of European citizenship within the drafting of the charter. I trust that these separate but closely related processes will galvanise the IGC, just as the drive towards the single currency stimulated the Maastricht conference. We certainly need stirring up. At present, despite the good work of the rapporteurs, Parliament’s draft position is in danger of being more conservative than the Commission’s, and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has tabled various amendments to seek to sharpen the focus of the report and to speed up the development of a parliamentary Europe. Firstly, we want a real process of conciliation between Parliament, the Commission and the Council in preparing the IGC. Secondly, we wish to change the Treaty revision procedure in those areas where power is already transferred to the European level. It is crazy for us to be obliged to undergo this ponderous and protracted Treaty revision procedure when we wish merely to reform a common policy. It is also wrong for Parliament to be excluded from that process. Thirdly, we wish to improve access of the citizen to the European Court so that the citizen will be a privileged litigant with ourselves, Member States and companies. Fourthly, we want a further look at the flexibility clauses so that certain Member States are able in practice to deepen their relationship without threatening the . I commend the Liberal proposals to Parliament. – Mr President, despite what the President of the Republic says about the problems faced, in view of the spectacle at Nice, one must question whether the Union is really and truly prepared for enlargement. The candidates cannot have been pleased at the sight of the scramble for national power and status among the prime ministers. Sadly the common cause of Europe was a marginal factor. For the decisions on Council voting and seats in Parliament a more suitable venue would have been the casino at Cannes rather than the Acropolis at Nice, with Mr Chirac playing the role of chief croupier. Particularly regrettable was the failure to make reference to the Charter – a failure that will bring legal uncertainty and political frustration. However, my greatest fear is that Britain, France and Germany will now be able to subvert the delicate balance developed between states of various sizes and between the institutions over several decades. We will resist this forcefully. – Mr President, this is a truly distressing affair. Possibly the most important founding principle of the European Union was peace and those who seek to join the Union must try to conduct their domestic and their foreign affairs in as peaceable a fashion as possible. Turkey, as we appreciate, suffers from an extremely vulnerable border and it is a particular problem for it to establish the requisite stability and peaceful circumstances that its integration to Europe properly requires. As a part of the pre-accession phase of Turkey's candidacy, we should try to establish a functional forum where military as well as civilian and economic issues should be shared between us. Turkey's membership of NATO presents many of our Member States with a special responsibility in this respect. The development of a common European Security and Defence Policy should be seen as a pretext, and also as a bridge, for us to reach common positions on ways to combat terrorism while respecting fundamental rights. If we are able to succeed in creating such a practical forum, we should be able to expect that this sort of sad critical incident will be put firmly in the past. – Mr President, I welcome the report for pointing us at the central question which is the method for revision of the treaties in the future. We must realise that it will be virtually impossible – and certainly it will be impracticable – to forge agreement between 25 or 30 states upon essential questions of sovereignty. So, the key reform is Article 48 for treaty change. We must entrench the constituent articles of the treaty and we need a softer, lighter system for changing the treaty in regard to policy chapters. The first reform will calm citizens’ fears of creeping sovereignty transfers and the second should encourage citizens to engage more obviously with the political choices that we face in Brussels and in Strasbourg. The second reform that is essential is to remove the national veto from the clauses of reinforced cooperation; and the third will be to grant citizens the right of direct approach to the European Court. – Mr President, the essential message of this splendid report, which the Liberal Group strongly supports, the central message really is that national parliaments could, and should, contribute more to the political system of the European Union. But they ought to focus on what they do best and not tread upon the prerogatives of the European Parliament. What national parliaments must improve on doing is to scrutinise and check the executive power of the Council. What they do worst is to second-guess the legislative powers of the European Parliament. That is why we firmly reject the British proposals to insert a third legislative chamber composed of national MPs, whose function would be "to police subsidiarity". Such a national cuckoo inside the federal nest would shatter the codecision procedure, which is the key formula in the Union's own march towards becoming a mature post-national parliamentary democracy. Such a chamber would be stuffed with dutiful poodles of the Council, making a mockery of parliamentary involvement in European affairs at the national level. I trust the British government will listen to the debate on this question in the Convention and then withdraw its dangerous and obscurantist proposal. –I and my colleagues have opposed this amendment because Leyla Zhana is insisting that she is not herself asking for special treatment or immediate release from gaol. She wants the penal law changed, as do we. Moreover, we believe that not only Kurdish, but all political prisoners should be freed. – Mr President, while fully supporting the accession of Cyprus, I question whether the Union is trying hard enough to bring about a settlement of the dispute. The minister says that he supports the UN and is monitoring the talks, but why is he not offering the services of the Council in trying to broker a solution? Why are the Commission and the Council blocking the opening up of trade with the North? It is only the pro-active involvement of Europe that will assure the two sides that Union membership profoundly and radically changes the context of their mutual relationship. Conflict resolution should be at the centre of the Cypriot accession and the Union should prove itself far more creative, and even ingenious, than it has been so far. Mr President, the truly frustrating thing about the fiasco we saw at the IGC in Brussels was that, Poland aside, a solid agreement was closer to being reached than is frequently appreciated. Clever brokerage will still be able to achieve a respectable deal upon the outcome of the work of Mr Giscard d'Estaing and the Convention. The fact that the IGC has failed makes the process and the outcome of the Convention more attractive. The Irish presidency should certainly press forward quickly to seek to complete the IGC. For them to be able to succeed they will need assistance and there is nobody more capable of proffering advice than the Convention itself, which should be recalled in January to consider the full package of presidency proposals that was published on 9 December. Prime Minister Berlusconi says that much has been agreed, but precisely what was agreed? That the financial system of the Union should deprive Parliament of the last word on the budget? Was it agreed in the area of the third pillar that the emergency brake clause would suppress qualified majority voting and codecision? Was qualified majority voting agreed for foreign and security policy, as the presidency proposed? In the 'passerelle' clause, will the blocking of a single parliament be able to paralyse it? Parliament has a need and a right to know the answers to these precise questions. – Mr President, the Liberal Group strongly welcomes the report for not simply revisiting existing powers to improve clarity but for boldly seeking to adjust competences to face the challenges that the Union knows, especially in the foreign and security field. The report will serve as the first contribution to the Convention on the question of competences. I trust that the Convention will follow the wise approach in rejecting the rigid and misleading concept of exclusive competences and in focusing instead on developing a more sophisticated system of power sharing. My group supports the idea of creating a new judicial procedure of constitutional complaint for breaches of competency, which implies the rapid evolution of the European Court. The procedure would be rarely deployed, but it represents a significant insurance scheme to see that the Union authorities do not abuse their reinforced powers. A further area deserving of greater focus concerns the regions, which can be, and should be, useful intermediaries between the citizen on the one hand and the supranational authorities on the other. We are proposing amendments which will strengthen the report in this respect. – Mr President, I thank the minister for his extremely interesting speech and for his support for the setting up of a Council of Ministers within a defence formation. What puzzles me is what exactly is the status of the draft agreement brokered between Britain, the US and Turkey, between the European Union and the non-European Union NATO European members? Despite the fact that the draft agreement remains fairly secretive, I read it with great care. It seems to me that it represents faithfully the conclusions of the Nice European Council, that the security interests not only of the European Union but also of Turkey should be guaranteed by the operation of the rapid reaction force. The draft agreement allows for the Council to decide to invite Turkey to play a part where NATO facilities are not required. That does not seem to me to represent a threat to the autonomy of the European Union. I should be most grateful for a clear explanation of precisely what the problem is inside the Council. . – Madam President, whatever one felt about the mandate from the Cologne European Council, it was fairly surprising that the convention set up to draft the Charter fully succeeded in achieving the mandate. We faced an extraordinarily complex task for the inscription of fundamental rights and freedoms found inside the constitutional traditions of Member States and also within the general principles of Union law. In my opinion the convention managed to strike a sound balance between self-restraint and aspiration. We refrained from superseding the Treaties but maximised their impact by making the relationship between the citizen and the Union for the first time clear and visible. Some people will be disappointed that the Charter was unable to go further but it is of course a compromise forged in the crucible of the convention and it represents a balance between competing political tendencies, nationalities and cultures. That balance commanded a broad consensus inside the convention and should do so too inside the European Parliament. Parliament played a strong part is formulating the Charter. We profited from participating strongly in the process and the citizens we represent will profit from its solemn proclamation especially as Article 52.3 says the Union can then proceed to grant more extensive protection of European fundamental rights as European integration proceeds. – The Minister will be aware that the Court of Justice is already deploying the Charter quite broadly in its jurisprudence. My worry is that we face a situation where the Commission, Parliament and the Court think of the Charter as binding but the Council does not, creating a situation that can only result in political and legal confusion. Will he promise that the Council will at least keep the impact of the Charter closely under scrutiny and review its status on a continuing basis? President, this Friday, 5 December 2003, the parliamentary members of the Convention will meet up again to consider the progress of the Intergovernmental Conference, to speak with Mr Frattini and Mr Giscard d’Estaing, and to make joint proposals to the IGC. The main thrust of our deliberations will be to support the work of the Italian presidency in defending the work of the Convention, but I fully agree with Mr Hänsch that we will fight the notion of  clauses on key elements of the package. Procrastination will not make tricky decisions simpler to solve: the time to act decisively is now. Nor will we approve proposals to inflate the size and distort the shape of the Commission - or indeed this Parliament - to avoid concessions to the self-esteem of Member States. Such ploys do not contribute to the efficiency and effectiveness of those authorities, and to ignore the settled will of this Parliament is certain to jeopardise the prospects of the new settlement being brought into force. It will sour the political atmosphere and wound the democratic legitimacy of the Union. The Presidents of the Council and of the Commission should be absolutely clear that the IGC cannot take our consent for granted. Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party warmly welcomes the plan crafted by Kofi Annan yesterday in Switzerland. I congratulate Commissioner Verheugen and his team because they have played a key part in brokering the package. It is right and proper that the Commission and the Council have been proactive in seeking to apply the membership terms across the complete island of Cyprus. It is not too late for this Parliament to become more supportive of a settlement of the dispute than it has been in the past. I would like to ask all the political forces represented in this Parliament to campaign for a positive vote in the referendum. Many Cypriots require support to catch the spirit of Europe and to look forward with more self-assurance to being a reunited community. Turkey deserves our thanks for making such a vital contribution to the settlement. These events and our gratitude are not fully reflected in the Oostlander report, but it will certainly inform Parliament's decision, as we move towards December and the critical decision to open accession negotiations. Rightly we are resisting the pre-emption of that decision today. Many things will change between now and December: inside the Union we will have reached an IGC settlement that will fully prepare us for further accessions; in Turkey the AKP administration will have consolidated its legitimacy and a new reform package will have progressed through Parliament; social and economic circumstances will have improved and advances will hopefully have been made in the practical implementation of reforms; and Turkey will have continued improving its relations with its neighbours. The quiet Turkish revolution will persist, and we in the Liberal family will see the bigger picture and treat Turkey fairly and recognise what a contribution Turkey can make to the future of Europe. Mr President, we are grateful that the Secretary of State made a report on the first session of the IGC. I have to say that, like Mr Barón Crespo, I greatly regret the suppression of the notion of the Legislative Council, a decision which will not foster the separation of powers within the European Union. The more serious problem appears to be caused by Spain and Poland, on the grounds that they are to lose the blocking minority they enjoy beneath the Treaty of Nice. I have to say that these are spurious grounds for complaint. The facts are that Spain and Poland need several more partners to join with them to reach the 38% of the population needed to block a decision. The Convention proposes to lower the QMV threshold from 62% to 60%: a mere 9 million people. This is at best a marginal question of bruised self-esteem for Spain and Poland. On Thursday, I trust the true friends of Spain and Poland will explain to Mr Aznar and Mr Miller that they should drop their complaint and assist the IGC in reaching a speedy political agreement to respect the first and second parts of the Constitution. The IGC will then be free to proceed to refurbish and modernise Part III, which is its proper responsibility. Mr President, the performance of the Council of Economic and Finance Ministers causes me great concern too. Yesterday, one of its principal members, the British Chancellor of the Exchequer, attacked the proposals from the Convention as threatening to bring about a federal state with centralised fiscal policy. This is a grossly false accusation displaying a regrettable prejudice against the work of the Convention. Then Ecofin tries to subvert the package on the financial system. Its reactionary proposals appear to want to move away from QMV to permanent unanimity on the financial perspectives, and also to remove Parliament’s right of assent. They want to retreat from the ordinary law towards Council law and to remove Parliament’s last word on the budget. One certain consequence of this would be an increase in the overall expenditure of the budget. Without being able to out-vote troublesome and perhaps greedy Member States, the Union will be obliged to have protracted and public rows ending in costly concessions. In effect, the Finance Ministers are seeking to suppress this Parliament’s role as a partner in the budgetary authority. They are imposing treasury autocracy upon parliamentary democracy. The power of the purse is a core function, a most central and long-standing power of the parliaments in all our Member States. Should the proposals of the Ecofin Council be allowed to prosper at the IGC, this Parliament will be reduced to a pale mockery. The autocrats will have won out over the democrats. – Thank you, Minister, for your first response during your presidency. I am especially pleased that we are able to see Mr Richard here. It is extremely important that the growth of our European security and defence policy commands full public support and respect, and strong and credible parliamentary scrutiny is certainly the way forward. – Madam President, the committee proposes to place a Charter of Fundamental Rights at the centre of the Union system, with mandatory effect upon the European Union, its institutions and the agencies. We do this because there is a great concentration of power at the centre of the Union and it is clearly necessary for the citizen to be protected from abuse of that power. We believe that the Charter will have three principal effects: first, it will reinforce the constitutional character of the Treaty; secondly, it will be a point of reference for those, including this Parliament, that wish to drive European integration forward with a greater degree of democratic legitimacy; thirdly, a Charter that is stylish and forceful will strengthen the profile of the Union for its present and future citizens. This resolution mandates the European parliamentary delegation inside the Convention. The Convention has already started the process of drafting the Charter upon the principal lines that we propose and upon the presumption that the final result will be binding. A strong vote for this resolution will assist the Convention to complete its task and set criteria for this Parliament’s final appraisal of the results. We should avoid becoming obsessed with the question of subsidiarity. The drafting of the Charter will certainly be informed by the application of that principle, but it is crucial that the Charter reflects modern European society with all its pluralism and with all its diversity. The effect of the Charter will be steady and gradual rather than sudden and revolutionary. There is also a controversy over the relationship between the new European Union Charter and the existing European Convention of Human Rights. We are proposing that the Union should itself sign up to the ECHR so that those rights inscribed in the existing Convention would form the solid core of the Charter. Madame President, our purposes are to write a charter that is so good that Member States will find it shameful to refuse to accept it within the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice. The Charter represents a chance to build a modern post-national society, and marks a bold step forward from the sorrow and the pity of twentieth-century Europe. I strongly commend the resolution. ( – Mr President, this is an important milestone in the creation of the single market. Today we will be debating two draft directives, including the prospectus directive, on which I have the honour to be Parliament's rapporteur that incorporate the delegated powers proposed by Baron Lamfalussy's wise men. We all very much hope that this new way of dealing with financial regulations will prove to be a step change in creating a single market, the foundations of which have been put in place by the creation of the euro and its successful introduction. The prospectus directive is designed to establish the ground rules under which an issuer of shares, bonds or other securities may access investors throughout the 15 Member States. At present, a company has to seek 15 regulatory approvals for 15 different sets of disclosure documents. This is a nonsense. It means separate markets in new issues, higher regulatory costs, higher costs of capital for business and less choice for investors. I have no doubt, therefore, that a single regime for prospectuses can create benefits for all, greater choice and higher returns for investors, lower costs of capital and funding opportunities for companies. The Single Market is a win-win game, not a zero-sum game. In drawing up requirements for an EU prospectus, it is important to strike a balance between the objective of lowering the cost of capital for businesses and that of protecting investors. There ought to be enough potential gains to secure both, and that is the balance we have tried to strike on the committee, I am particularly grateful to my colleagues, Mrs Piia-Noora Kauppi and Mr Harald Ettl as the shadow rapporteurs, and to their respective groups, for their help and cooperation. We tried to make a break in this proposal with in-depth hearings to understand the issues and I hope that we have a substantial measures of consensus within Parliament on many of the key problems and how to solve them. We all agreed we wanted, for example, to exempt the professional market for Eurobonds from the requirement for a prospectus, but of course, to insist on one if the issuer wanted to attract retail investors. The broad framework for that is agreed across this House. We have one issue to settle: should we have a minimum unit for each exempted Eurobond of EUR 50 000 or of EUR 100 000? I hope you will agree that EUR 50 000 is enough to exclude retail investors, as the larger amount will prove cumbersome even for professional investors who are used to dealing in units of EUR 10 000. The second key set of amendments deals with whether companies must annually update their prospectuses or whether, if they do not issue more bonds or shares, they do not have to do so. Overall, the committee supported the view taken by the EU's regulators – FESCO and now CESR – and that it makes sense for such annual updating to be optional if the issuer of bonds or shares wants to issue again. In addition, this is not a directive concerned with general disclosure requirements by companies trading on the market. We shall deal with the consultation in that area in due course. I have also been pleased to support an amendment from the Socialist Group to allow smaller companies to update their prospectus, if they so wish, with the filing of their annual report. We have also generally sought to have the Commission, advised by the Securities Committee, take account of different securities and issuers including small business. Therefore, the disclosure requirements will be tailored to particular circumstances. This leads me to a further compromise amendment, which would allow a national authority, if it wanted, to exempt companies with a market capitalisation of less than EUR 350 million from the EU requirement, so long as they are not marketing outside that Member State. This seems likes a large amount, but I would merely point out that there are a number of quoted companies currently meeting the small and medium-sized enterprise definition that would actually be covered by this. For example, the British Technology Group employs just 182 people and has a turnover of EUR 22 million and a balance sheet of EUR 32 million. It is an SME, but has a market capitalisation currently of EUR 1.6 billion. Small companies can have vast values, and it only takes one or two Nobel scientists on board to ensure that that happens. It seems to me that, as an investor-protection measure, it is better to have these enterprises included within the scope. Let me finally explain why I think issuer choice of regulatory authority is important. We want regulators to cooperate and they are increasingly doing so. We also want to give them an incentive to do so. By allowing issuers to choose between their regulatory authorities, largely as they do now, for example, on all securities except equities in a domestic market, we can ensure that that cooperation proceeds and that we gradually put in place the foundation for a single regulatory authority across the Union. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report. We, in the Liberal Group, welcome the thrust of the report, because it grapples with the real issues and it avoids the sort of populist solutions which, I am afraid, are on offer in many of the amendments before this House. I am particularly thinking of the Tobin tax. It is, of course, the case that nobody, particularly liberals in favour of free inquiry, could object to the Commission's study on this subject. But I frankly believe that this is a false promise which really offers very little practical benefit to the countries that we are all, I hope, trying to help. Instead, the report quite correctly identifies as a potential model, the Chilean deposit system, which introduces an incentive for investors to invest long-term in an emerging market rather than going for short term paper because that involves a longer-term investment for depositors. That is the right way to go, and therefore I very much congratulate the rapporteur and hope that we will not support the amendments to an excellent report. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Duisenberg on a successful year in running euro monetary policy. Clearly what matters is internal price stability, and the external value of the euro is of much less significance. Indeed that was one of the reasons for creating the euro in the first place: it was precisely to protect the European economy from the volatility of the foreign exchanges to which Mr Goebbels has just referred. I am particularly pleased, too, that Mr Duisenberg has reiterated his promise to publish forecasts and econometric models, and I entirely understand his caveats. I hope that when he publishes the macroeconometric model he will do so in a form which makes it available and easily usable by outside researchers, perhaps on CD-ROM. However, in connection with Parliament's view of last year I would urge Mr Duisenberg to reconsider a formal framework for the publication of summary minutes. As he said, much of the debate which happens within the Council is filtering out in the form of discussion within the monthly bulletin, but this is not the same as a regular report with a formal framework in which it is discussed. That would help anchor expectations within the market, as well as fulfilling the important accountability mandate of the ECB. It is also clearly crucial the ECB should look only at the euro zone as a whole in terms of its inflation and price stability objective. It is essential to point out that different growth trends exist within the different national components of the euro zone economy, and that this implies different sustainable wage growth rates over time. That is why it is important that there should be an overall discussion of what potential sustainable growth rates of wages are in each of the component parts of the euro zone economy, and why this will actually help deliver low inflation combined with low unemployment. Those are the main points I would like to make. I would also very much like to back Mr Goebbels' remarks about the importance of enlargement, namely that we should not have two standards – one for us and one for them. I very much hope that we will continue to apply the criteria of the Treaty, no more and no less. – I just wish to say on behalf of the Liberal Group that I very much hope Mr Goebbels and his colleagues will withdraw their amendment. We do not believe that the amendment insisting on call-back is appropriate to this particular piece of legislation, which my colleague Olle Schmidt has described as being very carefully balanced after the common position of the Council. Nor is it appropriate in the context of the ongoing discussions over Lamfalussy. Indeed, I would go as far to say that by insisting on call-back, which was not a phrase which appeared in Parliament's second resolution on this subject after the Stockholm Council, we risk calling into question our  in the lengthy negotiations which some of us have undertaken with Mr Bolkestein. I very much hope, therefore, that the people who have put forward this amendment will withdraw it, and that discussions will take place in an appropriate place. We should not try to call into question this piece of legislation. I believe it should be put through as is. . – Mr President, this is not quite as dry or as difficult as the title makes it sound. I wish to begin by thanking my colleagues on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for their hard work on the amendments on the prospectus directive. I also wish to thank the Commission for the important facilitating role it has played in reaching what I hope will be an agreed set of amendments when they are voted on Wednesday, and to thank the Greek Presidency – and before that the Danish Presidency – for the preparation of this particular dossier. I hope we will have an overwhelming vote in favour of the compromise amendments, with the agreement of the Council, and that we will therefore have a prospectus directive later in July when the Ecofin Council meets again. This is a key part of the Financial Services Action Plan and of creating a single market in financial services. Instead of having to use  separate prospectuses to reach retail investors in the existing European Union, in future an issuer of bonds or shares will only need . That will give a passport not just to 15 Member States but to 25 and a market of more than 400 million people. The single European market in new issues of shares and bonds is set to become a reality. This will lead to more competition and, therefore, greater choice for investors, cheaper capital for businesses, and more funding opportunities for many businesses that might be denied finance if they were limited to their national market. Moreover, this key advantage – a single passport – has been achieved without some of the less felicitous baggage that was originally contained in a somewhat rushed proposal from the Commission and that would have added to the regulatory burdens, particularly on smaller listed companies. This deal ensures that there is no mandatory shelf registration and that there is no mandatory annual updating, unless the issuer intends to continue issuing shares or bonds. This is a significant achievement for this Parliament in influencing the final shape of this legislation. Crucially this agreement also confirms the freedom that issuers of bonds have to go to different EU regulators for the approval of their prospectus, so long as the minimum denomination is EUR 1000 or more or, importantly, a nearly equivalent amount in other currencies, so that USD 1000 can also be a minimum amount. The euro markets raised USD 1.6 trillion equivalent of finance for business last year and 60% of that finance was in non-euro currencies such as the dollar and the yen. Europe is the proud home of the international capital market and this deal now gives that international market a way of bringing its benefits across to domestic investors too. The Council and the Commission have accepted the vast majority of the amendments passed by Parliament at its first reading in March 2002: on the choice of EU regulator for bonds, on a light touch for small and medium-sized businesses, on tailoring requirements to different issues, on lightening the burden on issues. Thanks to Parliament's insistence we have also reached compromise on the ability of national authorities to delegate approval of prospectuses to stock exchanges and others such as the nominated advisors in the aim market. There will be a review after five years and the Commission may reconsider the commitment to phasing out delegation after eight years. The political declaration from the Commission is important and it shows an open-mindedness faced with the evidence, which we would obviously expect. We have also made clear that both national authorities and stock exchanges may continue to insist on higher standards of disclosure and corporate governance as a requirement of listing, if they so wish. This should put some fears to rest. As regards the last-minute changes that were agreed only last week by the Council, we have also clarified that existing medium-term note programmes, a very important type of financing structure in the euro markets, can continue unchanged. Indeed they will now be extended beyond the four Member States which currently recognise them and will also benefit from the passport. This is a real breakthrough for the single market and this House can be proud of its influence in ensuring that the directive is an effective means of extending competition, choice and efficiency. – Mr President, my group's attitude towards the Commission's attempts in this area is rather different from that of the previous speaker. Indeed, if we were to criticise the Commission, we would criticise it rather from the other side; we would hope that the Commission would take a rather more robustly liberal attitude, for example in the proposals which it has made for a directive on occupational pension funds, to remove the possibility of certain Member States deciding to continue to implement quantitative restrictions for which there is absolutely no evidence whatsoever of any superior performance. The Commission should generally adopt the guiding principle that it should at least be capable of putting forward some evidence in favour of its proposals, rather than merely going for something which appears to be no better than the average practice in those Member States where the prudent person principle is adopted. We also take a different view in urging the Commission and our colleagues in Parliament to try to make progress in taxation coordination. While that is a very desirable aim, we should not allow the best to become the enemy of the good. If we can make progress in improving the returns for pensioners in private schemes across the European Union, we should do so. There is, as I have already said, absolutely no evidence that there is any reduction in safety or security as a result, and to establish an entirely spurious linkage, whereby we wait until we have a perfect scheme for taxation before we attempt to make some progress in the area of opening up and liberalising asset management seems to me to be very unfortunate. We also welcome the Commission's new stress on coordination rather than on legislation. We know that it is perfectly possible for the Commission to make many proposals, as it has done in the past, without making very much progress. This is a new approach and I hope that it will be more successful than the approach of some of the Commissioner's predecessors in this area. . – Mr President, as rapporteur I wish to move an oral amendment. There is a compromise amendment proposed by the Socialist Group. It involves an exemption from the need for a prospectus on behalf of the most creditworthy Member States. We should make it clear that we want this exemption to apply only to debt securities, so that they would not, for example, be able to undertake a privatisation without a prospectus, and therefore insert the word "debt" at the beginning of the compromise on No. 65. – Mr President, I will begin with the controversial issue in this directive. It should clearly cover financial journalists, and Article 1 of the directive does just that. If journalists profit from the dissemination of information, they will fall within the scope of the directive and they can and will be prosecuted. The controversial question is different. Should journalists be subject to new regulations that may be established by the Commission and financial regulators, as currently proposed under Article 6(10)? Currently, Member States must ensure there is appropriate regulation so that persons who disseminate research or other information, i.e. news organisations, take reasonable care that such information is fairly presented. Commissioner Bolkestein would have us believe that it only concerns journalists if they recommend shares. That is not what the directive says. It actually gives the Commission and financial regulators a role in determining whether information is fairly presented. You do not need much imagination to see how this provision could undermine press freedom. It is extraordinary to suggest that the financial regulators, the most criticised public institutions in most Member States – they always get the blame when banks fail – should help determine whether information has been fairly presented. This is why the ELDR Group has retabled an amendment we tabled in committee seeking to exclude  journalists from this regulatory provision, not from the whole scope of the directive, and to do so without opening up any loophole that would allow financial analysts to parade themselves as journalists. Do we really want today to set such an extraordinary precedent? Do we really want to introduce the first ever European regulation of the press? Do we want to ignore the objections of news organisations like , ,  and the , all of which live by their high reputations? Do we really want to take this terrible first step of regulating the press without a proper discussion of the potential consequences? I urge you to back the ELDR Group amendment and reject this ill-thought-through attempt to introduce media regulation by the back door. – Mr President, our objective in setting a framework for unit trusts and other UCTIS is to secure the highest possible safe return for our savers, which is why I want to address the issue of derivatives in my remarks today. I firmly believe that the prudent use of derivatives can help fund secure, safer, higher returns. Despite their image of danger, derivatives are usually used by asset managers as insurance. A contract that, for example, pays a substantial sum if, say, the NASDAQ or the CAC 40 share index falls, causes an extra payment by the investor if the NASDAQ or the CAC 40 share index rises. Is this speculative? Not at all. Imagine you have spent some months building up a portfolio of shares in companies in which you are confident: they have good management, good prospects and they are good investments. Then you become worried that the whole stock market is going to collapse, as it did in 1987. You have the option of selling off everything and getting into cash, but that would be to waste your research into the winners. It would also incur all the transaction costs of selling your shares and then buying them again after the fall. The solution is to take out a derivative which pays off if the NASDAQ or CAC 40 falls. But even with a tailor-made derivative or OTC derivative which would be cheaper, perhaps insuring you against a relative fall in your portfolio against the index, you would still have the portfolio and the shares, but you would have protected yourself against the risks of a collapse. In exchange, you might also have given up some of the upside of the markets. In this case, which is perhaps the most common use of derivatives by asset managers, you reduce your potential reward but you also reduce your potential risk. That is a desirable development in a soundly managed fund. History demonstrates that investors benefit from a liberal and light-handed approach to regulation. Heavy-handedness – a prescription of how private sector managers should invest and where they should invest – will merely reduce returns to savers. Pension funds which suffered from rules on where they could and could not invest, as required by of our government bonds, made returns of 5.2% a year, barely half the 9.5% annual returns made by free funds between 1984 and 1996. These are of course the returns after deducting all losses. Do not confuse a real concern for the interests of investors with a populist fear of the new and the innovative and liberal approach that pays off. This is what we should be concerned about here today. – Mr President, my group is broadly supportive of Mrs van den Burg's efforts on her report. Therefore, if she will excuse me, I shall concentrate on the Lamfalussy procedure extension. This group is in favour of extending the Lamfalussy procedure to banking and insurance. You have only to see the detail of the decisions being taken in Basle on banks' capital adequacy to realise that it would be a nonsense to incorporate them into primary legislation. Our American counterparts have already allowed the introduction of all the Basle decisions by secondary legislation and to delay unnecessarily would put European banks at a competitive disadvantage. However, the Council of Ministers sometimes seems to have forgotten two important things. First, that Parliament is fully committed to the democratic oversight of committees that establish implementing legislation. Secondly, that the deal on applying Lamfalussy committees to the securities market was a strictly temporary measure, which is why there are four-year 'sunset clauses' agreed by the Council in both the prospectus and the market abuse directives. Temporary means temporary. If our democratic role in monitoring is to be effective, Article 202 of the Treaty must reflect codecision over implementing committees, otherwise there will be always be a bias in this House against the delegation of powers that are necessary to deal with some extremely technical matters. For the sake of good governance and democratic oversight, the Member States should commit themselves – whether in a Council declaration or elsewhere – to a revision of Article 202, which not only introduces equivalent powers for Parliament and for the Council but also ensures there is proper oversight by this House and by the Council. Then we can proceed to extend Lamfalussy, again on a temporary basis. – Mr President, I too should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Karas, and the Commissioner and his staff for what I believe is a very good compromise reached between the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers and the Commission, which will allow millions of Europeans to accumulate better pension rights wherever they work in the Union. This is an essential plank of the Financial Services Action Plan. It will cut the administrative costs of many multinational companies’ pension funds, allowing people to have better pensions when they retire. It will help millions of European old people to retire in the sun. At present, European citizens are effectively being denied their right to free movement during their working lives and during retirement because of the patchwork of national pension systems. These impose unacceptable barriers when people seek to change jobs or residence. This is a big step forward in dealing with them. We look forward to more progress, particularly on some of the tax issues. Companies also suffer from a less mobile workforce and the additional bureaucracy, administration and costs involved in managing multiple pensions systems. Firms with a presence in all fifteen Member States face an estimated EUR 40 million a year in extra costs through having to deal with fifteen different pension providers and legal arrangements. This agreement also provides more choice of pension funds because it opens up the European market in investment management and pension administration. In future, we can have a genuine pension savings market of 377 million people, expanding after enlargement to 450 million people. This is a vast potential market. Funded occupational retirement schemes in the EU cover 25% of the EU workforce and are currently valued at more than EUR 2 500 billion. They are expected to grow to more than EUR 7 000 billion by 2010. This is a key plank in the opening up of the financial services market. It is also a market-opening measure without using sledgehammers to crack nuts. It gives a passport to pension funds to operate throughout the EU without trying to harmonise everything. Member States are responsible for determining the social requirements - such as death in service benefits - for their own pension funds and the tax reliefs that they give, consistent with subsidiarity. For example, I am pleased that lump sums are specifically allowed. In addition, the directive means that pension funds can now invest, taking into account their own beneficiaries' requirements rather than arbitrary rules set down by governments for the purchase of their own bonds and so forth. This insistence on the so-called ‘prudent person rule’ - the rule that investments are decided prudently - will open up the fund management market. Overall this is an excellent measure. I commend it to the House. . The Liberal Democrat delegation did not vote with the rest of the ELDR Group on the Schmidt report. We voted against Amendments Nos 1 to 13 and the proposal, as we wished the proposal in its current form to be withdrawn. Our reason for doing so is that we believe VAT on postal services, especially in respect of securing a universal service for packages below two kilogrammes, is a matter best left to national governments under the principle of subsidiarity. However, we remain open to considering future proposals aimed at ensuring greater competition. .  Mr President, I am not going to make any great claims for this draft directive. I fully sympathise with what the Commissioner has said and those who argue that it will not create a level playing field in cross-border takeovers in the Union. There is no doubt about that. Member States will still be able to sanction their companies to take anti-bid measures with the approval of only the board and not of the shareholders. Therefore, it fails to deal with a major potential obstacle to cross-border takeovers and restructuring. The choice of whether to apply the rules is only a fig leaf to disguise that reality. Many Member States, including some like Germany who proclaim themselves in favour of more political integration, are against foreigners taking over their own companies. In Britain we have many hang-ups but, fortunately, not that one. We have been losing foreign direct investment due to our failure to join the euro, but the signal that this part of the directive sends out about France and Germany may help to sustain Britain's share. For the euro area in particular this failure is a serious own goal. Why then is this draft worth supporting? The provisions in this text to protect minority shareholders are important and will encourage more cross-border portfolio share ownership. By ensuring that there is a threshold in each Member State at which someone taking control of a company has to launch a full bid for the other shares, this directive stops creeping control of a company. It therefore means that a new shareholder with perhaps only 30% of the stock cannot decide, without providing an exit for all the other shareholders, to pay themselves special dividends or to sell off assets cheaply to another private company that they happen to control. By reassuring investors about those practices, by no means unknown in many Union financial markets, the directive will encourage more cross-border share ownership. That is crucial to the efficiency and returns on pension funds, for the support of the retired and for insurance funds for the compensation of the distressed. Overall, however, this is clearly a modest measure. It does no harm, it does some good. It sends the wrong signals but, in reality, it changes too little; it does not change anything in the reverse direction. Certainly calling it a takeover directive is a misnomer and would probably be a breach of the United Kingdom's Trades Descriptions Act. But all that is politically attainable at present. For those who would like to see more radical opening-up of cross-border mergers, there is also the promise of a clearer view in the next Parliament and the prospect that the markets themselves can add to the pressures on companies to apply best practice in consulting their shareholders. Transparency in this matter, as in others, may help, and we must not let the best be the enemy of the good. Let me finally reiterate something on the debate with the Socialist Group on employee consultation. Mr Lehne, to whom I would like to pay tribute, has certainly worked very hard, as I did, on a text that would have satisfied the PSE Group, even though the position on takeovers, as we have seen, is effectively unchanged. Takeovers will not be made any easier but, nevertheless, the PSE Group wanted a form of words to provide some political concession, as if they were being made easier. In reality, that form of words in their amendments merely echoes what is already in the information and consultation directive. It provides employees with nothing new, but potential differences in the legal text between this draft directive if it is voted and that one could mean a risk of litigation over takeovers if it is voted through. For that reason, we should vote against these amendments and support what is, I agree, a flawed and partial compromise, but, nevertheless, one which makes some progress. . – Mr President, financial services should be the big winner from -commerce, because the sector does not have the problems of physical delivery, unlike booksellers or grocery supermarkets. A financial service, whether a savings vehicle like a pension or a mutual fund or just a simple bank account, is by its nature ethereal and intangible. Many transactions in banking and stockbrokerage are already taking place online. UNICE, the EU employers' organisation, estimates that nearly one-fifth of banking transactions in Europe are now executed through the Internet, direct dial, mobile phone, or digital television, nearly double the proportion in the US. In the Nordic countries of the Union, the overall proportion is more than a third. However, the vast majority of those transactions happen within an EU Member State. Cross-border -commerce in financial services is in its infancy and it has not chased prices down to the level of the cheapest Member State. Indeed, the most recent survey suggests that bank charges vary more widely around the average than they did in the mid-80s at the beginning of the single market programme. There is a lot still to do. The -commerce directive past last year was designed to encourage cross-border trade by enshrining the country-of-origin principle. This is one of the essential market-opening principles of the internal market. If harmonising rules is too difficult, at least recognise the right of any company to do business anywhere in the Union once authorised by one Member State. The key judgment was that consumers would benefit more from increased competition than they might lose from the greater difficulty of seeking legal redress from a far-flung and delinquent supplier. That is simply because the country-of-origin principle ensures the maximum amount of extra competition and extra competition is ultimately the consumer's best friend. True, the -commerce directive allows exceptions still subject to national regulation of incoming services, notably insurance in unit trusts. In general, most of the liberally-minded market-opening fraternity were pleased to get it on the statute book. As its full implications have sunk in, some Member States have been quietly attempting to restrict the scope of its application and backpedal on its implications. This is the real significance of the Commission's White Paper on -commerce and financial services. It is designed to clear up the bits left out of the -commerce directive and the report we are debating tonight is designed to support the Commission's resolve to open up the single market; if necessary, by insisting on the provisions of the -commerce directive despite the reservations of some Member States. We must maintain the liberal thrust of the -commerce directive. That means also setting a clear timetable to include both insurance and advertising of unit trusts in the general country-of-origin approach. Insurance services, for example, are particularly suited to -commerce provision. It also means basing any guidance from the Commission to Member States about consumer protection on real documented problems, not on imagined ones. Of course, there are real difficulties. The Commission needs to look at these difficulties carefully and attempt to set out a clear road map to allow -commerce and financial services to flourish. Consumers are concerned about security, particularly with cross-border transactions. Soft law provisions, alternative dispute procedures, should be made effective so that they can deal with the vast majority of problematic cases and we have asked for a regular report on that. Some convergence of national rules on consumer contracts is clearly desirable, though this should not be used as an excuse to delay the single market. Some standard features of terrestrial banking, like applying the money-laundering provisions by looking your depositor in the eye to ask where her or his money came from, require fresh thought in an e-depositing world. It is also the case that financial services transactions are rarely entirely online without any offline elements, so we need to work as far as possible to ensure coherence. The prize for getting this framework right is very great. E-commerce and the euro can make a reality of cross-border financial services, not just for business but also for savers and the extra competition will, as it always does, bring long-lasting and real benefits. So, I urge the House to stick to the line that we have set in the past in asking for opening up of this market. – Mr President, the European Liberal Democrats also reject the European Central Bank's proposal for a change in the way it takes decisions once the 10 candidate countries join the eurozone. The ECB proposal would create a third class of Member State with fewer chances of voting and, outrageously, only candidate countries would be in this inferior grouping. Tiny Luxembourg gets a special lift into the second group thanks to its financial markets, even though it has had a central bank for substantially fewer years than many of the candidate countries, including Poland and Hungary. This is a proposal designed to protect the vested interests of the eurozone's existing central bankers. They are just trying to pull the ladder up behind them. We support instead an Executive Board of nine members, as Mr Friedrich has mentioned, taking operational decisions, plus a wider Governing Council that would involve all Member States' central bank governors in strategic decisions, such as the definition of price stability, and the emphasis on other objectives, such as monetary reference values. As regards the proposal of the PPE-DE and PSE Groups that the Governing Council should decide by a double majority system, giving more weight to the members from the big Member States, we beg to differ. We support the principle of one member one vote when it comes to decision-taking, and a double majority system implies that a Governing Council member from a big Member State is representing that Member State, rather than voting for the eurozone as a whole. This would be retrogressive and would undermine the collegiate outlook of the Governing Council. However, there should be some checks and balances on the Executive Board, which is why we propose that the Governing Council should be able to overturn decisions of the Executive Board by a two-thirds majority. The Convention should look at this issue so that it can be discussed as openly as possible and with full consultation of all the interested parties. – Mr President, I will be brief in saying that my Group had two fundamental objectives in dealing with this proposal from the Commission. The first is to support the Commission as far as possible in its effort to keep it simple and not to include unnecessary complications such as biometric risk. The compromise which Mr Karas has engineered in Parliament is one that we can live with. We would have preferred to have the original Commission proposal in its simplicity, but I recognise the considerable political difficulties which Mr Karas faced and thank him for his efforts in engineering that. The second key objective of my group was to stiffen the resolve of the Commission, to be more liberal and more 'market opening' in its approach to the abolition of quantitative rules. The Commission's draft directive envisages that Member States will be able to continue to set quantitative limits on the operation of pension funds. I am delighted that Parliament looks as if it is going to insist that there is a five-year time limit. I very much hope that the Commissioner abandons any attempt at realpolitik, involving dirty compromises in the Council, and sticks to what is Parliament's clear desire. We want to ensure that pensioners have high returns without any additional lack of security, applying the prudent person principle. Those are the two key objectives for us and if we manage to get them voted in Parliament tomorrow, this legislation will lay the ground rules for a vast growth in private pensions in the Union. It will improve the investment returns to existing pension schemes and thereby improve pensions. It will establish, for the first time, a pan-European investor base for growing and integrated euro-area financial markets. –Mr President, it is very regrettable that this common position, which has been put together with such care by the Council and which paid due respect to the Parliament's views at first reading, is now in the process of unravelling. I think we are going to lose a rather useful piece of legislation which would have put in place a necessary supervisory framework for one of the growth areas in financial services, namely the storage of cash on plastic cards and other forms of e-money. The concerns which have been expressed by the European Central Bank, which have largely, but perhaps not fully, been taken on board, are coming out in a way which is likely to damage the potential for this business to develop. The concerns, particularly about the waiver, are misguided precisely because it would be very limited: it would be limited to only EUR 150 on any particular card. Every issuer would be supervised by national authorities and we know that the potential for money-supply growth caused by this sort of issuance would be extremely slight given the sort of schemes which are already operating in a number of Member States: for example, on university campuses a student may be able to use this piece of plastic to buy something in a bar, or in a canteen, or in the university bookshop. The reality is that other Community central banks – notably the Swedish Riksbank, the Bank of England – do not have these concerns about money creation. If we look at the reality of the ECB's concerns over the last few years, we can see that there has not been a stable relationship between the money supply and the growth of nominal income. There has been a substantial variation in the velocity of circulation because of new developments within the financial services industry and this is merely another one of those. Therefore, in the years before the ECB took charge of euro-zone monetary policy, the Bundesbank itself was not able to respect the growth of its money supply targets. What we have here is an attempt, when we see that a particular theory of monetary control is not working and does not accord with reality, to squeeze that reality back into the theory, to the detriment of the innovatory capacity of the Member States and of their financial systems. That is very regrettable. There are a lot of safeguards that the Commission has put in here that the Council has carefully discussed and I very much hope that we will fully support the Council common position on this matter. . – It is an honour to be chosen as the rapporteur for this important report. This is the first occasion on which the European Parliament has given its views on the progress of the European Central Bank and in this context it is my pleasant duty to congratulate the ECB and Mr Duisenberg, as President, on its success so far. The launch of the euro itself is a truly historic moment in the life of an extraordinary undertaking. It represents a substantial technical achievement and the many officials involved deserve our thanks and our appreciation. Clearly it is still early days in terms of judgement on the results of the ECB’s mandate but here, too, we can already point to many positive signs, not least that investors are prepared to lend euro area governments their money at very low rates of interest. This is a real vote of confidence that the ECB will continue to deliver price stability and will not allow an inflationary erosion of people’s savings. It is very much in this context of overwhelming support for the objectives of the ECB and of praise for its achievements so far that my remaining remarks should be seen. Only if the ECB is open about the way it reaches its decisions will it be able to retain support in bad times as well as in good. It may achieve its objective of price stability but without openness it will not be clear whether that objective has been attained by design and can therefore be repeated in future or by lucky accident which may therefore require some improvement in its methods of working. The committee was also struck by the fact that other central banks have moved more rapidly in recent years towards greater openness. The US Federal Reserve, the Bank of Japan, Sweden’s Riksbank, the Bank of England all publish the individual votes of the committee that decides interest rates. They all publish forecasts, they all give information about the nature of the debate within their governing councils. In all of these respects – objective measures of transparency – the ECB lags behind normal international practice. The committee therefore proposes, firstly that the ECB should publish a summary minute giving both sides of the argument, for and against monetary actions. Secondly, the ECB should publish a six-monthly forecast of economic developments in the euro area. Mr Duisenberg’s remarks to us today are particularly welcome in that respect because he has promised that he that will do just that within the next year. Thirdly, the ECB should discuss on a regular basis developments in each of the Member States of the euro area in order to have a positive influence on price and wage developments which must, as Mr Duisenberg rightly pointed out, differ from Member State to Member State. Finally, the committee may request that the President appears following each significant monetary action. These measures would do much to foster a culture of transparency. The committee was unable to support a call now for the publication of votes as is in the Liberal group amendment today. It was felt that a young institution should have time to find its feet. Most members felt that publication might intensify the public pressures on governing council members to vote in line with their national interest. Similarly, the committee did not support the Liberal position that it would be useful to publish the ECB’s econometric models of the euro area, partly for fear that they may be abused. The committee also rejected the Greens’ view as expressed in their amendment today, that the price stability mandate should be altered to take account of the difficulties faced by manufacturers alone if their prices fall. The amendment from the EPP, however, clarifies the paragraph and should, in our view, be supported. Mr President, I would like to highlight briefly some other points that we make. The first is to thank Mr Duisenberg again for his assurance to this House that the process of cooperation between the ECB and the national central banks is now adequate, even in the case of a serious crisis in which a euro area financial institution may need to be supported. I would also like to stress the committee’s view that the ECB should bring pressure to bear on those Member States which rely excessively on short-term debt, as this can present dangers, particularly during a financial crisis. Thirdly, we encourage the ECB to fulfil its role on the international stage as one of the three main pillars of the international monetary system. Finally, I very much welcome, too, Mr Duisenberg’s taking up of a point in the report about the need to reduce the costs of cross-border payments, particularly for smaller payments which affect individual members. Mr President, if the euro is as great a success as I hope and expect, it will play its part in revolutionising the European economy. By completing the single European market it will give Europe’s consumers more choice of goods and services, of higher quality and at lower prices and will, therefore, spur greater increases in living standards. It will provide jobs in expanding industries which is the only sure guarantee of future prosperity. Although I have no doubt that the ECB will face many difficult challenges in the years ahead, I am pleased to report that so far it has risen to the challenges it has faced with considerable . We can look forward to a future which builds on its recent success. – Mr President, I am very glad that Mrs Randzio-Plath mentioned the very important context of our debate because up until now no other speaker has done so. The advent of the euro at the beginning of last year unleashed enormous competitive forces within European business which are being met by a merger wave of quite unprecedented proportions. For example, the figures for last year now show that the total value of mergers in the European area was EUR 1.4 trillion, which is seven times the level of merger activity at the peak of the last European merger boom in 1990. This poses enormous challenges for competition policy, which I hope it will be able to meet because, for certain, many of those mergers are going to be designed to protect profit margins of the businesses from competition rather than merely to enhance productivity and make those businesses able to operate on a bigger scale. Commissioner Monti and his colleagues have a tremendous challenge ahead of them and our worries in the ELDR Group are that there should be no weakening in the thrust of competition policy either in the examination of mergers or the monitoring of restrictive practices. Delegation to national authorities is all very well but we would emphasise what Mr von Wogau said in his report on the need for regular monitoring of national authorities to ensure that there is no slippage in the European element, and, particularly would ask the Commissioner to reassure us that there would be random checks on that. – Mr President, for more than a year we in Parliament's negotiating teams, together with the Commission and the Council of Ministers, have been struggling with a puzzle. We have all agreed with Baron Lamfalussy and his wise men that effective regulation of financial markets and the creation of a single financial market require us to delegate powers to the Commission and to a more nimble official committee. But there has been a key problem. Although this House was given the power of codecision vis-à-vis such legislation by the Maastricht Treaty in 1992, it was not given the power to oversee effectively the role of any committee. What we have seen of such committees in the past, we have not liked; they have been secretive, bureaucratic, Kafkaesque. One condition on which my group insisted was that this culture of secrecy must change fundamentally, opening up decision-making not only to us in Parliament, but to the world outside. We needed guarantees of transparency, openness and consultation. Here they are in the President's statement and in the letter that Commissioner Bolkestein addressed to the chairperson of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. But how were we to ensure that those promises of a changed culture, so often honoured in the breach, were finally respected? It became clear that no lasting change could happen before the convention and the intergovernmental conference of 2004 had been concluded. Only an IGC could change Article 202, which basically gives sole rights of oversight of committees to the Council of Ministers, ignoring the new role of Parliament. We needed a promise that our concerns, ignored in successive treaty revisions, would be taken on board. We needed an interim solution that meant that Europe's savers and investors did not have to wait still longer before the completion of the single market in financial services, which was first launched in 1973. The health of the European economy depends on this legislation. A vital and dynamic economy depends on an efficient financial system for collecting savings and funnelling them at low cost to the most productive uses. It was long clear to the Liberal Group that the only interim solution would be to put a time limit on the delegated powers. For the first time in EU legislation, we will have a sunset clause that will remove the powers of the Commission and the committee after four years unless they are used wisely and well. Thankfully, the initial opposition of the Socialist Group and the European People's Party, together with concerns about legal uncertainty, were overcome. Any regulations passed by the committee will remain on the statute book even if its powers are suspended, but Parliament can bite if it needs to. This is an important moment for liberalisation of the European economy. The deal will underpin the euro – for what is a single currency if the markets on which it is traded are still divided by national barriers? It will give confidence that, whatever the challenges ahead for economic and monetary union, the European Union can surmount them, and it shows that Parliament is a serious and responsible legislature and partner in economic reform. The Lisbon reform process is back on track. I wholeheartedly congratulate Mr von Wogau, our rapporteur, and commend this report to the House. – Mr President, since there is a very large measure of agreement in this House over the fundamentals of policy towards the ECB, I would like to address one specific measure which we have in the draft resolution, which we have requested before without receiving a formal response from the Governing Council in the Annual Report, and I hope this will be rectified. It is the issue of publishing the balance of votes on an anonymous basis, so that the markets and Parliament can assess the shift of opinion over time. You, Mr Duisenberg, have raised objections in the past to such a move, because the Governing Council tends to decide by consensus. I was glad that you indicated to us in committee that you would reconsider this over time. I hope that you will decide to take decisions by majority voting, both because this would lead to more efficient decision-making and because you are asked to do so in the Treaties. I would like to make it clear that I do not share the criticism over the last year that the ECB has acted too little and too late. In fact the ECB first cut interest rates in May 2001 despite a continuing rise in inflation, which had still to peak at 3.4%. You have honoured your monetary reference values only in the breach, and in 26 out of 41 months you have allowed inflation to exceed your target range. This is a pragmatic institution. However, we know from the Council of Ministers that voting by consensus, in other words by unanimity, is slower and more difficult than voting by majority. For this reason alone, it would be sensible for the ECB in future to vote by majority. The fact that present procedures have not led to mistakes is not an argument against improving them, particularly when this is what the Treaty requires. Article 10 of the Protocol on the Statute of the European System of Central Banks clearly states that the Governing Council shall act by a simple majority. Therefore, I hope that the Governing Council will also note its Treaty obligations in the manner of its decision-taking by majority. – Mr President, given the time constraints and also the feeling in my group that the ECB has essentially been doing a good job in difficult circumstances, I would like to concentrate on some remaining structural issues concerning communications and accountability. As Mr Duisenberg will remember, Parliament has repeatedly adopted a transparency package advocating five separate measures to increase transparency. I am delighted to report that the ECB has so far agreed three of them, and we must give them credit for this. We have had no problems in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in inviting members of the governing Council to appear before us. Last year, we had eleven such appearances. Secondly, the ECB began to publish regular forecasts or, as they prefer to call them, "projections" in the December 2000 monthly bulletin, and that was a very welcome development. In addition, econometric models are now published in the working paper series. It would be nice if they were in more user-friendly form, for example, on CD-ROM, but there is progress. The two remaining measures that Parliament is again calling for are a publication of a "Beige Book" setting out conditions in each Member State and publication of summary minutes giving the views for and against interest rate changes. In addition, this year we are asking the ECB Governing Council to deal with a specific problem it has faced in a couple of recent interest rate changes. There was confusion in the markets about what was perceived as an unpredictable decision and the marketplace was clearly not prepared for that decision. Indeed, some people went as far as to say it was arbitrary, so we are calling for the publication of votes on an anonymous basis. – Mr President, on behalf of the Liberal Group, I wish to say that we believe the Stability and Growth Pact is an essential pillar of economic stability in the euro area and in the Union more widely, and should be respected in letter and spirit. We do not recognise the view, apparently emanating from the Socialist Group, that the SGP currently incorporates unnecessarily restrictive fiscal rules. For the 11 countries whose budgets are in a sustainable position – those which, in other words, can face a normal recession with a fall in tax revenue and continue to respect the 3% limit on budget deficits – there is no need to raise taxes or cut public spending and the automatic stabilisers can and should be allowed to play. Moreover, for many of these countries, this is the first slowdown since the first oil shock in 1973 in which the automatic stabilisers have been able to work fully. Previously, financial market worries have been a serious constraint on governments. So monetary union, the Stability and Growth Pact and fiscal consolidation have given back to Member States a useful policy lever which has been out of the policy box for too long. For the four euro-area Member States whose budgets are not yet fully compatible with the Stability and Growth Pact – France, Germany, Italy and Portugal – it is wholly reasonable that they should continue the process of putting their underlying budget positions right. This means allowing some effects of the slowdown on the deficit, but certainly not all. In our joint motion with the PPE-DE Group we urge the proper respect of the SGP. We point out that it would be particularly useful in a year like this one – in which many stability programmes were drafted in expectation of 3% growth, but the out-turn is likely to be less than 2%, as the Commission has said – if there were a commonly agreed measure between the ECB, Ecofin and the Commission of the underlying budget balance, stripping out the impact of the slowdown on taxes and cyclically determined spending and, perhaps, interest rates as well. Such an underlying budget balance would allow better between-years monitoring of the fiscal position, underpinning the discipline of the Stability and Growth Pact and reassuring the financial markets that the fiscal stance is not being eased, even if the nominal deficits are inevitably somewhat larger. Similarly, such an underlying budget balance would discourage finance ministers from fiscal easing in upturns, merely on account of cyclically buoyant revenue. I urge us to respect the Stability and Growth Pact and add to its ability to check finance ministers' discipline. – Mr President, on behalf of the Liberal Group I would like to welcome Greece into the euro and say that we shall certainly be voting in favour of Greek membership. For those other ‘out’ countries, including my own, I very much hope that they will be able to join the euro soon. I very much regret too that there are so few British Conservatives here in the Chamber today because it shows, with Greece now the twelfth member of the euro zone, how far from reality British euroscepticism about the future of the currency is. The euro has successfully delivered low inflation, rising growth, falling unemployment and protection for the euro zone economies from the ups and downs of the foreign exchanges. Indeed, the British perception of the euro as a failure, because of its fall against the dollar, simply misunderstands the whole project. The key test of a currency is price stability within the economy, not the value of the currency against other currencies outside the economy. On the test of internal stability, with inflation at less that 2% and growth higher at 3.1% in the euro zone than in Britain, the euro is clearly succeeding. Indeed, research at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi recently calculated the euro’s value as if it had existed over the last few decades, weighting each predecessor currency's value to create a synthetic euro. Historically, that research found that the euro actually swooped between a high of USD 1.70 in December 1979 and a low of just USD 0.69 in February 1985. In other words, the euro could stay within its historic trading range and happily now either fall by a further 23% or rise by 188%. Certainly that synthetic euro included currencies such as the Italian Lira, but the same point applies even to the mighty German Mark on its own. If the euro is a weak currency, than the Mark was positively anaemic. It plunged to DEM 3.45 against the dollar at the end of February 1985, which is a third below its current rate of DEM 2.16 to the dollar. Within three years, and a dollar crash, the Mark was back to DEM 1.57 during December 1987. The truth is that the history of foreign exchange is a history of gross misalignments, of overvaluations and undervaluations, each inflicting either depressive pain or inflationary costs on the economy and, as Greece has rightly recognised, the euro is a way of regaining control over a key part of our economic environment. Mr President, I should like to make some constructive points about how to get out of the present mess. The first is that there must be a sense of shared responsibility. Remember that the problem for both Germany and France began because of the budget relaxations, the tax cuts and public spending increases introduced between 1999 and 2002. In each country that budget easing amounted to more than 1.5% of GDP. If it had not happened, both countries would today be within the 3% limit. Yet no institution, neither the Commission nor the European Central Bank, nor any Member of this House, warned those governments against such easing. The system failed and we are all duty-bound to put it right. This is important, too, because the Stability and Growth Pact is not a judicial procedure, but a political procedure that relies on the support of the finance ministers for recommendations and, ultimately, sanctions. Ministers and the Commission must have a common understanding of how the Pact should be applied. There should be a clear code of conduct on the interpretation of the Pact so that it can be credible for the future. There must be a reinforcement of discipline in the good years and, in the short term, there must be an agreement on the size and speed of the adjustments necessary for the countries in breach to move back to balance. The Pact itself recognises that it will not always be possible to remedy excessive deficits immediately if there are special circumstances. Those special circumstances should now be defined to include the risk of a further prolongation of the recession in Germany and in France which, together, represent half of the euro area. It is not in anyone's interest to prolong the recession, nor is it in anyone's interest to undermine the credibility of the Pact. The law must be respected. With goodwill and imagination this circle can be squared. We urge the Commission and the finance ministers to do so. – Mr President, one of the biggest gaps in the anti-money laundering regime has been that it only applied to financial institutions. As successive international reports have made clear, lawyers and other professionals become vulnerable to exploitation as unwitting accomplices in the washing of dirty money from criminals and terrorists as banks tighten up, which, I am glad to say, they are at last having to do. I regard the outcome of the conciliation on this directive as satisfactory if it is interpreted in a common sense way. That means that lawyers, accountants and tax advisers must, outside a strict definition of legal privilege, report transactions that are suspicious, in other words, that they have reason to believe their client is involved in money laundering. This is the only feasible interpretation. There has been a huge amount of hype on this directive aimed at protecting lawyers' vested interests and not, I am afraid to say, individual rights. This has delayed the finalisation of the directive for an unnecessary six months. Parliament has not exactly covered itself with glory. I hope all Member States will declare that they have no intention of invoking the option to exempt lawyers from the ban on tipping off clients that the authorities have been alerted. We need to make sure that our legal and financial systems are not exploited, rather than concentrating on the position of the lawyers themselves and their own self-interest. – Mr President, I congratulate Mr Coelho on a very strong report, which is concrete and specific. He makes it clear that European citizenship not only supplements and complements national citizenship but also that the concept should adapt to include the rights of long-term resident foreign nationals. I would just take issue with him on one point. In 2004, elections to the Greater London Authority are due to take place one month before the European elections. I hope agreement will be reached to postpone them for one month so that they take place on the same day, which will help raise turnout and make a legitimate connection, in the sense of a Europe of the regions. Mr Coelho adopts a fully justified tone of impatience. The rights of people must not continue to lag behind the rights of goods. In several areas I fully support him: openness, transparency, freedom of information. In the EU we are still depressingly opaque and inaccessible. Information documents must become more available. Secondly, of course our citizens want protection against crime and terrorism, but there is a very poor level of democratic scrutiny in the area of police and judicial cooperation. We must improve this situation. Also, measures to combat crime and terrorism must have due regard to respect for human rights, including the right to a fair trial. The rapporteur stresses elimination of discrimination, on which I fully support him, but I would also add that respect for cultural traditions must not be at the expense of fundamental human rights. Lastly, life is too much of a hassle for people when they try to exercise their European rights, whether it be residence permits, family reunions, social security or access to justice. I have a constituent – and I have brought this to the attention of the Commissioner – against whom proceedings were brought in the civil courts in the UK and whose case was thrown out by the English High Court. Proceedings were then brought against her on the basis of exactly the same facts by the criminal courts in Spain and she suffered years of worry and expense, until the case was finally thrown out just a month or so ago. Why is there not mutual recognition of the same facts between a civil and a criminal case? My conclusion is that we need to reinforce our monitoring of the implementation of citizenship and human rights standards. We must take the opportunity of transforming a process which is currently being applied to the candidate countries into a genuine European Union peer review process, so that the standards of citizenship and human rights applied in each of our Member States is the concern of all of us on a cross-national basis. Mr President, I am pleased that EU leaders will finally address the case for legal migration, although we have to be clear that numbers or quotas must be set at national level and not by Brussels. The Council continues to focus mainly on keeping people out of Fortress Europe. We still have no agreement on integrating legal immigrants, or on core aspects of a common asylum system; no agreement on making racism illegal in criminal law, and no agreement on fighting human trafficking through protection of victims and encouraging them to be witnesses. For all the rhetoric, how many people-traffickers have actually been put behind bars? The summit will look at all the proposals for developing new databases on EU and foreign citizens, including biometric identifiers. This all raises big questions of privacy and civil liberties, but it has been done in secret and with no democratic control. Finally, I hope leaders will rectify their shameful failure so far to act jointly to secure release or a fair trial in a civil court for the 25 Europeans in Guantanamo Bay. We are meant to have a common foreign policy and a human rights policy. So far, for those citizens in Guantanamo Bay, there is little to show for this. I hope that will change at the summit. – Mr President, I want to talk about two matters on the summit agenda. The first is migration and asylum, the second is the Balkans. I am glad to say that yesterday the Commission gave a cool response to the British proposals to set up refugee detention centres in places like the Balkans because the difficulties of that would be considerable. I agree that there is a need to combat smuggling and trafficking through the orderly and managed arrival of refugees. Ideas like allowing asylum applications to be lodged in the home region, and then to have protected entry or resettlement schemes, are useful to pursue, but these must be complementary to the individual right to seek asylum, not replace it. We must not deny asylum seekers access to European Union territory. The Commission sensibly suggested looking at ways of allowing legal routes for migration. I warmly congratulate the Greek Presidency on its conference on managed migration in Athens last month, because the statistics are stunning: Europe is set to lose 15% of its population by 2050. The US population is going to increase by 40%. Our economies want migrants. The problem is that our societies do not and politicians have to lead an honest and brave debate on all the ramifications of immigration. We must at least agree – and I want the summit to do this – on an integration strategy, including better rights for long-term legal migrants. We must also remove asylum and immigration from the clutches of interior and public order ministers, because those ministers are preoccupied with internal security and repression. They do not have the proper mindset for discussing legal immigration. We have got ourselves into a mess and every repressive measure risks making matters worse. In fact hard borders may have increased the number of illegal immigrants and made them permanent because of the difficulty of going backwards and forwards. So to get order and control back into our asylum and immigration systems, we need three sound policies, not quick fixes and gimmicks: firstly, genuine sharing of responsibility, not shifting responsibility, but sharing both within the European Union and through partnership with countries of origin and local reception countries with substantial financial investment there; secondly, frontloading through investment in better-quality and therefore faster asylum decisions, as the Commission suggests; and lastly, access to legal immigration channels. I do not know the  envisaged by the British Government to tempt the Balkan countries into having these refugee camps, but I would like to suggest one topic that requires active and early consideration with the Balkan countries and that is a review of visa policies. As the presidents of the SAP countries said at their summit on Monday, the process of integration could be assisted greatly by offering a genuine hope to their citizens that soon they will be able to travel freely in the whole of Europe. I hope we will look at that soon. To conclude, I want to talk about the International Criminal Court. Romania, and now Albania, have signed US immunity agreements and Bosnia is under pressure. If we are to have a fruitful stabilisation and association process, how come the European Union and associated countries cannot work together to stop the US getting these agreements? Can you assure us there is no intention for European Union states to sign bilateral immunity agreements and that you will not let this process undermine efforts to persuade the Balkan countries to cooperate with the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague? I am sorry to say that other European Union countries have left the UK and the Netherlands holding the line on not ratifying the association agreements until Croatia cooperates. There has been no solidarity among European Union countries and that is disgraceful. – I regret to say I find that a rather thin answer. I am sorry if I made a mistake about the content of the 17 April conference but nonetheless, on many occasions, EU ministers in the Council have called for combating people-smuggling, people-trafficking and criminal gangs. I was disappointed that the Minister was unable to answer most of my points, saying that this has nothing to do with the Council and is more a matter for Member States. I would have thought that under Title VI of the EU Treaty – police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters – the Council could at least coordinate and give a fuller answer. The motivation behind my question is the gap between rhetoric and reality. It seems to be a low police priority in most Member States. The problem is that these women are both victims and illegal immigrants, but most governments treat them principally as illegal immigrants only. This misses two goals: giving them protection and catching the trafficking gangs. Governments have to decide if they really want to catch the traffickers, or if they only want headlines about how many illegal immigrants they have deported. Unless they make those choices they will never get to grips with the traffickers. – Mr President, this very good report shows Turkey is making progress towards Europe, but more is needed. For instance, 19 people are being prosecuted for insulting state officials because they attended a conference at which victims who had suffered torture in the form of rape in custody spoke out against their tormenters. It is not only women to whom this happens. It is clearly outrageous that the state should condemn the victims, rather than their aggressors. I call on the Turkish authorities to drop these shameful prosecutions. Secondly, I want to urge the Turkish government to take an initiative towards a political settlement with the Kurds. The PKK have observed the cease-fire for over two years. Its leader, Abdullah Ocalan, is appealing to the European Court of Human Rights against the unfairness of his trial. It is time to launch peace negotiations. Finally, now is not the time to eject 80 000 Kurds, breach environmental standards and human rights, in order to construct the Ilisu dam. It must not be built and EU governments, such as the UK government, must not grant export credit. Mr President, I want to raise the issue of various moves in some Member States, notably France, to ban the wearing of so-called overt religious symbols. The spotlight has fallen in particular on the hijab, the Muslim headscarf. In order to be consistent and non-discriminatory, any such bans would affect the Sikh turban, the Jewish kippa or skullcap, and Christian crosses. Such bans are misguided. Apart from the purely pragmatic argument that if you ban something then people want to do it, there are strong human rights arguments as to why banning is unacceptable. I refer in particular to Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which guarantees the right to manifest one's religious observance in public. These guarantees are, of course, echoed in our own Charter of Fundamental Rights. It must surely be arguable that a ban would breach the EU directive on equal treatment regardless of race or religion. Before France or other Member States find themselves condemned before the Strasbourg or Luxembourg courts they need to remember that a European model of integration rests on respect for differences and freedom to choose, not on illiberal imposition of uniformity. – Mr President, I celebrate the fact that this report brings nearer the prospect of safer car fronts and therefore fewer pedestrian, cyclist and motorcyclist deaths. Cars remain excessively and unnecessarily dangerous. Safer car fronts could save 2 000 lives a year at a cost of only EUR 30 or GBP 20 a car. I agree it should be possible to turn off daytime running lights. Indeed, I would want them banned in the United Kingdom because I think they reduce the visibility of motorbikes and make motorists feel superior and invulnerable. I am delighted at the ban on bullbars, not only when cars are sold, but also an as after-sales purchase. May I congratulate not only the rapporteur, but also my own colleague, Hermann Vermeer, for his excellent work in leading the search for a compromise and breaking the early deadlock between the two sides of the House, one insisting that voluntary agreements should never have a role, and the other saying that legislation should never have a role. I regret the attempt by the car industry lobby to discredit the EEVC tests. The report properly reminds us that EEVC is the institution which is at the forefront of research in road safety, with wide experience in the field of pedestrian protection in particular. While the EEVC and other test methods should continue to develop with new technologies, currently there are no equivalent tests, so those tests are for the moment standard. Just as I do not think that it is useful to be theological about voluntary agreements or legislation, nor do I think that it is useful to be theological about a particular kind of test, but there are no different standards at the moment. – I am grateful for the Minister's assurance that there is no pilot project so far. My understanding was that there was an intention to run one. I certainly do not see the point in passing the recommendation if it was not intended to be implemented. My alarm comes from the fact that the recommendation passed last November did not even acknowledge the risks of discrimination. That must be acknowledged because the network of fundamental rights experts pointed out that such profiling presents a major risk of discrimination. If one is to profile people by their characteristics, such as nationality and psycho-sociological features, and then decide from that who is likely to be a terrorist, one has to be very sure, it said, that there is a valid statistical link between the characteristics and the risks. I would like an assurance from the Minister that, if he has not done any pilot projects yet, if there are going to be any, or any real projects by Member States, he carries out that statistical exercise before allowing the projects to take place. – Mr President, Mrs Swiebel has done good work in her survey of human rights breaches in Member States and I am sad that the Christian Democrats and Conservatives are so opposed to it. Mr Cornillet was himself a distinguished previous rapporteur. Human rights issues are intensely political but it is a pity when they become the subject of partisan divisions. I hope we can get back to working together on the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, because the years ahead will see intensified challenges to, and dilemmas regarding, fundamental rights and we have to be even more systematic in our work. Briefly, I just want to mention and explain why the Liberal Group is seeking to remove the wording in paragraphs 83 and 84 which urges the Member States and the EU to ensure marriage is open to same-sex couples. We are certainly not opposed to this in principle, but this really is a matter for national decision, as in the Netherlands. Introducing the marriage issue distracts from the real priority, to which Liberals are absolutely committed, which is to give legal recognition to same-sex and unmarried partnerships: that really is a matter of fundamental rights. . – The ELDR group voted to take out the part of Amendment No 46 that seeks to confer 'data retention' powers on Member States; this is the power for governments to require telecoms operators and Internet Service Providers to keep traffic, billing and location data for possible access by law enforcement agencies. We do not disregard the case for some data retention for security purposes. But we oppose insertion in this Directive because the huge implications both for industry and civil liberties are not adequately addressed in this context. It is dangerous and premature to endorse a blanket EU regime of data retention as an add-on to a telecommunications single market package. Any imposition of these powers should be debated at national parliament level and then addressed in the context of EU cooperation on policing and crime-fighting, including guarantees for citizens' rights. This measure voted today is an internal market Directive, part of a package designed to open up the EU market to competition and enable telecoms companies and ISPs to operate on a level playing field. The original Commission proposal did not contain any reference to data retention powers, which was added by the Council of Ministers in its common position. – Mr President, if EU leaders were actually to deliver the goals set last week of the central role of the UN, an EU capacity in foreign and defence policy and strengthening the transatlantic partnership, most of the public would cheer. Our leaders are letting us down. One of the few silver linings of this illegitimate war is that even in the UK more people realise how crucial it is to have a single European voice. Chirac should realise that making the EU a rival of the US is a no-brainer. Blair needs to understand that the route to partnership with Washington is via Brussels. On Iraq, what was missing from the Summit conclusions was a reference to preserving the devolved administration of the Kurds in the north. The Kurds have been betrayed so often, but this time we must guarantee their freedom and identity. They must enjoy self-government within a federal democratic Iraq. I absolutely agree that Iraq must observe the Geneva Conventions on prisoners of war, but how hypocritical it is for Rumsfeld to insist on this while denying such protection to those prisoners illegally detained in Guantanamo Bay. Mr President, the President-in-Office of Council said that the European Union will not fail to give a welcome to legal migrants. This looks hypocritical since the Council agreed a very restrictive text on family reunion rights. Indeed it is so mean, that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market advises that the European Parliament should seek the annulment of this text in the European Court on grounds of a breach of the family rights provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights. I welcome that. The Council has been left in no doubt as to the strength of feeling in this House about the internment without due process of Guantanamo Bay prisoners. As co-rapporteur on this topic, I am helping to prepare a submission from this Parliament to the Supreme Court, but only the Council can make representations on behalf of the EU as a whole. It has already signed a legal cooperation agreement with the US, so the Americans cannot dispute the Council's legal status. It would be outrageous if governments  such as the UK Government  doing bilateral deals frustrated a Council initiative. Even if we get Europeans back from Guantanamo Bay, we must speak up for the rest of the 650 detainees. As we are showing on steel tariffs, if the EU punches its weight, the US takes notice. – Mr President, on a point of order: I just wanted to engage in 30 seconds of navel-gazing. I agree with everything that has been said about reform. But when we talk about reform, let us not forget the conditions in which backbench MEPs work in this House. David Martin reproached us for not spending more time in the Chamber, but one of the problems is the amount of time we waste getting to this place. I will not relaunch that debate, but anyone looking at this splendid Chamber and the palatial public spaces of this building would not believe the cramped conditions in which a backbench MEP works. Please do not forget, you important people who have spacious offices – even the secretaries-general of the political groups have office space four times that of a backbench MEP – that when you have an assistant and a  crammed into one office, you have no place in which to meet visitors. Mr President, will you at least pledge to back us in getting computers for MEPs, preferably flat-screen computers so we can fit them on to our desks in our tiny offices and be more efficient for the 21st century? I am sorry to raise such a brass-tacks issue: I know parliamentarians are always shy about raising the matter of their own working conditions but, frankly, unless we can be efficient in dealing with our work, we cannot deliver good service and present a good showcase to the world. I would not like people to look at the masses of space in the public areas and then come and see our little cramped offices, out of which we lose a third for a useless bathroom – but that is another matter. Please help us to be efficient, Mr President. . – Mr President, this proposal implements one of the most important commitments of the October 1999 Tampere Summit on justice and home affairs. This called for the legal status of long-term legally resident third-country nationals to be approximated to that of Member State nationals, so that they have a set of uniform rights as near as possible to those enjoyed by EU citizens. Thus its objective is that immigrants or refugees who have been legally resident for at least five years should be given EU long-term residence status. This proposal self-evidently does not cover people who are illegally present in the European Union. Nor does it apply to persons who are temporarily resident, such as students or those granted temporary protection. In view of the hesitations in some quarters, not least in some parts of the Council, it is important to stress that the EU is merely drawing out the logic of Member States having given some immigrants a legal right to stay long term. It is only adding an EU dimension. This EU dimension consists of social and legal justice inspired by the fundamental provisions of the EU Treaties, and hard-headed self-interest for the European economy and society. There are estimated to be up to 20 million people living legally in the European Union who have not taken, or who have not been permitted to take, citizenship of the Member State in which they live. One thinks of Turkish citizens in Germany, North Africans in France as two major communities. But there are eligible communities of a myriad of nationalities in all Member States. In my own, the United Kingdom, the last week estimated that half of the 2 million Muslims living there are foreign nationals. Most of these would have been Commonwealth immigrants arriving in the 1950s and 1960s. I will return to the UK position later. My wish to be rapporteur for this report stems partly from my commitment to combating racism. The fair treatment and active integration of third-country nationals, accompanied by measures to prevent discrimination, will assist in the fight against racism and xenophobia. This becomes all the time more, not less, important. It is strongly in the social and economic interests of the EU to integrate such people, and hypocritical, in the light of other EU policies, for us not to do so. There is great concern about the alienation of some immigrant communities and their social and economic disadvantage. There are also worrying reports of increased incidents of racially motivated harassment and hostility, especially since 11 September. The best means to counter all these factors is to ensure that the immense contribution of immigrants is facilitated, recognised and insisted upon. Rights equal to those of EU citizens in areas such as employment, education and social protection will enhance their economic contribution. Other measures would in addition enhance social integration. I draw attention to Amendments Nos 33 to 35, which I authored, on equal access to legal proceedings, participation in local life and voting rights, but I should immediately state that the new ELDR Amendment No 56 is intended to replace Amendment No 34, in order to clarify that it means participation in local community life, for instance in neighbourhood forums, and that Amendment No 35 is only aspirational in encouraging Member States to give local and European voting rights. The Green Group has re-tabled several of my original amendments that got voted down in committee. To be consistent, the ELDR will vote for them. Let me come to the delicate task of trying to get a balance in the vote on amendments so that all parts of this House can support this report. I should like to appeal to the Right to accept that a reasonable outcome would consist in taking some of their points, but not all of them. Thus a reference to the Council anti-terrorism measures in assessing threats to security is acceptable, but some of those go too far. In practical terms Amendment No 82 is acceptable, but not Amendment No 9. While it is acceptable to mention acquisition of knowledge of the host language as being fundamental to social integration, it goes too far to insist that this is a criterion for granting of EC residence status. I appeal to the Left not to let objections on points of detail obscure the big picture, so that we fulfil Parliament's long-held commitment to legal rights for third-country nationals. It is regrettable that the UK is opting out of this measure. Not only will this be socially unjust to UK residents, but it will also make the UK less attractive to talented professionals, a point made by business interests. I urge Parliament to rally to a consensus on this balanced and reasonable proposal. I also urge the Spanish Presidency to reach agreement in the Council as a demonstration of the seriousness of its commitment to social integration, and also to labour mobility, as will be called for again in the Barcelona Summit. We have 20 million residents who, by definition, are mobile. It would be hypocritical of us to deny them the right to move around the European Union. – When I tabled this question two months ago I did not know that, coincidentally, there would be a debate this afternoon on immigration and asylum. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for that reply. I do not underestimate the importance of the exchange of best practice on national integration policies and I pay tribute to the measures put in place in Denmark under his stewardship. However, we still do not have this directive. What kind of timetable is there to get this directive agreed? It will give the estimated 20 million people who are legally long-term residents in the European Union the legal framework of rights and obligations that will help to integrate them. Is it not ludicrous to keep calling for mobility of labour to boost economic growth while preventing those 20 million from going to work in another Member State? They are a rather obvious category of people who might be inclined to do that. Is there a timetable, is there a target date for getting this directive agreed? Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the astounding failure of the British Government – a Labour Government, although I cannot describe it as socialist – to respect EU anti-discrimination law. It has purported in recent months to implement both the race directive and the employment framework directive, but in both cases the scope of the new UK regulations falls short in key aspects of the protection conferred by the EU directives. The UK is therefore in apparent breach of EU law. As regards the race directive, the government has refused to give protection against discrimination based on colour, claiming the ban on discrimination based on racial or ethnic origin does not extend to colour. This is absurd, blinkered legalism at its worst and does no credit to the lead in Europe that UK race relations legislation has previously given. As regards the framework directive, regulations purporting to give effect to the EU directive's ban on discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation actually allow an employer to impose a requirement relating to sexual orientation, if the doctrine of the religion or the religious convictions of its followers so dictates. This is a direct result of lobbying by right-wing elements in the Church of England hostile to homosexuals. It could mean that a gay person could be refused a teaching job in a Church school, however devout they are. It is shameful that a government which six years ago was elected on a manifesto promising to end unjustifiable discrimination wherever it exists is ready to breach EU law to satisfy reactionary opinion. Mr President, one major contribution which the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights made to this report is the emphasis on access to environmental information as a right, not a concession. We also contributed the clause which says that the standards for Member States should also apply to the EU institutions. The contribution from my committee on practical arrangements incorporated in the final report includes a number of amendments which I am glad were taken up by the Environment Committee. I am talking for instance about the inclusion of nuclear fuel and energy and of financial as well as economic analyses, the establishment of accessible registers or lists of available information, the idea that the applicant cannot be charged more than a reasonable cost, which is the actual cost price of collecting the information, and the insistence that there must be a harm test for exceptions, i.e. harm must outweigh the benefits of disclosure. But as far as the scope of the proposal is concerned, I am rather disappointed, if not surprised, at the suggestion that the UK Government, British Labour and Conservative Members sought to exclude private companies whose activities affect the environment. This is the kind of loophole that allowed the previous Conservative government to exempt the privatised water companies. Those amendments failed but I am concerned that the amendment which did go through on Article 2(2)(c) might limit the scope too much. One of the purposes of the new proposal was to close up these previous loopholes which allowed privatised utilities to escape the obligation. The Commission text clearly covered privatised utilities. Does the Commissioner think the amendments on Article 2(2)(c) that were adopted by the Environment Committee ensure that privatised companies which supply gas, electricity, water and so on will still be under the obligation to supply this information? – Mr President, I just wanted to protest at the decision of a majority of the Conference of Presidents not to send a delegation from the European Parliament to the first hearing of the trial of Leyla Zana, who is of course a Sakharov Prize laureate. This decision was, I am glad to say, opposed by the Liberal Group and also by the GUE Group, but the Conservatives, Socialists and Green Group insisted on cancelling the delegation. There had been lobbying from the Turkish side not to go, on the grounds that this was a sensitive time in Turkey. Of course it is, but since the views of the Turkish population on Iraq are shared by most EU citizens, the EU as such should be neither more nor less popular than normal. It is always a sensitive time to raise human rights and Kurdish rights in Turkey, but if we do not, we let down Turkey itself and its prospects of getting into the EU. I therefore hope this House will join with me in deploring the majority decision in the Conference of Presidents. I understand that a delegation will be sent to the second hearing on 25 April 2003, and I hope that arguments will not be found to cancel that as well. The first decision was utterly deplorable. – Mr President, the only way to catch international and organised criminals is for our police, prosecutors and judges to work together. Anyone who opposes such moves must be prepared to justify traffickers and paedophiles getting off scot-free. I congratulate Mrs Klamt and Mrs Karamanou, but on some points my group is not entirely happy. The first problem, in both reports, is the tendency to be too prescriptive and interfering in the detail of Member States' criminal justice systems. The first example is penalties. It is quite right to harmonise the maximum sentences, so that wherever a criminal flees, he risks the same penalty – no hiding place. But it is not appropriate either to stipulate that the penalty in connection with trafficking must be a prison sentence or to lay down minimum penalties. I do not always agree with the Council, but I agree with its view that approximation of the criminal law of the Member States could be necessary for certain specific types of offences, but when approximating criminal law the specificity of the national systems has to be taken into account. Both reports are also too prescriptive on the treatment of victims and witnesses, and fail to take differing national arrangements into account. Turning to the definition of child pornography in the Karamanou report, my group has problems with the definition which includes creating the impression that the person depicted is a child. This will give rise to endless argument and is not a sound basis for a legal definition. It is better to target pornography which exploits real children, not pretend ones. I also wish to draw attention to Amendment No 38 from the ELDR, which would make access to sex offenders' registers subject to data protection rules. Lastly my group agrees with the referral back to committee of Mrs Klamt's report, for the reasons she gave. – Mr President, I hear what the minister says; I accept that the guidelines are better than nothing and I congratulate the Danish presidency on at least achieving them. But the legal advice given to the EU institutions was that a contracting party to the Rome Statute that concludes bilateral agreements outside the tight scope of Article 98 acts against the object and purpose of the Statute. Is it not true that the guidelines are really too weak to shut the door to impunity arrangements? I heard the minister refer to a common position. I would like to know whether the guidelines legally constitute a common position. Whether they do or not, will the Council at least seek to strengthen these rather vague guidelines of 30 September which allow loopholes contravening the Statute? That would give us a strengthened common position delivering additional safeguards. These should include: oversight of national pledges by the ICC; guarantees that the US will investigate and prosecute its own nationals accused of committing ICC crimes; a requirement on the US to update federal laws to ensure that its courts exercise jurisdiction over all ICC crimes – which is not the case at the moment; agreement to confine the scope to military personnel or closely allied civilian personnel – and not, for instance, mercenaries; inclusion of a sunset clause and the submission of the agreements for scrutiny by the relevant national parliaments. Mr President, on a point of order. I wanted to raise this point yesterday, but you did not authorise me to intervene. I want to draw your attention and that of Parliament to the fact that on 29 April the Council signed two legislative acts without having had the opinion of the European Parliament, the pretext being that it had fixed a deadline which we had not respected. I want to point out that the same pre-emptive deadline has been fixed for today on the draft agreement with the United States on the air passenger data transfers – the so-called PNR agreement. To avoid the will of Parliament being negated, I request that you send a formal request to the Presidents of the Council and the Commission that they should abstain from taking any decisions before the Court has given its judgment, especially during this electoral period. This would be the minimum that we could expect in the framework of loyal cooperation between the institutions. The delay should not be too long because the Court has already announced a deadline of 6 June for the parties to present their arguments and it seems that the Court is speeding up its proceedings and may well reach a judgment before the summer. In those circumstances, it does not seem too much to ask that the Council and the Commission should respect both our institution and the Court of Justice, and not undermine the rule of law, given that the Court is willing to progress speedily. I fear these two precedents on 29 April. I ask you to invite them formally to abstain from signing the agreement. .  Mr President, my committee's opinion was that the cooperation agreement should be approved, subject to the enforcement of the human rights clause. This would mean that we really do monitor respect for rights, such as freedom of speech and religion, and intervene when breaches occur. The EU has not always exploited such possibilities to the full, and Parliament should push harder in future. The Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights is well aware of the imperfect state of democracy and human rights in Pakistan. We are outraged at the discrimination and violence against women, at the continuation of the death penalty and at the persecution of minorities, especially religious and national ones. The role of the army is unacceptable and the intelligence services are far too powerful. However, this situation is more likely to improve if we are engaged in the dialogue that the agreement will create, and which will enable us to encourage the forces of progress and modernisation. The Pakistani diaspora in Europe, which is especially numerous in the UK, can play a very important role in conveying the human rights message. My impression is that they want this agreement concluded. They are right. .– While I voted in favour of the Swoboda report on financial assistance for Turkey for the pre-accession strategy, I believe that the EU should be talking more toughly to the Turkish Government about its human rights abuses especially towards the Kurds. It should also monitor fair distribution of the money. In view of renewed military repression in the Kurdish south-east – with the probable aim of provoking the PKK – and recent arrests and disappearances of activists in HADEP (a legal political party) it seems Turkey is going backwards rather than forwards in respect of the Copenhagen criteria. Mr President, on a point of order, I would not dream of trying to bounce you into making an announcement, but I am offering advice. You will find that, certainly in the committee, when the two Groups called for a separate vote in order to keep the amendments on the plenary agenda, they did not vote against a single one. Although the Rules of Procedure allow any Group to call for a separate vote on any amendment, we ought to try and flush out which ones they wish to vote truly separately on. I do not think we will find that there is a single negative vote in the two Groups against the amendments. There is a high degree of collusion, as others have said, in terms of one Group calling for split votes on all the others' amendments and that Group calling for split votes on all their colleagues' amendments. It is an attempt to subvert democracy and filibuster to a degree which is ludicrous. Mr President, you have your responsibilities, but you and your services are in danger of being subverted. – In the fight for security from terrorism, we have rightly proclaimed that we are defending fundamental values but, if we compromise individual rights in the pursuit of security, we will have sacrificed some of what we hold so dear. In the last two years since Tampere, the programme of cooperation on justice matters has been heavily weighted to the security side of the scales – especially since 11 September with the anti-terrorism package. All this is necessary, but it is time to rebalance the work programme. At the Laeken Summit, Heads of Government should commit themselves to a thorough review of the degree of respect in practice for the standards we have signed up to in the European Convention of Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights. There needs to be a programme to ensure observance of minimum standards of due process, fair trials in criminal proceedings and approximation of rights of defendants. We should project these standards in our international agreements because there are some worrying developments. In the UK, there are proposals for executive decisions for detention without trial and an attempt to avoid any significant degree of judicial review. In the United States, President Bush has signed an order providing for trial in military courts in the absence of fundamental safeguards for fair trial provided for in international law. The EU must not agree to any extradition agreement with the US whereby people could be convicted in these military tribunals. Finally, the case of the 14 British and Dutch plane-spotters detained for nearly five weeks in Greece without trial is extremely disturbing. They have been denied bail, the evidence has been presented in secret and there has been no transparent schedule of court hearings. They may be guilty at most of a misdemeanour. It will be a disgrace if the European arrest warrant is agreed this weekend and this situation has still not been resolved. I call, in particular, on Prime Minister Blair to withhold agreement if they have not been either charged or released by Friday. – Mr President, to get legal clarity on tendering rules in the EU, unfortunately the committee voted to delete most of the specific exemptions in favour of one very wide one, Amendment No 61. But it is open to legal and political challenge to simply cite democratic decision-making as a justification for exemption from EU legal rules for the internal market. I therefore commend the specific amendments from the ELDR Group – Amendments Nos 110 to 112. These would mean that authorities would be justified in not tendering metro and tram services if there were good reasons of cost, safety or risk of creating a permanent private monopoly rather than competition. Any claim for exemption would have to be justified to the European Commission. In addition, there are provisions for direct award of contracts in the absence of tenders or in emergencies. I appeal in particular to the left of this House. You take a big risk if you rely only on Amendments Nos 61 and 62. They may not survive the course and as an insurance policy we need specific provisions to protect large complex metro systems like London's from being split up for tendering or risking becoming a private monopoly. – Mr President, I welcome Mr Wiebenga's report, not only for its strengthening of the practical arrangements for sharing responsibility for Kosovo-type situations which I am sure our citizens can relate to as a demonstration of European solidarity, but also for Mr Wiebenga's insistence that a regime of temporary protection must not undermine and become a substitute for the Geneva Convention and the rights of beneficiaries to apply for asylum. Mr Wiebenga has added some useful, strengthening amendments to the clause already in the Commission proposal: for instance, on insisting on , to insist that the Dublin Convention shall not apply and that the host Member State shall consider the asylum application, and on the involvement of UNHCR. All these are to be welcomed. I am sorry that the PPE-DE Group insisted on forcing amendments to the article on family reunion. I feel the clause about unmarried partners which says that Member States may admit an unmarried partner if the legislation of the Member State treats unmarried couples in the same way as married couples is slightly perverse. I would have thought that it would be rather odd to treat them differently if domestic legislation did not. The other point I want to make is the contrast between Mr Wiebenga's report and the previous one by Mr Kirkhope. Mr Wiebenga's report is based on a Commission proposal in line with the Tampere conclusions and the scoreboard. It passed through our Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs constructively, without major dissension and results in a report which sensibly improves the Commission proposals. What a contrast to the series of Members States' proposals. Mr Vitorino said politely what many of us in Parliament are saying rather more rudely, that the Council and Member States need to get their act together on asylum and immigration. Mr Wiebenga's report has been a model of how we can work constructively between the Commission and Parliament. All we need is the Council to work as constructively with us. – Early this afternoon the President felt she needed to cut short and postpone the opportunity for Members to raise this matter. She felt she had to prioritise the debate on the future of Europe. But the future of Europe will be nothing if our people do not support us. This case is a perfect example of the impact on individuals of the quality or otherwise of European integration. Parliament had a chance to show its relevance to people and missed it in prime time. Our motion now clashes with the Presidential debate where most of our colleagues are. I find it difficult to believe that after nearly three weeks it has been impossible to clarify, let alone hear, the charges against the 12 Britons. I am also puzzled about the role the Greek air force has reportedly had in reviewing the charges as opposed to an independent prosecutor. The defendants have not had an opportunity to challenge the evidence in open court and now the higher tribunal to which the case has been referred is to be held in secret. Mr Souladakis said earlier that the Greek criminal justice authorities had respected all relevant rights. I am surprised that the European Convention on Human Rights is so weak. We might need a Europe-wide review with a view to reinforcing those standards and we certainly need that in parallel with the European arrest warrant. I call on the Greek authorities to clarify the charges, release the defendants on bail and hold a trial in open court by Friday of this week. – Mr President, on a point of order, as we are again discussing Legionella, my understanding of what you said earlier was that there was no guarantee that Legionella was not present. That is an important distinction. I should like to request that each Member of this Parliament receive a copy of the expert report. Could we also have details of what the law is in France regarding the occupation of buildings found to have Legionella in their systems and, if possible, information on what would happen in other Member States if a building was found to have Legionella in it? We can then see, firstly, whether this building is being treated in the same way as other buildings would be in France and, secondly, how that compares to buildings in other Member States? Madam President, Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza is deeply troubling and I would refer in that context to the shooting and subsequent death of my constituent Tom Hurndall. But the security threat to Israel is also very serious. It is fair to ask why, if the only point of the barrier is to stop suicide bombers, the barrier is not on the 'green line'? Why does it make such incursions into Palestinian territory and create such hardship? I do at least welcome the announcement two days ago that the barrier will be moved closer to the green line. I also welcome Prime Minister Sharon's intention to withdraw from the Gaza settlements. A senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington, Henry Siegman, wrote recently that support for the cause of Palestinian nationhood does not require denial of Jews to live in their own state. That is precisely my position: two states side by side, with the right of return of Palestinians largely to a state in the West Bank and Gaza. But it must be a viable state. Of course the achievement of this does not rest just on Israeli shoulders. Palestinians have to want peace and avoid terrorism. It is very difficult to contest Israel's right to make itself secure, when Palestinian leaders seem unable to stop suicide bombers. There are desperate people, but I am not convinced that desperation is the only basis for suicide bombers – they are also recruited and exploited. The Palestinian Authority is in crisis, not only because of Israeli hostility – although that is a strong factor – but also because of corruption and criminal lawlessness. I note that 350 activists resigned in protest last weekend from Yasser Arafat's Fatah movement. Perhaps this parallels the case taken by Israeli NGOs to the Israeli Supreme Court in protest against the barrier. The crucial priority is to get back to political negotiations. I am not convinced that the International Court of Justice case helps, because it diverts from that. What would help is grassroots democratic pressure, both in Israel and in Palestine. – Mr President, little new action on immigration and asylum will emerge from Seville. The Tampere agenda had three elements: control, harmonisation and integration. The Council has eagerly legislated on the first with half a dozen laws and a thirty-page action plan on illegal immigration, but it has lagged on harmonisation for a common asylum system and integration of minorities and migrants. That is where leaders need to give ministers a big kick but instead all they will really do is ratchet up the rhetoric of repression and hostility of fortress Europe. The most despicable and stupid proposal is the denial of development aid to countries which fail to stem migration, thereby making them even poorer and generating a new exodus of desperate people. The reality is that far from promoting the greater security Europe needs, the illiberal Blair-Aznar-Berlusconi trio risks creating greater threats for European citizens by their hysterical, populist and macho responses to current challenges. By their abusive hysteria about illegal immigrants and asylum seekers they demonise foreigners and generate more race tensions and suspicions. By their big brother extension of powers for police and security services to monitor people's email, Internet and telephone records they menace individual privacy. By banning organisations like the Kurdish PKK and Batasuna they remove political outlets for dissent as an alternative to terrorism. Accession countries are encouraged to seek EU membership as a beacon of democracy, liberty and tolerance but the Blair-Aznar-Berlusconi trio are making a mockery of that. Mr President, I welcome the prospect of Croatia's accession, not only in itself, but also, as Commissioner Verheugen said, as a practical demonstration of the EU's commitment to the eventual accession of other Balkan countries. I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he has received assurances from Croatia that it will help other countries in the region qualify for EU membership. I note in Commissioner Patten's report on the assessment by Carla Del Ponte that Croatia is complying in full with ICTY and doing all it can to find General Gotovina. Until recently we could not be sure that such efforts were genuinely being made. Is it the understanding of the Commissioner that the UK and the Netherlands will now ratify the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? The UK Minister for Europe has now declared himself convinced of the efforts to find General Gotovina. Previously this was not the case and he pointed out, for instance, that General Gotovina's lawyer knew how to find him, but nobody else did. This is very important, because if we do not carry on the search for General Gotovina, how can we push for the capture of Radavan Karadzic and General Mladic? – Mr President, what is ridiculous is that this Chamber, which is a political organisation, calls a state by an acronym. However, it seems to me the existing text provides an interesting balance. Certainly the title in the English version says "FYROM" and then the body of the paragraph sensibly says "Macedonia". Surely we can satisfy everybody with this text. Let us stick to this text. – Madam President, I would like to ask the Commissioner a question. He said that the only problem for a couple in a registered partnership was when one of them was a foreign national. If they are both EU nationals, under Article 18, they could both independently move to another State. That is true, but what they lose is the status of registered partnership and the tax or social rights that go with that - for instance, the right to be recognised as next of kin if one of them is in hospital. His answer does not address that issue. It is not just an immigration question, it is also a question of recognition as a family. I do not think he can just get around that, and I believe the mutual recognition argument has strong force, as in other sectors like criminal law. – Madam President, my group would also have liked to see the money laundering directive approved sooner. We would, indeed, have liked to have seen it wrapped up before the summer holidays. But it was Mrs Villiers' own group which held out against an obligation on lawyers to report suspicious transactions and therefore held up the final resolution of this matter for six months after our plenary vote in April. I am glad to say that the results of conciliation do not reflect that refusal and lawyers will have to contact the authorities when they have reason to believe their clients may be seeking advice in order to engage in money laundering. I am glad that is the final result. I deeply regret that it took so long. I am afraid it is Mrs Villiers's own group – indeed her own delegation within that group – which contributed to that lengthened and regrettable delay. *** –Mr President,I am glad to be able to raise this matter in the presence of the Commissioner for Transport, Mrs de Palacio, because it is scandalous that the French Government obliges us to come to Strasbourg and has exercised political and emotional pressure - some would say blackmail - to keep us here, but fails both to get a TGV line built and, even as owner of Air France, to ensure decent air services to this beautiful but inconveniently located city. Mr President, I commend you for recently taking up the question of Air France services to Strasbourg from London, as reflected in today's . Thank you. We face the prospect of cancellation of the direct flights from London Gatwick to Strasbourg from next month by the Air France subsidiary Britair. I understand Britair is going to court over subsidies to the new competitor Ryanair, which appear to breach state aid rules. There is a similar case going on in Belgium over Charleroi. Will you please keep up all possible pressure, perhaps in conjunction with Commissioner de Palacio, to ensure a decent air service as long as we have to remain in Strasbourg once a month, which I hope will not be for very much longer. – Mr President, it is appropriate I raise my point after this exchange because the greatest political excitement in the Brussels village at present is the machinations and intrigues on the fisheries policy, rather than the content of it which is of course very important. It is a great pity that we do not have the flexibility to insert on our agenda a debate on the threat of nuclear war in Asia between India and Pakistan. I wish to protest that we are navel-gazing and ignoring the greatest threat to the world's security today – a war in which millions of people could die. I am glad that Mr Solana, Mr Patten and Mr Straw have gone to the region, and I am not saying a European Parliament debate would be decisive, but we seem to be ignoring the issue. The European Parliament is therefore abdicating any claim to seek to build an effective EU common foreign and security policy. When such a threat is hanging over the world, to be honest, it puts some of what we have heard in the last quarter of an hour into perspective. – Mr President, the excellent work of both rapporteurs completes a remarkable series of reports by this Parliament on the implementation of Article 13. This first year of the 21st century has shown the EU institutions determined to entrench non-discrimination as a basic European value and fundamental human right. I want to concentrate especially on the Mann report and specifically Article 4. This would permit continued discrimination where it is an essential or genuine requirement. In particular, it provides that there can be occupational discrimination on religious grounds. This is clearly a powerful exception to the rule on non-discrimination. It must be justified on tight criteria and not abused. I therefore welcome the committee's amendments to that end, although I would prefer that Member States should be permitted but not obliged to offer such religious privileges. I have requested a split vote on the word 'shall' for that purpose. It is essential that discrimination on religious grounds should not be a pretext to discriminate against employees on other grounds, for example, because they are homosexual. I am sure that sensible and moderate religious organisations would not seek to do so to exploit this as a loophole. But we must not allow fundamentalists with prejudiced views of any religion to allow their views to prevail against the non-discrimination standards of secular society. I am aware that there is a rising tide of lobbies in politics which are seeking to extend the grip of religion in the public sphere. There is a proper sphere for religion. The compromise in this report allows plenty of space to religious organisations and it must not be abused. – Mr President, this is a straightforward case of illegal actions. Mr Tsiakourmas should be released and treated properly and his case should not be a weapon in a propaganda war between Greek and Turkish Cypriots, the latest manifestation of which is about which side has destroyed more of the other's culture. I am pleased to represent both communities as residents of London, and both deserve equal respect for themselves and their culture. I refuse to choose one side or the other. Our interest is in a united European Cyprus. The EU must get more engaged in the search for a political solution and it should press for mutual respect. We could perhaps give some funding to the preservation of both sides' cultural monuments. But in the meantime Mr Tsiakourmas must not be held hostage. Illegal action is illegal wherever it happens and this case must be solved without it becoming a weapon in a propaganda war. – Mr President, I am afraid I am going to break the consensus so far. The rapporteur has worked hard and I am therefore particularly sorry to say that my Liberal Group cannot unfortunately support most of his amendments. It is time to match the rhetoric about fighting money laundering with tough action. As someone who represents London, including the City of London, I am naturally supportive of financial services liberalisation. However, freedom of capital movements must not be exploited for undesirable purposes. Criminal money could give liberalisation a bad name. This means financial firms have an interest in making the safeguards work but so do other professionals such as accountants and lawyers who are vulnerable to being used as inadvertent conduits for dirty money. The European Parliament has itself made a strong call for the extension of a ten-year-old existing directive to cover non-financial activities and professions. As the money laundering defences of banks have strengthened, criminals have sought new ways of hiding their money. Therefore it is reasonable to call for other professionals to identify their clients properly and report suspicious transactions without narrowing too much the scope of the relevant activities. We cannot therefore follow Mr Lehne in his amendments on accountants and auditors. Turning to lawyers, they rightly get special treatment. The obligations of the directive would only apply in respect of certain financial and company law activities. My Group believes that the safeguards for the lawyer-client relationship, which is absolutely crucial, is adequate in the Council common position. The lobbying of lawyers' organisations against this common position has been somewhat exaggerated. Therefore we, in the ELDR Group, will not be supporting the Lehne amendments because we are extremely keen not to weaken the rules. There are some of Mr Lehne's amendments which are entirely sensible and we will support them but, I am afraid, not the majority. – Madam President, we welcome this initiative as another small step along the road towards fulfilling the Tampere mandate to make the principle of mutual recognition the cornerstone of judicial cooperation. It is right that within a developing area of freedom, security and justice Member States ought to begin laying the foundations for establishing trust in each other's legal systems. We need an EU legislative initiative to facilitate efficient cross-border cooperation and improve upon previous international legal instruments, which are often cumbersome and bureaucratic. Indeed, the 1991 Convention on the enforcement of criminal sentences – which otherwise would be relevant here – is not yet in force some ten years after it was signed. It is right for the EU to base cooperation on the concept of executing the decision of the issuing State, rather than that of deciding whether or not to grant cooperation in response to a request. The other international convention – the 1970 Convention – contains 13 grounds on which a request can be refused, so we can understand why the system does not work at the moment. However, many of us in this House are concerned not to allow the principle of mutual recognition to undermine the rights of the individual and in this field generally it is essential that the legal safeguards outlined not only in the European Convention on Human Rights but also, I would say to Mr Blokland, in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights – which ought to be legally enforceable – should be observed. My group would certainly agree with Mrs Cerdeira Morterero that we should use the existing system of contact points in the European Judicial Network, as it is pointless to keep reinventing the wheel with different systems of contact points for various initiatives. However, we have a core problem here: people who care about civil liberties – and here I include myself – are put on the spot about agreeing to measures of mutual recognition without having a comprehensive programme to raise the standard of observance of individual rights. My group believes that we need a comprehensive approach to this, and we are very much looking forward to the Commission White Paper on this subject. I have been reproached for agreeing to the European arrest warrant, while very strongly supporting individual rights. It is a challenge to all of us – Parliament, the Commission and the Council – to put in place those safeguards, because it is difficult to keep on agreeing until we have them. But my group believes that, with the Eurosceptics of the Right objecting to any cooperation in this field, we have to say that those of us who are not on the Right, who care about civil liberties, should agree to these measures but then put pressure on the Commission and the Council to have these citizens' safeguards. – Mr President, the good news is that the ICC has been successfully established with 139 countries having signed up and the president, prosecutor and judges appointed. It will prosecute the worst kind of crimes, such as genocide, mass slaughter, widespread rape and ethnic cleansing. It will help make the world a safer place. The European Union must live up to its leadership in establishing the Court by ensuring that all Member States fulfil their funding and legal obligations. The United States' opposition to the Court is totally irrational. There are ample checks and safeguards to prevent politically motivated prosecutions. It is absurd to claim that US peacekeepers would run the gauntlet of anti-American prejudice. US domestic political ideology is in conflict with American security interests. Surely an international court which signals that the international community will not allow gross breaches of law to go unpunished coincides with the objectives of the United States global security doctrine. We may not be able to stop the US from shooting itself in the foot, but we ought to be able to stop it shooting the rest of us in the foot. It is deploying the most outrageous bullying tactics to get small countries to sign bilateral immunity agreements. Six of the seven EU accession states which are candidates to NATO have not obtained a waiver and have had military aid cut off. It is alarming to see the Bush Administration pursuing its anti-ICC campaign to such lengths as to cut off military assistance to its allies in the war against terrorism. Indeed, most ICC member states are democracies with relatively strong commitment to the rule of law, so the aid cut-offs represent a sanction targeting states that abide by democratic values. That is extremely perverse. The Balkan states are in a very vulnerable position. Croatia and Bulgaria have refused to sign. Romania, Albania and Bosnia have granted immunity and Macedonia, too, I understand. It is no good just saying we regret that they do not live up to EU criteria. We have to both sanction and protect these accession and aspirant states. This is the kind of exercise which, if the EU cannot hang together, with its candidate and aspirant states, makes people despair of a common foreign and security policy. We should be able to do more and I hope we will be able to do so. Mr President, although this is an annual stocktaking we are close to the five-year assessment of the achievements of the Tampere programme and thought now needs to be given to Tampere II. We have to say that the Commission has done its job, but the Council's record is not outstanding. Both output and method need improvement. Looking first at asylum and immigration, we still do not have all the pieces of the jigsaw in place for common policies. Europeans need to have a sense that we are truly acting together to have well-regulated but fair systems in which responsibility is shared. But where is the solidarity in the disgraceful way that, one after another, 13 Member States have signalled they will impose restrictions on free movement from new Eastern Member States? States have been more zealous about toughening borders and deporting illegal immigrants and on making sure immigrants are legal and integrated. The Council passed a grudging directive on long-term immigrants and one on family reunification. However, there has been no rush to implement the 2002 anti-trafficking framework decision to catch the criminal gangs, and recently in the UK 19 Chinese immigrants tragically died. It appears they were trafficked, but there is no law in place. We have major challenges in Europe in addressing prejudice and discrimination and promoting equality. The challenge to integrate the Roma looms large on our agenda. I am delighted President Prodi is holding a seminar on anti-Semitism next week, but why has the Council failed to agree the framework decision on making racial harassment and racial attacks criminal offences? We need to enhance our understanding of what integration means as opposed to assimilation. Yesterday the French National Assembly voted overwhelmingly to ban the  and other overt religious symbols. We in Britain, where policewomen can wear the , look on this with cross-Channel bewilderment. In the area of anti-terrorism and law enforcement, there has been much useful activity, but a lack of balance in concern for civil liberties, democratic accountability and transparency. I am delighted the European Police College will be located in England, but less impressed that the UK Government, with 12 citizens and residents in Guantanamo Bay – half the total of Europeans there – has failed to take the lead in getting a common position and joint action by the European Union to persuade the US to apply international law and uphold prisoners' rights there. The Mutual Legal Assistance Agreement that was signed with the US, over our objections, stressed the rule of law, but does not seem to have borne any fruit. Now we are taking too many steps invading personal privacy – agreeing to let the US access sensitive air passenger data and to put biometric data on visas and passports – while making no efforts to get an instrument for data protection in the third pillar. This shows an extraordinarily cavalier attitude to individual rights. In the future we will need to make more of an effort to raise the quality of our observance of justice systems through a process of mutual surveillance and peer review. That is going to involve some interesting questions about where the balance lies between European common action and intervention in national systems. But we have to reinforce our efforts, because the quality of what we are doing on freedom, security and justice is not yet adequate. – Madam President, the objective of this important report is to produce an asylum system that is fair: fair on asylum seekers, but fair on taxpayers too. This report is not about who you should accept as a refugee, and I remind Mr Schmitt of that, but about how you decide which claims are valid. It is a great fallacy to assume that if you give asylum seekers less help in making their claims, they will somehow disappear and cost less time and money. Governments in search of populist headlines about the number of applications rejected from so-called bogus asylum seekers should tell the truth. The truth is that cutting corners early on in the procedure ends up costing a lot more in administration, court time, lawyers and the cost of food and shelter. I fear that Mr Schmitt did not understand this truth and has somehow misled Members of his group. I appeal therefore to those moderate Members of the Conservative/Christian Democrat Group to join the majority in this Parliament in strengthening the guarantees in the asylum procedure, because investment in high quality initial decisions including such matters as assistance with interpretation, legal advice, proper interviews and reasonable time limits, is a good bargain. Then on the question of fair treatment I would like to stress in particular the use of the safe third country concept. My group accepts the use of this concept as a guidance, but it must be one which is capable of being rebutted in an individual case. It is perfectly fair that an asylum seeker from, say, Canada, will have a greater job convincing the authorities that asylum is justified, compared to someone coming for example from Iraq. But it should be possible to make that case through individual assessment, not with a blanket dismissal of the claim. – Mr President, it is not often that I completely agree with my colleague in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, Mr von Boetticher, but this time I agree with him that we need a national choice regime to allow opt-out on e-mails and I am speaking against the socialist amendments. There is one great myth that has gripped the Left and that is that spam is the same as unsolicited e-mail. I am afraid to say, Commissioner, that the Commission is at the root of this confusion. In your original proposal you said that spam equals unsolicited e-mails. It is not true. I am afraid the spammers who are already breaking the law are going to carry on breaking the law. Mrs Paciotti, you will continue to get spam! I support the opt-out on two grounds. The first is that opt-in will unjustifiably harm both business and charities. Big American firms can afford TV advertising, press, billboard and so on. We are going to damage small- and medium-sized European firms for whom commercial e-mail provides a legitimate way into e-commerce. It is going to put them at a disadvantage. It is going to put charities at a disadvantage and studies show that people do not mind receiving them. They will not opt out even if they could. But of course it is human nature not to opt in to get them. There is also a misunderstanding about the civil liberties implications. Under opt-out, it is very easy to show that you have opted out and reputable senders have no interest in ignoring your request because they will just irritate you. Opt-in is superficially pro-consumer, but you would have to prove that you never opted in, which is actually more difficult. Finally, under an opt-in regime, people might opt to receive mailings from organisations that could be embarrassing for them, such as gay organisations when they did not wish to come out, or they could be open to malicious abuse. If they opted in to get mailings from subversive political movements they could find themselves attracting unwarranted surveillance from the police, for instance. The Left has got it wrong and for once Mr von Boetticher is right. Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the complete disarray regarding free movement of citizens from the new Member States. It now seems – but it is by no means certain – that, with a mere 11 weeks to go until 1 May, 13 Member States will take advantage of the facility to put obstacles in the way of free movement. This has led to a spotlight on the two remaining states – Ireland and the United Kingdom – and to hysterical press reactions about being swamped by benefit tourists. I hold no brief for the way the British press is reacting, nor for the rather uncertain reaction of the United Kingdom Government, but I believe that the original decision to allow full free movement was and is economically, politically and morally right. Commission forecasts show that maybe every year there would have been one mobile worker from the East for every 1000 inhabitants in the West, if it had been shared among all states. There may have been some justification for special measures in border areas, but the way this panic has spread and infected most Member States is shameful. It treats the new Member State citizens as second class, contrary to all the promises they were given, and it displays – as on so many other issues such as Iraq, the Constitution and the budget – a depressing lack of EU solidarity. Could you at least raise this with the Commission and Member States in the Council to try and make the transitional periods as brief as possible? – Madam President, the argument that the anti-terrorism measures and the European arrest warrant do not skimp on fundamental rights, is only sustainable if the protection system of the European Convention on Human Rights for defendants is adhered to in practice. But that is dependant on the ability of every single judge in the European Union to understand and apply ECHR provisions. We have no coherent EU programme to ensure they do. Lest I be thought chauvinist in raising the problem of Britons in Greece, let me criticise my own government in the UK. They are trying to put through an anti-terrorism bill with a derogation from the ECHR in order to detain suspects without a proper trial, with no legal representation, no judicial review and without being able to hear the evidence given by the intelligence services. This certainly leaves the UK lacking credibility in a campaign for mutual raising of standards in the EU. Another worrying development in the UK is the intention to let police and security cooperation measures slip through the Westminster Parliament without proper democratic scrutiny. Here we debate, but we have no equality with Ministers in deciding the legislation. Coupled with Council secrecy, this means a very unsatisfactory position in terms of democracy, justice and human rights. Finally, may I make a direct appeal to Commissioner Vitorino to ensure that organisations acting in the field of raising justice standards, such as the admirable Fair Trials Abroad, can be assisted under the Community budget. Mr President, after President Bush's endorsement of Mr Sharon's prejudgment of final status negotiations – ruling himself out as an even-handed peacebroker – it is easy to be discouraged about the prospects for the coexistence of a secure Israel and a viable Palestinian state, but that is the only real solution via the roadmap. It may well be that Israel keeping some key West Bank settlements and Palestinians accepting that the return of refugees will be to a Palestinian state – with which I personally agree – would indeed be part of an eventual negotiated settlement. The Quartet, with EU leadership, must disprove, however, Mr Sharon's claim that his plan constitutes a critical blow to Palestinian hopes of statehood. I am absolutely committed to the existence of Israel as a Jewish homeland and state – though one in which Arab Israelis have full, equal rights – and Israel's right to live in peace and security within recognised boundaries. My dismay at the occupation is not only about the misery of ordinary Palestinians but also how the role of colonial occupier is damaging Israel's integrity and its commitment to the rule of law. I condemn all terrorism against Israel and I do not see suicide bombers as purely the product of desperation among Palestinians – real though that desperation is. There is also exploitation of young people and a despicable culture of martyrdom in a perversion of Islam. The wall or fence might be capable of justification if it were on the Green Line – but it is not. The Bush-Sharon policy of military defeat will not ensure Israel's security. Hamas is a dangerous and uncompromising organisation dedicated to Israel's destruction, but the recent illegal assassinations of its leaders simply create more bitterness and recruits for terrorism. I am deeply worried about the rising incidence of anti-Semitism in Europe and take a strong interest in combating it, as well as other kinds of racial and religious prejudice. The delay by the EU Monitoring Centre in producing timely work on the threat to Europe's Jewish communities naturally fed suspicions about bias. We need renewed vigour in exposing and rooting out anti-Semitism and in establishing the dividing line between legitimate criticism of the policies of the Israeli Government and the demonisation of Jews. I understand the shock that Israelis must have felt at the poll last year that said that 59% of Europeans considered Israel a threat to world peace. I believe that many respondents read that question as being about the conflict between Israel and Palestinians, but it was deeply unhelpful to pose it in that way. However, the result was a wake-up call. We need a more intense EU-Israel dialogue. That is why I personally oppose any calls in the European Parliament to boycott Israel, and calls for cutting academic links are completely counterproductive. I have equally resisted moves to eliminate EU funding for the Palestinian Authority. I welcome the fact that it is Palestinians themselves calling for a clean-up of corruption, but Israel needs a negotiating partner and the sub-Saharan poverty level of Palestinians would be even greater without EU support. Finally, it is unworthy of Israel and its tradition of justice to persecute Mordechai Vanunu in a vindictive manner after his release. He has served his sentence and he should now be free. Mr President, Members such as myself have complained over the last five years that when the Council holds debates, purportedly about asylum and immigration as a whole, it only ever talks about combating illegal immigration. I am pleased to say that Mr Pirker's report turns that tendency on its head. In a report responding to a Commission communication specifically on illegal immigration, he pays a great deal of attention to how opening up legal migration channels can help combat smuggling and trafficking. Indeed, in his report, on which I also congratulate him, there are 15 references to illegal immigration. That is nearly matched by 11 references to legal migration. This is truly welcome. Like Mr Sørensen, I cannot share Mr Pirker's enthusiasm for a European corps of border guards. No-one seems to be clear what this means. Mr Pirker says it would just be a unit in support of national border guards and not a supranational body replacing them, but some Commission documents suggest that the ultimate aim is indeed some sort of supranational force with power over national authorities. It is dangerous to start going down this route without having a clear idea about the final destination. Obviously we need to have maximum coordination and exchanges to provide a more uniform level of security at external borders, but there is plenty more we can do about that before rushing into a centrally managed EU body that would raise all kinds of legal difficulties regarding border guards exercising power outside their own jurisdiction. There could be very practical problems. Imagine, for example, the case of Euro-guards stationed on a border where local pay rates were lower than elsewhere, and the resentment that would create among lower-paid local staff. We are already seeing that sort of thing in the Balkans. Finally, I urge the British Government to recognise the contradictions in its own approach. It constantly lectures other Member States on the need to strengthen external border controls, but refuses to make any constructive contribution to Schengen or to support the common immigration policy. This ambivalence cannot continue. – Mr President, there must be a common and effective EU contribution to the success of the UN World Conference Against Racism next year and its European preparatory conference next month. The EU has a human rights duty and competence to make all different, all equal, a reality. It can and must forcefully tackle race discrimination and xenophobia making the EU a world leader in the celebration of multicultural and ethnic diversity. Let us do it with wholehearted political conviction, not just as a diplomatic exercise. This question and motion outlines ways in which racism must be documented and prevented and sanctions implemented. Getting effective sanctions means firstly exploiting EU powers for anti-discrimination laws and agreeing the Article 13 Race Directive in record time sent the right signal of determination. Effectiveness also means stepping up intergovernmental police and judicial cooperation under Article 29 of the EU Treaty and ways to do that are explored here. We want to hear that the Member States will sign Protocol No 12 of the European Convention on Human Rights which makes discrimination a direct infringement of the convention on the occasion of the convention’s fiftieth anniversary in November. Other Members and Groups with many helpful amendments which I will accept, but there are some I cannot accept. Firstly, I regret that the opportunity has been taken to identify specific countries and parties as especially bad e.g. Amendments Nos 1, 3, 5 and 6. The trouble with singling out some countries but not others is that you do not make a comprehensive assessment. I therefore appeal to the sponsors of these amendments to consider withdrawing them. In particular I would appeal to Mr Ford to withdraw his Amendment No 1 even if I have sympathy with it since it would be a pity if a motion on these very important European and world conferences were derailed over Austria. – Madam President, I should like to endorse Mr Dupuis' remarks about not calling Macedonia "FYROM" and to recommend that the whole of Parliament align its practice with the Dutch text of this week's agenda which lists the Council and the Commission statements on Wednesday morning as being about "Macedonia", whereas the English text says "FYROM". Mr Dupuis is quite right. How can we expect a country to have an identity when it is called by an acronym? Let us please put an end to this nonsense. – Mr President, I want to speak on the linked issues of data protection and parliamentary accountability. The joint supervisory authority responsible for data protection is composed of a Member from each Member State. It is supposed to ensure that Europol respects the Convention's provisions on data protection. It has to review the activities of Europol in order to ensure that the rights of individuals are not violated by the storage, processing and utilisation of data held. It must monitor the permissibility of the transmission of data originating from Europol. It submits regular reports to the Council. The Convention itself, in several Council acts, lays down rules on the use of data and the communication of that data to third states and bodies. But to judge from the evidence given by the UK Member of the joint supervisory body to the House of Lords European Select Committee, we have reason to ask if we can have total confidence in the thoroughness with which the joint supervisory authority is doing its job. I therefore fully support the recommendation in the reports we are debating that this authority should report to both the Council and Parliament and should be available for questioning before the relevant committee, which would be the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. The evidence that worried me was given last November. Mr Francis Aldhouse, the Deputy Information Commissioner in the UK, was responding to questions about the Europol-US agreement on exchange of personal data. He discussed the difficulty of evaluating the adequacy of data protection in the United States – because they have no federal law or data protection authority, but rely largely on case-law, judicial supervision and audit. He expressed concern at the very wide provisions for transfer of data and the potential for abuse in the Europol-US agreement. But then, abdicating any responsibility for being vigilant and active, he concluded: 'I think we ought to take the view, particularly as between Western European countries and the United States, that here is a set of countries which take a pride in abiding by the rule of law and will honour their agreements. I share the view of my JSB colleagues that this is acceptable.' – i.e. that we trust the guys. I do not believe it is responsible for him to abdicate responsibility like this, and he is the UK Member on the joint supervisory body. The House of Lords was not impressed either and urged the body to adopt a robust approach to the protection of personal data in third country agreements. By requesting accountability to the European Parliament we can help ensure this, although we must also have partnership with national parliaments. A joint committee of European and national parliaments would be an excellent way forward. Mr President, the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline is being built and funded -including by taxpayers' money – through the World Bank, EBRD and European export credits, even though it does not meet international environmental and human rights standards. This report rightly demands the application of the EU Environmental Impact Assessment Directive. Now it appears the coating on pipeline joints is poor and likely to result in major oil leakage and pollution. BP apparently knew this a year before securing the backing of international funders. The credit should be suspended while an independent enquiry is carried out into the safety of the pipeline for local people and the environment, and also into its financial viability, if at least EUR 800 million needs to be spent relaying it. Turkey's guarantees to the BTC project regarding opt-outs from new environmental and social laws break its obligations under the EU Accession Partnership: they would be illegal if Turkey were already in the EU. The Commission has failed to act, so NGOs are now taking the matter to the European Court of Justice. We must help Turkey prepare to meet EU commitments, not break them. – Mr President, it is certainly necessary to improve the workings of the Dublin Convention and to transpose it into European Community law, with European Court and Parliament oversight. We must stop the problem of refugees 'in orbit'. Asylum seekers are not parcels to be passed around: they are real human beings who may or may not be entitled to humanitarian protection but, in any case, need to be treated with respect and dignity. Most will be exhausted, many disorientated, frightened or frail. It bears repeating time after time that the chief responsibilities of Member States are to process asylum claims expeditiously, to rapidly integrate those who are accepted and to remove those who are not. This does not mean cutting corners since cases decided sloppily or unfairly risk taking longer in the end because of appeals. This is not, in turn, to challenge the right of claimants to make appeals. One of my group's amendments would make appeals have suspensive effect. If they do not, and the claimant is transferred, they will not be able to keep in contact with the procedure or their lawyer, which is unfair. My Group also aims to further strengthen the provisions on family unity. One of our amendments would give greater rights of reunion to unmarried, including same-sex, couples. We are also sympathetic to the amendment from the Green Group, although I fear that this has less chance than ours. There must be further progress by a convergence of family law developments at national level, and EU immigration and free movement rules, in recognising unmarried partners as family, especially, but not only, those in registered partnerships. I very much hope the Socialist Group will support the very reasonable ELDR position. I understand the motivation of those wanting individual choice of the applicant to be the determinant of where an asylum claim is processed, rather than the State responsible for entry. But, alas, it cannot be feasible until there is a fully functioning common asylum and immigration system in which there are no artificial distortions influencing that choice. It also confuses asylum with immigration. The asylum system is based on urgently needing protection. If it is determined exclusively by choice of destination, we risk ultimately undermining its integrity. This new proposal has a clause which would oblige a Member State to take responsibility where it had knowingly tolerated people illegally on its territory for at least two months. This would cover the Sangatte Centre near Calais. I urge the French Government to recognise the logic and imperative of this, though I understand they are resisting it in the Council. We are going to have to face up sooner rather than later to the need to have an immigration route as well as an asylum route into the EU, as well as tackling the traffickers. But the situation at Sangatte cannot be allowed to fester. The Centre cannot be closed: that would be inhumane and just displace the problem. But it is disruptive and dangerous and the UK needs to recognise that this is its problem too. There must be a bilateral solution, urgently required, supported by the new Dublin II but reached through pragmatic bilateral agreement. – Mr President, this is a period when we confirm the end to historic divisions. Firstly I would like to say a word about Cyprus and urge a positive response from the Turkish Cypriot authorities to the Annan plan. I realise that Mr Denktash is sadly still very unwell, but it must be possible to signal agreement on this plan as the basis for negotiation. I know the majority of Turkish Cypriots want that positive response. Secondly, I urge support for Amendment No 24 to the report, tabled by the ELDR Group. This calls for the transformation of the accession monitoring process into a system of mutual peer review applicable to all Member States, old and new. This would ensure respect for democratic accountability, integrity of public administration, non-discrimination, civil liberties and the rule of law. We need to invest money, time and effort in our systems of democracy and justice throughout the European Union. The existing 15 Member States are certainly not perfect and we need to invest at least as much as we do in our agriculture. We spend a lot of time talking about agriculture and structural funds. We need to spend at least as much time talking about the underpinnings of democracy and justice in all our Member States, through mutually constructive evaluation. – Mr President, I want to make a point on the European Council in Ghent. It is a suggestion from the ELDR Group, the Greens and the Socialists on paragraph 7, where we each have tabled an amendment, Amendments Nos 13, 9 and 5 respectively. The suggestion is an oral amendment to merge all of them to add at the end of paragraph 7: "which adequately represents women, respects their human rights and ensures that Afghan women participate fully in building such a future". – Mr President, my group strongly supports the report by Mr Evans and welcomes its call for a high-quality common asylum policy. It is a curious feature of the construction of Europe that more opportunities for cross-border cooperation have been taken by commerce and criminals than by civil servants, and it is about time our national public administrations made a real effort to get out of their bunkers. The situation at Sangatte, near Calais, has featured often on television screens in my home country in recent months. The UK can reflect on why so many people wish to come to our country and especially to my city, London. I like to think, at least in part, that this is a compliment to our free and diverse society, but we cannot just have an open door, and maybe the French authorities need to reflect on whether their system could be improved. There must be an equal balance of effort and sharing of responsibility to prevent both forum shopping by asylum seekers and 'pass the parcel' by Member States. We also need consistency. It is illogical to be dismissive about people fleeing Iraq or Afghanistan, implying that they are undeserving scroungers, when by common agreement the regimes of those countries are deemed brutal and depressive, and even deserving of military attack. Even if not everyone from such countries can be judged refugees under the strict Geneva Convention criteria, but only as escaping mere misery, there is no call to demonise them. We must also be consistent about our attitude to women. If we think, as we do, that women's human rights in Afghanistan are grossly denied, we must take account of that in deciding asylum claims. Finally, we must not weaken or lower the standards of our asylum systems under the guise of fighting terrorism, as the British Home Secretary is threatening to do. There are adequate powers to detain and deport if security is threatened. Speedy decisions are those based on high-quality procedures and efficiency such as that offered by the functioning immigration service computers which the UK lacks – not on removing appeal rights for all applicants. – Mr President, our efforts to create an area of freedom, security and justice are dispersed and rather incoherent. Firstly, they are spread over half a dozen sections of the Treaties, from the third-pillar articles on intergovernmental police and judicial cooperation, to the provisions on asylum and immigration, to other scattered articles on fundamental rights, non-discrimination, EU citizenship and free movement. In this crucial area of creating a citizens' Europe, we start with a pretty incoherent framework. Our procedures are also inadequate; add to that the way in which Member States have showered upon us a host of uncoordinated initiatives, and it is not surprising that two years after the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force, we have a lot of frenetic activity but not enough real progress. We have big issues to deal with, from a policy on immigration, to combating racism and xenophobia, to ending the huge injustice of 20 million European residents having no right of movement, because they are third-country nationals. On asylum policy, it is crucial that we absolutely respect humanitarian obligations and practise coherent thinking. How can we speak derogatorily of the 1 000 Iraqi Kurds in the “East Sea” as illegal economic migrants, when NATO members, including my own Member State, are sufficiently conscious of their vulnerability to Saddam Hussein's persecution, as demonstrated in the past, to enforce a no-fly zone in northern Iraq? We really do not have much joined-up thinking on that subject. We must change the way we work, so as to make the area of freedom, security and justice as visible to the citizen as it is politically significant. Perhaps then we could have a debate which might attract a fuller chamber and convey something of the passion and vision that we heard from the President of the Federal Republic of Germany this morning. – I welcome very much this opportunity to take stock of progress and achievement in the area of Freedom, Security and Justice in 2002, as we do every year. Strictly, according to the Treaty we are supposed to do so only on Third Pillar matters of criminal law, police and judicial cooperation. That does not make any sense, so we allow ourselves to range a little wider, and bring in asylum and immigration as well. I confess that due to one of those artificial but practical demarcations we have to live with, my vision has not widened to include civil law measures on access to justice. They are dealt with in this House by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and I am representing the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. It is not very satisfactory, and our two committees ought to work together on this annual report. However, I am encouraged by the fact that my own committee is very united in its broad critique of progress in Justice and Home Affairs, even though we have robust disagreement on actual policy content. The questions we are putting today to the Council and the Commission reflect three broad strands of concern – coherence, balance and democratic accountability – that we have identified in the almost four years since the provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty came into force, and the three-and-a-half years since the Tampere Summit and the freedom, justice and security roadmap outlined in its conclusions. Our first concern is whether there is sufficient coherence in the work being done; whether the strategies, plans and scoreboards are being followed. We feel that the use by Member States of their right of initiative has been unhelpful to consistent progress through the work programme. If there was real consultation in the Council and a majority view that a proposal was truly needed to fill a gap in the Commission's output, that might be one thing. What we have in practice is a nice little opportunity for individual ministers, not necessarily even speaking coherently for their government, to stage a few press conferences for domestic consumption. While it is understandable that the terrible experiences of 11 September gave a boost to anti-terrorism measures and the European arrest warrant, the deflection from the parallel goals of boosting guarantees of fundamental rights and civil liberties is less understandable. We are only now on the brink of getting proposals for strengthening rights to a fair trial and legal enforcement of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. We are still lacking measures to protect data privacy against snooping on e-mails, telephone calls and Internet usage. There is also an obvious lack of coherence in the area of asylum policy, where there has not been a rapid and coherent achievement of all the elements of a common policy. We still have no agreement on matters like the definition of a refugee or the procedures for deciding asylum claims. Our second concern is the related issue of lack of balance. This can also be illustrated, particularly in the area of asylum and immigration, where there has been much emphasis on the repressive aspects, however necessary, of the fight against illegal immigration but very little on the goals of integration through family reunion and the legal rights of long-term migrants. Our last concern is the absence of sufficient democratic accountability. We welcome the report of Working Group X of the Convention. We support their conclusions, seeking to remove the impediments to the achievement of democratic accountability and coherent decision-making. They call for qualified majority voting to be the rule in the Council and for democratic scrutiny and full partnership with the European Parliament to be reinforced through an extension of the codecision procedure. We very much support that. We also want to see an end to the Third Pillar system for police and judicial cooperation and a much simpler and clearly discernible allocation of competences between EU and national levels. We would also like a political dialogue with national parliaments. We therefore ask the Council and Commission to answer the questions we have put to them today in the light of those concerns, which are shared across the spectrum of the political groups in our committee. Some progress was made, there was some activity in 2002, but the conclusion has to be 'could do better'. – I would also like to thank the Commissioner for his efforts and I hope I can without being pretentious assure him that the relatively low attendance in this House does not, I am sure,reflect the level of interest in this subject. I think, just as an aside, there is something weird about the procedures of this House that we spend an hour and a half voting at lunchtime but for such an important topic we do not enable people to be here in the numbers that would reflect the interest. I wanted to ask him about regional cooperation. Is he, and we as the European Union, making progress in convincing the players in the region that when we encourage them to have regional cooperation, this is not a diversion from a move towards Europe and to eventual membership of the European Union, assuming all the criteria will be met with no deadlines and timescales, but a step towards eventual EU membership? – Mr President, my vote on the report on Cyprus should be seen as a protest against its lack of balance, because I am not opposed to the entry of Cyprus to the European Union. On the contrary, I am keen to see Cyprus in, but I could not accept this unbalanced report, especially paragraph 4, and the failure to insist on at least on the desirability of having a political settlement prior to accession. In addition, the report called for the repatriation of settlers which presumably includes their children born and raised in Cyprus. Whatever the solution on settlers, and it is a thorny issue along with land restitution on both sides, this is too harsh without giving a qualification. The European Parliament has failed in its duty to reflect a balanced approach which I very much regret. Of course the Republic of Cyprus is the internationally recognised state but we should do more to recognise the rights as well as the duties of the Turkish-Cypriot community. .  Mr President, the General Secretary of the American National Council of Churches has recently branded the denial of human rights at Guantanamo Bay as a sin against God. I do not take a religious perspective, but it is clear that it is not only Europeans who feel strongly that the situation at Guantanamo Bay offends against our sense of justice. One of the senior justices in the United Kingdom, Lord Steyn, branded the proposed military tribunals at Guantanamo Bay as a stain on US justice and the term 'kangaroo court' springs to mind. The British Court of Appeal has branded the detention of prisoners there as a legal black hole. The Bush administration has argued that the Geneva Conventions are obsolete when it comes to dealing with terrorists and has chosen to apply neither these conventional laws of war nor the criminal law in which human rights norms should apply, that is the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights or the US Constitution. It has tried to straddle both by inventing a new, residual category of 'unlawful combatant' in the potentially unlimited war on terror, which is transformed from a metaphorical to a literal term. However, that status is unknown in international law. Sadly, the denial of the prisoners' right to access to normal civil courts and the protection of the US Constitution has been backed by the US courts on the grounds that Guantanamo Bay – even though the US is in actual control of the base – is not sovereign US territory. But it is welcome that the Supreme Court has now said it would decide on whether the US courts have jurisdiction. I would end by saying that I regret the absence of the Council in this debate since, as Commissioner Patten has pointed out, the Commission does not have jurisdiction, and the failure of the Council to adopt a common position and a strategy to implement the upholding of the rule of law in Guantanamo Bay is a sad omission. – Mr President, on a point of order I would have appreciated being given the floor before you called the vote. It is extraordinary that the plenary part-session should allow these appalling ethnic clashes last week in Gujerat to pass unremarked. They are one of the worst examples of ethnic violence, certainly in India, for a considerable time. They raise very worrying issues about India as a secular state. They also raise side issues which could affect Kashmir. It is quite extraordinary that Parliament has refused to take the opportunity to mark its views on this issue. It is quite extraordinary that we are debating clementines rather than ethnic violence in India, given the huge importance of that subject. – Mr President, there can be no compromise with those who hate freedom and democracy. There can be no tolerance of the intolerant. That said, we have more work to do to win hearts and minds in projecting a vision of Europe and the United States as beacons of human rights, non-discrimination, respect for difference and understanding of criticism. It is a paradox that young people in Africa and Asia gaze longingly at the American way of life while damning the United States as the 'great Satan'. We must show, for instance, that we understand the difference between religion that is moderate, reasonable and compassionate and the dogmatic fundamentalism that exists in all religions, not just Islam. But we must make a special effort to keep up a dialogue with Muslims and include them in European societies. We must demonstrably treat others as we wish our own citizens to be treated. Would it not have been a magnificent gesture and morally right to have offered to airlift out all the local victims of the Bali bomb, to show that we were not just looking after rich white westerners? Maybe it is still not too late to do something. The international fight against terrorism inevitably overlaps with the question of combating weapons of mass destruction. We are all conscious of the present developments regarding Iraq. The danger is that any pre-emptive action in the form of a war of conquest geared to regime change will leave the United States looking like an imperialist power in the Middle East. The backlash could create a whole new for terrorism. We must ensure openness and respect for liberty and democracy in the adoption of anti-terrorism measures, but in the 30-page terrorism roadmap you will only find Parliament mentioned four times. The Council is negotiating agreements on mutual legal assistance, extradition and exchange of personal data with the United States, involving Europol-FBI cooperation. In principle, that is fine, but there is no democratic or judicial scrutiny. Although the subject matter is justice and home affairs, where there is normally some parliamentary input, external agreements are negotiated without parliamentary scrutiny. This is unsatisfactory and weakens our claim to be defending liberty and democracy. d– Mr President, it is perhaps a pity we do not seem to have the same sense of urgency over this report, giving a right of citizens to access to information, as we have over telecoms liberalisation, but I shall pass over that. It is very important to emphasise that this directive does not grant a concession. It lays down practical arrangements for the exercise of a right which belongs to the citizens. So amendments, such as Nos 1, 5 and 10 which stress the existence of this right, are very important. Another aspect of the Committee's second reading report which should be stressed is the need to make sure that the dissemination of environmental information keeps up with modern means of communication technology. That is an important aspect that we would like to persuade the Council to take on board. The stress that is put on improving the quality of the information made available so that it is comprehensible, accurate and comparable is also very valuable. There is no point in having access to information if it is too complex or too opaque to be comprehensible to the layman – it renders such access meaningless. We also very much welcome the fact that the rapporteur seeks to ensure that any restriction on the right of information should only be allowed in specific, clearly-defined and exceptional cases. Also that there should be a 'harm' test, so that the harm must outweigh the benefits of disclosure if disclosure is to be denied. All these are very important. I welcome Mrs Korhola's acceptance of Amendment No 48 and, although she does not think it is perfect, I am very glad she can accept it. – Madam President, like Mr Wiebenga, I am amazed that the Christian Democrat/Conservative Group thinks that euthanasia laws in Member States are an appropriate matter to raise at European level. In the United Kingdom, Conservatives have been very quick to condemn European human rights guarantees as an outrageous interference in national affairs and as a breach of subsidiarity. We will no doubt hear a great deal from them on that theme in the next few weeks and months in the run-up to a British general election. It is quite extraordinary that they have supported raising the matter of euthanasia in a Member State at European level, and I note this for the forthcoming election campaign. – Mr President, the desperate situation at Fréthun, which I have also visited, demands a response on two fronts. The rail-freight operators and dependent businesses want a response which concentrates on the immediate and long-standing need for sufficient security to keep the freight moving. They are perfectly justified. Businesses should not be the fall-guys of government failure to cope with asylum-seekers. Businesses need fences at Fréthun, but that is also crucial to stop migrants dying. That is the responsibility of the SNCF and French government. I am shocked that the Socialist Group refused to put that in the motion. I call on them, especially British Labour MEPs, to back Amendment No 2 on this point. Amendment No 6 by the Socialist Group is hopelessly weak, letting governments off the hook. Businesses adversely affected also need finance and they need immediate support and compensation from the two governments. I will also be shocked if Labour MEPs vote against that. Amendment No 1 is an ELDR Group amendment, which calls for the strengthening of the current inadequate intervention powers of the Commission to clear obstructions to the free movement of goods. I am told the Conservatives are reluctant to support this, but I hope it is not true. The second response required in the Calais area is to address the asylum question in a humane and practical way. My group cannot support Amendment No 5 by the Socialist Group because it attributes the situation at Fréthun purely to pressure people feel to migrate from their home countries. Obviously that is the broad context, which is why the resolution in a paragraph I drafted says the long-term solution must be found in a concerted, European asylum policy. There is also stress on the need for a sensitive humanitarian approach. In the immediate future, the British and French governments must reach a practical agreement to process asylum claims on-site at the Sangatte centre, not close it – that would be counterproductive. But the Socialist Group amendment, probably deliberately, ignores the responsibility of the SNCF and the government to deal with the asylum pressures. This is unacceptable. The rail-freight operators are on the brink of collapse. Eight thousand workers could be out of a job. I urge support for the motion and for Amendments Nos 1 to 4. – Mr Morillon has written a good report stressing that neither religious objections nor geo-strategic considerations are the decisive factors for Turkey's accession. The challenge for Turkey in fulfilling the Copenhagen criteria is to reform not only the constitution but also its political and intellectual inspiration. In Western Europe ideas of pluralism and differentiated identities within the same State have led to recognition of cultural, linguistic and political rights and devolution. Turkey needs to adopt these modern European notions of diversity and the right to be different. The Kemalist ideology that was modern in 1930 is not so in 2000. Hence my amendments on the need for a political solution for the Kurdish people. It is unacceptable that the Commission omitted any mention of the Kurds from the accession partnership document, though they have been referred to in successive regular reports and Mr Verheugen mentioned them this morning. I hope Parliament and the Council will remedy that omission. It does not help Turkey or the European Union to fight shy of this issue, the biggest single cause of Turkey's poor human rights record. Until there is a solution for the Kurds there will be no fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria and I therefore call upon Parliament to pass my amendments, and on the Council and Parliament to insist that a solution for the Kurds is a key to unlocking the problems of Turkey fulfilling the Copenhagen criteria. – Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Stenzel for her very effective and useful report. I cannot claim to be a close observer or to have very detailed knowledge of the operations of the agency and therefore I find her report very valuable. As someone who for the last three years has been on the delegation to south-east Europe and more recently a vice-chair, I feel it is essential that we keep up and develop the financial assistance to allow the Balkan countries to aspire to the eventual goal, which must be membership of the European Union. I was one of those who was not convinced by the original decision to site the headquarters of the agency in Thessaloniki. It was the rather traditional story of doling out prizes to Member States. I may have slightly changed my view because Greece is playing a very valuable role in leading and in coordinating regional cooperation. Yet I think we need to reconsider whether this is the most effective way for an agency that has several different bases to operate. The agency is doing a good and essential job. It will be important over time to rationalise and if possible to expand our assistance to the Balkans. This assistance must evolve from reconstruction to development, just as it evolved from emergency aid to reconstruction. The network of agencies that are perhaps in danger of tripping over themselves in south-east Europe is a challenge we have to resolve. It is a very complex scene – a kind of alphabet soup. It is very difficult, even for someone in my position, to understand who does what and I am not sure what the impact is on the local citizens. Mrs Stenzel makes several valuable points, among which is the need for agreements with other donors on 'sharing' out who is responsible for what sector to avoid overlaps. She particularly mentions that the agency should take the lead on energy in Kosovo, with which I would agree. She also emphasises the need for a strategy on the future of the agency's relations with EU delegations. I wonder from my experience in Skopje whether we have not gone too far in bypassing the competence of the local Commission delegation. I felt there was a danger of the agency taking a slightly imperialist tone towards the local delegation. In view of the upcoming elections on 15 September, I am still not sure that we have reconstructed enough houses there. – I thank the Commissioner for his reply but have to say, nonetheless, that I find it a little disappointing. I am aware that it is being discussed in the crime prevention network, but it seems to me that there is scope for further action. Millions of mobile phones are stolen every year. Eurobarometer shows that up to one-third of people in Member States fear that they could be a victim. Also, with all the travel around the European Union, it has a cross-border dimension. Although, as you say, theft is an offence in all Member States, I am talking specifically of the offence of reprogramming the mobile phones. As far as I am aware that is only illegal in the UK. There is justification for an EU proposal to make that a crime everywhere. There is also a data protection problem. We must have consistent interpretation by data protection commissioners that the IMEI number is not personal data – which it is regarded as in Germany. – Mr President, on a point of order, I should like to ask you to write to President Bush and the Governor of Texas to protest against the execution by lethal injection of the British citizen, Jackie Elliott, last week, despite mounting evidence that he was innocent of the crime for which he had been convicted and was on death row for 16 years. There were numerous protests from the United Kingdom and people in prominent positions, and there was new evidence from police reports that pointed to other more likely suspects for the 1986 murder of which he was convicted, as well as urgent requests for crucial DNA testing. The Texas authorities pressed ahead with the scheduled execution, despite the fact that a number of key legal appeals had still to be heard by the Texas Criminal Court of Appeals. His local Member of Parliament - a senior cabinet minister - led the protests. This signals to the world a curious sort of respect by the American justice system for the rule of law and human rights. Let us at least ensure that such injustices do not go unnoticed. – Madam President, with regard to the Chechens, we risk being guilty of the same crime as European passivity towards the genocide of the Jews: the crime of indifference. Indifference makes us accomplices. 80 000 people have died in Chechnya since 1999. Hundreds of thousands have been made refugees. Yes, we appreciate Russian cooperation in the fight against terrorism, but that is no reason to turn a blind eye to humanitarian atrocities by both sides in Chechnya. The only way forward is negotiations for a political solution, a referendum and elections. The OSCE mission must be allowed to stay as an aid to that process, just as the Russians are in Kosovo. The Russians are trying to extradite Ahmed Zakayev, the envoy of the Chechen president. The Danish Government refused, due to lack of evidence of his participation in criminal acts. The British Government, now considering a similar request, should tell the Russians that, on the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in the EU, we recognise the considered Danish decision and refuse his extradition to Russia. Otherwise there is no point in having this principle of mutual recognition of national decisions within the European Union. Mr President, Secretary of State Colin Powell and President George Bush are both in Europe this week: Colin Powell to meet with EU Foreign Ministers and President Bush on a state visit to Britain. I hope that the Foreign Ministers and Prime Minister Blair will impress on their guests the need for transatlantic understanding to flow both ways. Europeans are rightly alarmed at the unilateralist policies of the US administration, its readiness to contemplate pre-emptive strikes and its refusal to internationalise the occupation of Iraq. Europeans are deeply unhappy at the prospect of military commissions imposing the death penalty or unlimited detention for the Guantanamo Bay detainees, and at the way the US is trying to sabotage the International Criminal Court. These are some of the reasons for the demonstrations against President Bush. They must be peaceful protests, and as such I personally intend to join them. I have just returned from Washington as an ad hoc member of the US delegation. Our hosts were gracious and hospitable, we had useful discussions and we have a huge amount in common. However, as well as us understanding their position, the Americans need to understand our objections, and our Foreign Ministers and Prime Minister must convey these objections this week. – Mr President, I am also just back from the Jenin visit and I share the distress of breaches of human rights law by both sides. We must ceaselessly remind Mr Arafat that suicide bombings are not only morally repugnant but also that they stop us helping him to get a Palestinian State. They play into Ariel Sharon's hands. The majority in this Parliament called two weeks ago for a suspension of the EU-Israel Association Agreement. I support an arms embargo but not sanctions, and I am even more convinced on my return that, while it may satisfy our desire to be seen to be doing something, this is a potential dead end. Presumably, they are meant to work through the Israeli public, feeling the painful bite of loss of exports and jobs, pressurising the Sharon Government to stop its crazy policies. But in Commissioner Patten's interview in Herat on Monday, it was indicated that Brussels was frustrated that the Israelis did not seem to appreciate the EU link. They regard us with distrust, rightly or wrongly. While Palestinians see themselves in a struggle for national liberation from oppressive Israeli occupation, 75 percent of Israelis see themselves as the principal victims, struggling for national survival. I am not commenting on the justification for these two narratives, but how can it help to cut off, as two British professors have urged, academic and intellectual exchanges? These are channels through which we Europeans could convey our experience of using mutual respect to overcome hatreds, helping Israelis and Palestinians strengthen their dialogue. How would it help to stop funding human rights NGOs in Israel? If we suspend the Association Agreement, we will merely reinforce the Israeli perception of a perfidious Europe. What will our exit strategy from trade sanctions be? What conditions would need to be satisfied to restore the Association Agreement? I have not heard anyone explain how that will work. It is much better, in my view, to focus on a different paragraph in our resolution: the need for an international force in Palestine. If our objective is to be effective in achieving a Palestinian State as soon as possible, and establishing peace and justice in the region, we should exert all our diplomatic efforts in that direction and not in suspending the chance for dialogue that we have. ( – Madam President, I just wanted to follow up the previous point of order and ask when are we going to be able to debate the proposals in Mr Corbett's report – which I understand are stuck in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs – so that this ludicrous procedure, with six pages of plenary amendments on one report, can be reformed. We will be a laughing stock if we do not reform and get our House in order. – Madam President, this proposal finally delivers on the 50-year-old promise to allow EU citizens and their families to reside in another Member State. It is great news for the cause of freedom. But to listen to some, including 'conservatives' in the British Labour Government, you would think it was all about facilitating illegal immigration and terrorism. It is time for this misinformed hysteria in the UK to stop. There are sufficient safeguards in this measure and in EU law. On the definition of family that EU citizens can take with them when they move, this must at least respect the law in the country of original residence. Why should a Swedish gay registered partnership lose all recognition of status when they move, for instance, to Italy? Governments, including the British one, are very happy to champion the mutual recognition principle in criminal penalties, including the European arrest warrant. Let us also champion it for freedom and rights for people, including British people. – Mr President, our voting list does not seem to be following the same order as yours. That may be our problem rather than yours, but could we just take a moment to clarify? We did not have Amendment 6 or Amendment 30, so we are a bit lost at the moment. Could my colleagues help me here? I think we have lost the page.  We have lost a whole page. It is OK. We will catch up. Mr President, I welcome this very good report and congratulate the rapporteur. I will say, however  and I do not say this to reproach Mr Moraes, or as a 'turf' issue  that it is a sad comment on the perceived definition of justice and home affairs in the EU institutions – that is, law enforcement and tough borders – that it is the social affairs side which is given the full lead on issues of citizenship and non-discrimination. We must place these human rights issues within the justice framework, as well as the social policy framework. The insistence on local and European voting rights for legal immigrants is a key issue. How can we possibly expect them to integrate if they are denied civic and political participation? An active approach to integration is overdue. The controversies over the wearing of the , the Muslim headscarf – or , as the French rather confusingly say – show how acute the arguments can be. The fascinating difference between, for example, French and British attitudes shows that there is no one definition of integration. What we should be clear about is that it does not mean assimilation. Integration is surely a two-way street in which all parties have to adjust to a dynamic and changing society. It is not a soft option; hard effort is needed not only from immigrants themselves – such as language learning and equality – but also from indigenous communities in accepting and learning from differences. Finally, I hope all of us here  and I know Mr Moraes does his best  will try to persuade our national governments to stop populist and mean measures that only collude with media hysteria. For instance, if asylum seekers were allowed to work, they could escape the jibe of being welfare scroungers, which is unfairly thrown at them and which gives such a bad start to their eventual integration if they get legal status. Madam President, I want to raise the case of a British man on death row in Ohio in the United States. Kenny Richey was convicted 16 years ago of arson and the murder of a two-year old girl who died in the fire. But new forensic evidence presented six years ago may well establish his innocence. However, he remains on death row and could be given an execution date any time. This is because US law provides that no new evidence can be introduced after a certain stage. The prosecutor has said: 'Even though this new evidence may establish Mr Richey's innocence, the Ohio and United States Constitution nonetheless allows him to be executed because the prosecution did not know that the scientific testimony offered at the trial was false and unreliable.' So they know his conviction is unsafe, but he could still be executed. That accounts for why Amnesty International has called it one of the most compelling cases of innocence human rights campaigners have ever seen. Madam President, I will be circulating an e-mail petition and would urge all colleagues to support it, either to have the case reviewed in the light of the new evidence, or, as a last resort, to appeal for clemency. – Mr President, one of the reasons that I was motivated to suggest this oral amendment which brings the three together is that in the English text, the Socialist amendment does not read very well. When it says we should include a "compromise in favour of Afghan women", that, in English, could be read as suggesting that we compromise the interests of Afghan women. It is not a happy wording in English. It means a settlement. "Compromise" is not a good translation of "That was one of the reasons why I ventured to suggest that we try to merge the three and therefore, in English, we get rid of the word "compromise", which is ambiguous. – I agree with the President-in-Office and the Commissioner that the conference can be described as a qualified success. It did get a bad press – in some respects deservedly – but those who say an international conference on racism was not worth holding are wrong. For the first time in 25 years of trying, international standards were set on the human rights of those vulnerable to racial discrimination. That is something to celebrate. We have a basis on which to build in order to tackle one of the great threats to freedom, justice and security in the world, including Europe. Admittedly, however, the conference did start badly. Firstly, there was the NGO forum. Although many of the forum sessions were very worthwhile and indeed inspiring, the NGO voice was hijacked by the proponents of reparations for slavery and those pursuing the line that Zionism is racism. These themes also dominated or sought to hijack the intergovernmental conference. There was gross anti-Semitic abuse with, for example, cartoons circulating that could have figured in Julius Streicher's publications from the 1930s. The document produced by the NGO forum was so bad that the Secretary-General, Mary Robinson, was unable to recommend it to the governments. Some NGOs, including Amnesty International, had to disassociate themselves from it. This was a great shame, because so many people had travelled to Durban with the serious intent to tell the world of real daily suffering. I particularly remember a woman talking about the problems of internal migrants in China. There were also individuals from many groups who suffer individual persecution such as Roma and Dalits, sometimes known as untouchables. Admittedly there was a degree of cynical hypocrisy shown by some states in hiding behind the demonisation of Israel and America, including some African countries with appalling records of ethnic discrimination or human rights violations, and Arab countries unwilling to come clean about their own role in the slave trade. This lack of honesty detracted from the conference. Opinions can differ about whether the US and Israel did the right thing in staying away. One can say that the position of Israel, at least, was impossible. But certainly the absence of the US pushed the European Union into the front line. One can ask if the EU was fully prepared for that. But, admirably led by Mr Michel, as has been said, it rose to the challenge. I have to give Mr Michel particular credit, even if he is my Liberal political colleague. He came for two days and stayed for a week. He displayed great personal commitment to ensure that the European Union spoke with one voice and a determination – even if sometimes a grim determination – to reach agreement. That success was realised. On the Middle East the language agreed was, on the whole, balanced. I also believe personally that the language on slavery struck the right tone in speaking of it now as being a crime against humanity. Clearly reparations were not the right means of redress to talk about. The irony of the situation would be that African Americans would seek to claim, not Africans, who were not subject to slave trading. Finally, one of my disappointments at Durban was that with the spotlight on international diplomacy rather than domestic records, the European Union struggled to find the space to highlight its own growing and increasingly solid record in tackling racism. It is a pity that the EU as such is not represented in the UN system, so that the Commission and Parliament are only observers, although the President-in-Office did a very good job. Clearly it was a pity that the Commissioner was prevented from attending for family reasons. We have to find a way of strengthening the ability of all the European institutions to carry on taking a leading role in international human rights and anti-discrimination work. Mr President, the EU and US should be the two principal forces leading the fight for human rights internationally. We can only do that if we are united in our assessment of what constitutes full respect for human rights and if we are credible through consistency between what we do at home and say abroad. There is a gulf of mutual incomprehension between the EU and the US. We think 'how can Americans insist on executing people, insist on boycotting the International Criminal Court and insist on denying Guantanamo bay detainees a fair trial?' There are about 18 EU citizens and residents incarcerated at Camp Delta. One of my London constituents, Feroz Abbasi, is among them. There must be joint EU pressure on the US to secure civilian trials with normal safeguards. The war on terror must not become an onslaught on civil liberties. If we permit unjustified surveillance, detention and discrimination against minorities, especially Muslims, we will weaken our moral credibility as well as foster more terrorism. The best maxim is 'practice what you preach'. Together, the EU and US are a formidable team. Divided, we weaken our power for human rights. – Thank you. The Minister is right. I do not want to dwell on the experience of my own constituents in Greece, but I will just start by saying that there was relief that the appeal court in Greece recognised the planespotters' innocence: so the justice system did work in the end and we are all very grateful for that. But certainly this and many other cases show that we do need to improve our criminal justice standards overall, throughout the European Union, on matters like the availability of interpretation and legal assistance and indeed judicial independence. I should add that I am critical of my own Member State, the United Kingdom, which is the only one of the 15 to subject people to detention without trial under anti-terrorism legislation so I am not criticising others while sparing my own country. But I would like to feel that the Minister was giving me some kind of response as to whether in his view the Council thinks this is an important priority. He said he could not comment on the European Convention on Human Rights but I think we are also talking about the implementation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. We are talking about the problems of implementing the European Arrest Warrant in some countries because of fears that there are not minimum standards throughout the EU. Could I get some kind of feeling from the Council that they consider this as important as the Commission does? – Mr President, on a point of order. I welcome the recent acquittal of the British and Dutch plane-spotters on spying charges in Greece and the fact that the appeal court had the integrity to put right the original miscarriage of justice that the conviction represented a year ago. I recall that it took many years to right similar wrongs in cases in the United Kingdom in the 1980s, so I am pleased that, although a year is an ordeal for the defendants, it was no longer. But the fact is this prosecution should never have happened and the way it developed raised a lot of concerns about the treatment of defendants and trial standards. It is therefore essential that we progress the agenda for ensuring high minimum procedural standards of justice for persons accused in criminal proceedings which the Commission will be putting forward in a proposed framework decision next year. We also need to put flesh on the bones of our human rights commitments in the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Mr President, I draw attention to the fact that in a recent Eurobarometer poll European voters identified the subject of immigration among the top four issues for the forthcoming election campaign. We have a situation in which Member States in the last five years have so far failed in their Treaty obligation to establish a common asylum and immigration policy offering a reassurance of orderly control of asylum and immigration, a level playing field and responsibility-sharing. They have made a complete mess of free movement from the new Member States and in some Member States – such as my own – there has been complete hysteria from the popular press; there is a worrying rise in anti-Semitism and Islamophobia; passions have been inflamed by the proposed ban in France on the wearing of headscarves, and so on. We therefore face quite a dangerous situation. Mr President, when you meet the heads of government at the forthcoming summit, would you ask them to do everything in their power to ensure that the subjects of immigration, asylum and the integration of immigrant communities are handled with sensitivity and tact so that we ensure that there is no extremist success at the forthcoming elections? – Mr President, just to add to that comment, the spokesman for Brit Air, the subsidiary of Air France which operated the flight, opined in  newspaper last week that even if the judgement against the Ryanair subsidy was confirmed, they might not re-establish the flight to Strasbourg, since they might find more profitable routes. This led me to write a letter that  printed, saying the European taxpayer would find it more profitable not to subsidise this EUR 169 million a year travelling circus to Strasbourg at all. – Mr President, we all acknowledge that there have been two problems in the achievement of common asylum and immigration policies: lack of speed and lack of balance. On the speed problem, there has been a spurt on asylum policy under the Danish presidency. I too pay tribute to the energy of Mr Haarder. However, on the question of balance, I still feel very frustrated that legal migration and rights of migrants have been neglected. There is so much criticism of migrants who fail to integrate, but little is done to assist them through, for example, family reunification or rights of free movement. Let us take, for example, the reception conditions directive which highlights the classic danger of the ‘lowest common denominator’ approach imposed by the unanimity rule. This is not Mr Haarder’s fault. After apparent agreement on the text last April, debate was reopened. The result was that the Germans got their way, and consequently there is no requirement to allow asylum seekers to work if a decision on their case is not forthcoming within a year. The British have got their way in that Member States will be allowed to refuse reception assistance where the asylum seeker cannot show that he has made his claim as soon as possible. If there was qualified majority voting and codecision with this Parliament, neither clause – I am sure – would be in this text since a more progressive majority would have prevailed. On the question of return, are we forcing women to return to Afghanistan, to an environment described by Human Rights Watch as being just as oppressive as it was under the Taliban? Spied on by teenage boys, women are marched to hospital and forced to undergo abusive gynaecological examinations to prove their chastity. They still have to wear the burkha, which is medieval. I suggest that we cannot guarantee the security of women returned to Afghanistan. I would like assurance that we are not returning women to Afghanistan. – Mr President, my group deplores the way this matter has been handled in the last few weeks. Both the vote in the Citizens' Rights Committee and the rapporteurs have been pushed aside and there has been a cosy stitch-up between the Presidency and the leadership of the two big groups. My group will uphold the committee agreement by voting for an opt-out system on directories to be possible. We will seek to take out the bureaucratic limitation that direct marketing -mails can only be for products similar to those previously bought. But our main concern is the attempt by the Council and the big groups to confer broad powers to require telecommunications companies and Internet service providers to keep data which map people's daily lives and contacts, that is traffic, billing, location data and so on for possible access by law enforcement agencies. We do not disregard the case for some data retention for security practices, but we oppose its insertion in this directive because the huge implications both for industry and civil liberties are not adequately addressed in this context. It is dangerous and premature, and surely of doubtful legality as Mr Cappato said, to endorse a blanket EU regime of data retention as an add-on to a telecommunications single market package. Any imposition of these powers should be debated at national parliament level and then addressed in the context of EU cooperation on policing and crime-fighting, including guarantees for citizens' rights. This measure today, being an internal market directive, is part of the package designed to open up the EU market to competition and enable telecoms and ISPs to operate on a level playing field. That is why the original Commission proposal did not contain any reference at all to data retention, which was added by the Council. I would be interested to hear the Commissioner's response on that. We need a proper and extensive public debate. Slipping through these huge powers in the slipstream of a liberalisation measure is quite inappropriate. Mr President, could you advise us before we vote as to whether there is any significance in the fact that the electorate on this issue will be different? Two weeks ago the European Parliament had a different composition from what it will have tomorrow. Is it right to re-run a vote with a different electorate? I would have thought that there is at least a question mark over that issue and I request that formal advice be provided on that point before we vote tomorrow. I agree with Mrs Buitenweg, and my Group opposed re-voting on this matter because it had already decided. The question is in the lap of the Court of Justice. It is important to know whether procedurally we are entitled to vote a second time. – Mr President, the Council should realise that it is heading for a great row if it carries on as in its complex package of 27 December, making legal definitions of who is a terrorist without any democratic scrutiny. I predict that the Council's next step will be to institute Europe-wide bans. It would be outrageous to do that in secret and without accountability. Turning to the framework decisions on combating terrorism and the European arrest warrant, my group will support them. For a normally sensible British journalist yesterday to say that Europe blindly, on the nod, is about to indulge in its own sinister overreach, really is over the top. My group will not vote to postpone the entry into force of the European arrest warrant until there are common minimum standards of procedural law. Urgent action to catch terrorists and criminals cannot be postponed, but the  amendment drafted so deftly by Mr MacCormick is very worthwhile. However, high minimum standards are also urgently needed in parallel. It is a fiction to say that, since we all have excellent justice systems, mutual recognition is enough. I could highlight flaws in the system of my own country – for example we have the highest number in prison of any EU State – as well as flaws in other Member States. The Council, as well as MEPs, must welcome proposals that the Commission is preparing on achieving equivalence in criminal justice standards. If some of the people who now oppose the European arrest warrant – in particular those on the right, not least in my own country – also cry "shock! horror!" at what they might claim is harmonisation of criminal justice systems, they will be guilty of great hypocrisy. We need the European arrest warrant; we also need a programme of equivalence in common minimum high standards. Mr President, I too appreciate greatly that the Greek Presidency has taken an enlightened approach to facilitating legal migration and integration, not just fighting illegal immigration. In an important presidency conference on the theme in Athens and in securing agreement on the family-reunion and long-term-residents directives you have gone some way to rebalance the EU agenda which has been much too focused until now on control and rejection. The EU's role in offering refugees protection has been under assault from some governments, notably the UK. I am glad that Thessaloniki rejected the preposterous suggestion that all EU asylum seekers should be driven back towards the Third World or EU fringe countries. The prospect of vast detention camps, raising the spectre of concentration camps, was rightly a step too far for some Member States. We need to get order in our asylum systems with a common EU system that does not shift responsibility but shares it. This would end the damaging rotation whereby first one country then another sees its numbers peak. We can only have a true partnership on migration with third countries if we offer their people adequate alternative opportunities, especially in agriculture. The CAP with its export subsidies and import protection is a gross barrier to trade justice. You have made some reform progress but not enough. My colleague Mr Watson rightly deplored the manner and content of the EU-US legal cooperation and extradition agreements. I agree with him. However, I welcome that the summit issued a clarion call of strong support for the International Criminal Court. The EU must stand up to the outrageous US bullying to undermine the court. Finally, the accession signing ceremony took place at the foot of the Acropolis where the new Parthenon museum is also located. I represent London where the British Museum is located, but I take a rather softer line than its director on the so-called Elgin Marbles and I hope some arrangement for transfer, even if only a loan, can be reached before next year's Olympics. – Mr President, Commissioner Bolkestein invited us to take a positive view of the Commission's action in the 17 February joint statement. I am sure the Commission was motivated by a genuine desire to rescue European airlines from being stuck between a rock and a hard place, in that if they complied with Community law on data protection they would be grounded and refused US landing rights, whereas if they gave into US demands they would fall foul of data protection authorities. However, the Commission made the wrong call, not least in consulting neither the European Parliament nor, previously, the National Data Protection Commissioners' Article 29 Working Party. It is disingenuous to try to claim that it is not an agreement. It is called a joint statement and it is also referred to in the text as an understanding of both sides which will be implemented. That, in plain English, is surely an agreement. However, it does not deliver legal certainty and the Chairman of the Article 29 Working Party has contested the assertion by the Commission that EU data protection authorities may not find it necessary to take enforcement actions – that is for breaches of the Data Protection Directive – against airlines complying with the US requirements. This is a stunning rebuff to the Commission. He said in essence that National Data Protection Commissioners and courts were not free to suspend application of relevant laws just on the say-so of the Commission. That must be right. It is a reminder to the Commission that if it will not be the guardian of Community law, then others have to be. The political groups are in wide agreement on this matter. The only point of contention is the amendment calling for the Commission to secure suspension of the US demands until there is a decision on compatibility with the Data Protection Directive, which means an Article 25(6) decision. The PPE-DE Group has not signed this amendment, and I understand they believe it would leave the airlines exposed. However, the Article 29 Working Party has stated that they are exposed anyway to sanction for breach of data protection legislation. Therefore it is academic. The text of the statement makes it quite clear that the Data Protection Directive applies, because it states that US customs will access the data in the territory of the Community. The basic problem is that the US has no data protection laws. This is a problem for the Europol Agreement and the EU-US Mutual Legal Assistance Agreement. There is huge concern about the balance between security and civil liberties being tipped too far towards security in the United States. In the light of various apparent miscarriages of justice recently in the US, the lack of control on use of data by other law enforcement agencies is of great concern. We need an Article 25(6) decision after consultation of this House. The Commission may have tried its best, but it did the wrong thing. – Mr President, on a point of order, I would like to insist that the chairman of my committee, Mr Hernández Mollar, speaks ahead of me. Mr Brok is right: this is a joint motion from the two committees. As the Liberal Group spokeswoman on the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, I wish the chairman of my committee to speak ahead of me. If the rules do not provide for that, they should. Let us be flexible enough to accept what should happen. .– The ELDR Group has voted for the Ferri report because we want to see a more effective and coordinated fight against organised crime in the EU through developing EU capabilities complementary to national criminal justice systems. But we opposed paragraph 5 calling for a (European) “Public Prosecutor’s office with jurisdiction over the Member States’ territory as a whole”, implying that the European-level prosecutor would substitute for national prosecuting authorities. We support an EPP working in parallel with national authorities, but not replacing them. We accepted paragraph 11 (b) as meaning an alignment of national definitions of serious offences so that criminals cannot escape justice by exploiting loopholes, but we are clear this does not mean the harmonisation of all national justice systems. We accepted paragraph 8 since we support a sensible rationalisation of working languages for essential cross-border cooperation between professionals such as judges and prosecutors on matters like extradition warrants. Although we supported paragraph 9, we feel the proposal for sanctions showed up weaknesses at the heart of the purely intergovernmental procedures currently in force. There are no means to enforce respect for agreed judicial assistance measures, as there would be if the area fell within Community competence. Mr President, I understand why Commissioner Verheugen feels cheated on the 1999 deal that the Greek Cypriot Government would facilitate a settlement if accession were unconditional. My own view in 1999 that accession was not feasible without unification. We should have kept both sides guessing in order to keep up the pressure. I was criticised for that view and accused of bias. However, it looks as if communication with Turkish Cypriots – convincing them that Europe is friendly and welcoming – has paid off. That kind of effort has also been undertaken by the European Commission in the face of legalistic objections. The EU institutions have perhaps let down the Greek Cypriots by failing sufficiently to challenge their version of history or to encourage them to realise that a compromise would be necessary – not a return to the pre-1974 situation. This House bears some of that responsibility. Mr Poos calls on Cypriots to leave nationalism at the door. I welcome that call. I just wish it had been made consistently on both communities over the last five years. If indeed the north votes 'yes' and the south 'no', the status quo cannot endure and a new assessment will be needed. Ways will have to be found to bring Turkish Cypriots out of their political and economic isolation. For instance, we must drop the requirement for Cypriots to have Greek mother tongue in order to be officials in the EU institutions. There must be a European Parliament delegation to Northern Cyprus. I am getting ahead of myself. I still hope very much that Greek Cypriots, as well as Turkish Cypriots, will vote 'yes' on Saturday. The World Bank predicts a huge growth spurt of 5% per annum if they do so. – I thank the President-in-Office of the Council for that reply, but is it not a fact that our trust in American civil liberties guarantees is being severely shaken and that it is a tragedy that in the United States, under the Bush administration, standards of fairness and due process are being sacrificed? Just two days ago a federal appeals court rejected attempts to clarify the legal situation of some Guantanamo Bay detainees, including two Britons. The court, in a decision that could leave the detainees in legal limbo indefinitely, said that foreigners had no rights under the US Constitution and could not invoke the jurisdiction of US courts to test the legality of restraints on their liberty. This shocking situation, which contrasts with what will be the case when the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights becomes binding – under which foreigners as well as EU citizens will have their basic rights guaranteed – comes hot on the heels of other miscarriages of justice such as the case of a Briton who was executed when a Texas judge refused to look at DNA evidence and another Briton held for three weeks in prison in South Africa because of FBI incompetence. In these circumstances, how can we trust the American criminal justice and law enforcement system? Should you not be consulting the European Parliament before making the agreements that the Council intends to make? Mr President, I would also like to pay tribute to the work of Commissioner Vitorino over the last five years. He really has been a splendid Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs. I hope we will see more of him, not least because he would help us achieve in justice and home affairs the equivalent of the Lisbon objective to make Europe the most dynamic and competitive economy in the world. Why do we not have a parallel formal objective, perhaps the Tampere objective, to make the enlarged European Union the international beacon of human rights, protection of civil liberties and keeping people safe? In justice and home affairs there is not the same sense of zeal from ministers about promoting freedom as about promoting security. Security is an aspect of freedom because no-one who is unsafe is free, but freedom is also an element in security and no-one is secure if their privacy is invaded or they are wrongly imprisoned or subject to discrimination. But the Council has failed to speak out against Guantanamo Bay internment and is trying to impose an agreement with the US on air passenger data transfers in breach of European data protection laws. It has also allowed restrictions on freedom of movement, as my Hungarian colleague has said. In the accession treaties there is a JHA safeguard clause, but it is focused exclusively on monitoring implementation of mutual recognition measures and framework decisions in criminal law. There is no clause which will check whether asylum seekers are being left destitute, equal rights are being denied to gay and lesbian people, or ethnic minority people are being abused. We must have a mechanism of ongoing peer review whereby we have mutual monitoring of the quality of Member States' justice systems. On immigration we need much better management in the future. Member States have agreed most of the common asylum policy, but have lowered standards of protection to do so. Very little is agreed for streamlining the red tape for legal migrants and there is an alarming absence of progressive and active engagement in how to respect diversity and have imaginative integration policies. The ceremony of raising the ten new flags yesterday was wonderful and moving, but the image it presented was exclusively white. In my city, one-third of the population is from ethnic minorities. We have to do better to serve our whole population with just and inclusive policies. – Mr President, it obviously makes sense to smooth out the difficulties involved in making two sets of legal systems work together to catch criminals and terrorists. Often in the field of law enforcement and intelligence different agencies are jealous of their patches and prerogatives, reluctant to share information because knowledge is power, and bureaucratic requirements must be examined critically. However, it is another matter altogether to justify brushing aside legal safeguards, defendants' rights and privacy concerns in the name of the war against terrorism. We have objections to these agreements on grounds of both procedure and content. As others have said, the degree of unwarranted secrecy imposed by the Council has been utterly scandalous. I am sorry to see that the Council is not here today. No adequate explanation has been given. The only possible explanation is the wish to avoid accountability to Parliament. The failure to consult the European Parliament formerly is a disgrace, and the justification for this democratic deficit – that the agreements fall under foreign rather than justice policy – is thin in the extreme. I very much hope the new EU Constitution will stop this ever happening again because we will have future agreements of this kind. I wish the European public could understand – and one day they will – that the real threat to their rights comes not from this Parliament or the Commission – the Community institutions – but from the arrogant, executive powers wielded in intergovernmental cabal by the Council. I just hope Commissioner Vitorino is right that the preamble and the text will ensure that no extradited European citizen or resident will face the death penalty, and that no European will end up in Guantánamo Bay without charge or without trial or will face a military tribunal which has the power to impose a death penalty without appeal. I also hope time will prove that the Member States' obligations to the International Court are not compromised, because otherwise there really will be outrage in the European public. We must solve the disgrace of Europeans in Guantánamo Bay before ratifying this agreement. I do not have the confidence in the Council that I have in Commissioner Vitorino. I am sorry the Council is not here today to hear our objections. – Mr President, progress towards stability in Macedonia is a real example of how cooperation between NATO, the EU and the US can have very beneficial effects. Commissioner Patten is absolutely right to say that the European Union has got its act together to a considerable extent in the Balkans. I also congratulate the coalition government in place since last September. Let us hope that Macedonia has indeed turned a corner and that the Ohrid Agreement will be fully implemented. A military presence is still necessary to deliver a secure atmosphere and the EU mission can and should carry out tasks such as weapons collection and training. For the EU to undertake its first military operation is a truly significant and historic milestone. Mr Brok is quite right to insist that it should not happen without consultation with the European Parliament. The fact that the finalisation of the details has been held up by wrangling over intelligence sharing between NATO and the EU is said to be purely a technical issue. It is illustrative of the interdependence between the two and what we have at stake in making this agreement work. It is right for the EU to take over from NATO and a convincing demonstration that we are serious about playing a larger security role. The internal problems facing Macedonia are not limited to military security threats, there are many policing challenges and the cancer of corruption and criminality, often violent criminality, is undermining the state. There are murky links between organised criminals and political extremists and in a neighbouring country, as we have just heard, the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic may be evidence of those links. There can be no economic progress or investment while lawlessness is rife. The Prime Minister of Macedonia wondered who would invest, build and hire new people in a country with constant shootings, a country in one third of whose territory travel after dark is not recommended. He is absolutely right: there is a very close link between security and the growth of the economy. I would like to mention again the problem of the name. The President-in-Office and the Commissioner use the formulation of FYROM – the former Yugoslavia Republic of Macedonia. I refuse to do that. I wish these negotiations over the name could get somewhere – they seem to drag on. Finally, I would like to urge those Member States that have not yet ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, to get on with it. This would send a very good signal to Macedonia. – Madam President, as I have declared it to other people already I thought it was only fair to declare it to this House that I will be abstaining because of pecuniary interests. – Mr President, I just am registering that I abstained on the Thorning-Schmidt report. My explanation of vote, if anyone can hear me, is that although we achieved a great deal for industry as a whole, and the rapporteur changed her view during the process of the report going through the European Parliament - in other words, she took hearing protection into account and moved towards weekly measurements, which I welcome - the amendment that we voted through in Parliament on its exemption for entertainment and leisure for five years while the Commission did a report on the special nature of the entertainment and leisure business was lost in conciliation. That was the reason for abstention. We gained some things for industry but lost some for the music and entertainment business. – Mr President, I have been requested to put an oral amendment. In the spirit of compromise and in order for this amendment to passed, I suggest that we add on the end of paragraph 37: "and to assist in the fight against terrorism". – Mr President, on a point of order. I should be grateful if the ashtrays could be removed again from outside the Chamber. The President asked for them to be removed and they were removed. People stopped smoking out there and they have now been returned. I understand that somebody has ordered their return, against the President's wishes. As I keep on having asthma attacks, I hope they will be removed again. – The point of order is as follows: this is such an important issue which affects British farmers across the UK that we should surely have more time to question the Commissioner. This is the first time that he has been able to come and tell us definitely that legal action is going to be taken, and we have a lot of questions. Can I request that we have some other time to ask the Commissioner questions? – Madam President, I am pleased that there has been an agreement. Obviously everybody is looking into the detail now and although we were very excited when we first got the agreement, I think a lot of people would agree that it is going to be quite difficult to find out whether it is going to benefit some of the smaller clubs – in particular, academy clubs – as much as we hoped. I know this has been touched on, but Stoke City in my constituency has an academy club as good as Manchester United and my fear is that it will get less money because it is not in the premier league. I would like the Commissioner to say whether she is going to look again at whether all clubs could be treated on the same level. I know FIFA has recommended it. I understand that a Hungarian player who has had his transfer put on hold is probably going to mount a legal challenge. What would happen if that legal challenge is successful? Would we then have to go back to the drawing-board? Mr President, I, on behalf of the ELDR Group, and the PPE-DE Group jointly tabled an amendment. Is it in order that PPE-DE Group can do a complete U-turn and table an oral amendment that is the opposite of its original amendment? At the same time, the Group seems to be are disagreeing completely with its Conservative colleagues – and the shadow rapporteur was a Conservative. What state has my amendment … Should the oral amendment not be taken after the vote on the amendment, because they are amending the paragraph, rather than the amendment I tabled? – Mr President, I would also like to add my thanks to Mrs Smet in particular for doing an excellent job of work on the working time directive and also, of course, to Mr Rocard and to you, yourself. I would agree with Philip Bushill-Matthews as well. I think the strength of having all-party support throughout the UK on our delegation was very, very useful. I would like to talk specifically about junior doctors. I am very pleased that they are going to be brought in line with the working time directive. There are 270 000 junior doctors across the EU who will be affected by this. 50.1% in my constituency work over 72 hours a week as do 10 000 in the UK as a whole. You can see from those figures that it is extremely important that all Member States actually meet those objectives and I mean the nine-year objective. The present situation is not good for patients or doctors alike – they have our life in their hands. We would not want to be treated by a drunken doctor and I do not believe that we should be treated by an over-tired doctor. Evidence proves that somebody who is impaired by tiredness is impaired in the same way as drunkenness. The British Medical Association was saying that 15% of junior doctors were leaving the profession citing stress, overwork and length of hours. A lot of those were going to Australia and New Zealand where the working practices were better. We have to stop that drain. The nine-year timetable, of course, is an improvement on what the Council of Ministers wanted. It is made up of four years' implementation and five years to bring down the working time from 58 to 48 hours. It is far better than what the Council wanted which was the 13-year period. I, of course, would have preferred a shorter time. As I have said before, our life is in their hands and it is important that we get this right. The UK Government, of course, was part of the problem. They maintain that they cannot achieve the reduction in this timescale. I believe that they are wrong and that is why we have the extension for two years and also the extension after that for one year. But as everyone else has said, it has to be in exceptional circumstances. There must be rigorous notification and justification procedures and I hope that the British Government, and other Member State governments who feel that they can delay further by seeking two years and then another will feel so embarrassed that they will not seek to do so and meet the goal in nine years. It is not twelve years – it is nine years and we must state that very, very clearly. It is long enough – I would have liked it to have been shorter, but let us hope the governments, and the British Government in particular, adhere to that. – Mr President, I am very disappointed at the delay, though I am delighted now that we are going to have clear compulsory labelling. I hope this will restore consumer confidence in beef, especially after the BSE crisis. I would like to see not only the country but also the region of origin on the label. I represent the West Midlands which has some of the best beef in the world – Herefordshire beef and Shropshire beef. I should like to see that go on the label. I would oppose very strongly the idea that "EU" should be on the label and not the country and region of origin. I am also concerned about some of the words that might go on the label. One of those words is "slaughtered". That will not help with consumer confidence and might put some of the consumers off if they actually see where the animal was "slaughtered". I wish we could find a new word for it. Generally speaking, I am delighted that at last we are going to have clear labelling and, as I said, I want it to be the country and region of origin. – Mr President, I congratulate Stephen Hughes on his report. I believe that we have to have a level playing field for hauliers across the EU, because they travel across borders all the time. We are very concerned that some hauliers will be able to undercut their counterparts from other Member States if we do not pass this directive. Consequently, it is also important that we include self-employed workers. I know that my colleague said that the ELDR Group was against including self-employed workers, but in actual fact we were rather split on this and a sizeable minority of us actually believe that self-employed workers should be included. I believe that they should be included for several reasons, but the main one is again that they can undercut the other hauliers, and this will have tremendous health and safety implications. I am also afraid that some of the more unscrupulous employers will make those hauliers self-employed just to get round this legislation. That will lead to not only more deaths on the road, but to health problems for the hauliers themselves. I would like to also draw attention to the need that Stephen Hughes talked about of giving drivers an appropriate length of time before they take out a load. I know that Mr Hughes was talking about a 24 hour period. I put forward the compromise amendment of 12 hours' notice before the load was taken out and am very pleased that he has agreed to that amendment. It is only right that hauliers should be allowed some time to sleep, particularly before going on long journeys. I sincerely hope we are going to vote for this directive and include self-employed workers. It is a step in the right direction towards providing health and safety not only for the hauliers, but for other road users as well. .  Mr President, I should like to say thank you to the sign language interpreters. I wish we could have sign language interpretation every plenary session, for every report. I should also like to thank everyone who has helped me to write this report: all the MEPs that have worked very hard with me to come up with compromise amendments; the Commission; and especially disabled people's organisations. I have taken a lot of advice on this report. That is why it is a good one. It is not my report. It is a report that has been brought together with the help of disabled people. I am delighted that the UN ad hoc Committee, between 16 and 27 June 2003, decided on a specific convention on disabled people's rights. I believe only a specific, legally-binding convention will do, rather than any other instrument. But there must be a monitoring mechanism to see how disabled people are treated in practice across the world. I put in my report a list of rights that should be included in any UN convention. It is a non-exhaustive list because of space. However, I called for a mainly rights-based approach to get away, once and for all, from the medical model of disability and to cover all forms of disability, whether it is a person using a wheelchair, or somebody with another mobility problem, a hearing impairment, a visual impairment, a learning disability, a mental health problem or any other hidden disability. We must be inclusive. There are 37 million disabled people in the European Union. There are 600 million disabled people world-wide. There has already been some progress in the United Nations: the 1981 World Programme of Action and the 1993 Standard Rules on Equalisation of Opportunities for People with Disabilities, to name but two. At EU level there has also been progress: in 1997, for instance, Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam brought forward the employment directive and the Action Programme. But as I said in my report, we now need a specific disability directive at EU level. We need all Member States to implement the current employment directive that is due to be implemented this year. There are many Member States that have not even started to look at implementation. Even if we did get it right at European level, 80% of disabled people come from developing countries. That is why we need a legally-binding convention covering a whole raft of different rights, including the right to quality of life. That also means protection from degrading and inhumane treatment. That includes institutionalisation. We need to see access to employment because a vast majority of disabled people do not have employment. We need access to vocational training, education and the right to inclusion, which is so important. That means access to buildings, access to live as independent a life as possible, and access to public transport. If people do not have access to public transport they cannot get to their place of work. Then we look at civil and political rights. I believe very strongly in equal citizenship, as do most of us here. That means no more 'rights for disabled people', but 'equal rights for disabled people'. Those equal rights mean access to financial support as well; access to health care, access to culture and leisure – including sporting activities, equality before the law and the right to justice. I understand that a split vote has been asked for so that only organisations of disabled people, rather than organisations representing disabled people, will be consulted over this. Let us remember that we deal with developing countries here! Many do not have organisations of disabled people. They only have organisations representing disabled people. Are we going to exclude them? We are not just dealing with the European Union. This is a world-wide convention. Even within the EU there are many organisations that would be left out, including the Royal National Institute for the Deaf in the UK, and, more importantly, people with profound learning disabilities and severe mental problems, who quite often need an advocate to speak on their behalf. I urge you to vote for this report in its entirety and not be tempted to vote in the split vote. Mr President, I am pleased that the Commission brought forward the consultation document. It would have been useful, however, to have brought it forward before Mr Cercas drew up the report, but I am very pleased that we were able to table oral amendments. Nevertheless this is not the ideal way of working and I would like to register that point. I tabled a number of amendments, a lot of them with the PPE-DE Group, and some of my own. The main point – and I am very pleased the Commissioner touched on this – is that the individual opt-out should be kept, but that it should be truly voluntary and measures should be taken to tackle any abuse. But as Mr Bushill-Matthews said, that abuse is not as widespread in the UK as the rapporteur leads us to believe. Indeed, as Mr Bushill-Matthews and the rapporteur have repeatedly said, the authors of the research – Barnard, Deakin and Hobbs – stated that the abuse was widespread. Those people have distanced themselves from what you have written in your report and indeed would distance themselves from your statement today. To answer Mr Hughes' point, one of the reasons for maintaining the opt-out is that in the UK we do not have collective agreements. That is one of the main reasons we use the opt-out. Other Member States use derogations because they have collective agreements. Decisions can be made between both sides of industry: trade unions and employers will get together and decide what they want to do on the Working Time Directive. But because we do not have that – at least not to any great extent – we need the flexibility for our businesses to be able to cope. Wages are not a competence of the EU, nor should they be. We should not be discussing pay. But workers in the UK are on low wages, even though we have a national minimum wage. They quite often add to their take-home pay by doing overtime. If we get rid of the opt-out, there will be many cases of workers not being able to do overtime and therefore not getting a reasonable pay level. We are not the only country that uses it either: Germany, France, the Netherlands, Spain and Luxembourg are all either using it or going to use it in the health or catering industries. Another problem is the length of reference period. Tourism and agriculture have a particular problem because of different working patterns and because of the times of year that they work. The Commission must also look at the SIMAP and Jaeger judgments. It is very important that we do that on health and come forward with proposals. I hope enough MEPs will join us tomorrow when we vote, in particular those Labour MEPs who voted against us in committee and against the UK Labour Government. . – Mr President, I welcome the sign language interpreter. I only wish that we could have sign language interpretation for all our debates to make sure that all people could access all the reports. The timing of this debate is very sad, when so few Members are present in the Chamber and, even more importantly, to vote later. It is very important to demonstrate our commitment to disabled people. Putting the report right at the end of a Strasbourg agenda does not demonstrate any commitment. Having said that, I thank the Commission for their cooperation on my report and all the other Members of the European Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. I have managed to incorporate a number of their amendments. I believe that is one of the main reasons why we do not have any new amendments today. The European Year of Disabled People, 2003 must not just pay lip service to the problems that disabled people face. We need to have concrete outcomes. For a start, we must truly move away from the medical model of disability to the social and rights-based model of disability. We must make sure that we mainstream disabled people; that all legislation takes account of the specific needs of disabled people, whether they are wheelchair users, someone with a visual impairment, someone with a hearing impairment, someone with a learning difficulty, or someone with a mental health problem. All EU citizens should have equal rights. I hope that in 2003 – if not before – we make sure that all of Parliament's buildings are accessible to disabled people – they are not at the moment – and that all EU Member States are aware of the problems that disabled people face. I shall tell you a story about what happened to Jenny, one of my constituents, the coordinator of Access Charter. I invited her over to the Article 13 Anti-Discrimination hearings. She uses a wheelchair. For a start, she could not get into the Parliament's buildings in Brussels without going through revolving doors because they refused to open the double doors. I remonstrated with them. They unlocked them, took off the rope that was binding them and then 20 minutes later they were locked and bound again. We booked her a hotel room with disabled people's access. Somebody had put a bed across the bathroom door and so she could not get in. She had to change hotels. She then went out to try to get something to eat at night, with her colleagues – remember she was using a wheelchair. No taxi in Brussels would stop for her. She managed to get to a restaurant. The manager then came out and said "You can't come in here. Your appearance will put off other diners." When she got to the airport she was subjected to a full body search. She remonstrated with the security people. One of them said: "Have a nice trip. I hope your plane crashes."! That demonstrates the problems that disabled people face and the real need for a disability directive. I hope we will hear the announcement of that in 2003. We have to have funding for major research into the status of disabled people. We have to have a study into the situation disabled people face in institutions in particular. It is essential that regional and local government are involved in this year but, more importantly, that organisations of disabled people and representing disabled people are involved in this year. I have called specifically for a funding increase from EUR 12 million to EUR 15 million over the two years. Particularly for sign language interpretation, for personal assistance, for accessible meeting rooms, for hotels etc., there are added costs; in addition, funding for impairment-specific NGOs is only for 2002, not for the year itself. Furthermore, in line with the Article 13 Action Programme on Anti-Discrimination, I have called for subsidies for the expenses for special events at European level to go up from "not exceeding 80%" to "not exceeding 90%". We must also have a proper evaluation of the year in clear and simple language, and in accessible formats. I made my report available in all accessible formats at my own expense. But I would like the Commission, in future, to make available on request any report at whatever stage in accessible format. Finally, the year must be the step in the right direction to combat discrimination. But more importantly, it has to be a celebration of disabled people's contribution to society. – I am going to deal specifically with whole-body vibration. As has already been said, there is evidence that whitefinger can be caused by hand-arm vibration, but I do not believe that there is sufficient evidence that whole body vibration causes tremendous health risks for workers. There is a slight health risk, but even the ISO standards say that there is no quantitative health risk, and so without further scientific evidence, I think it would be crazy for us to put more burdens on industry. I am glad that the rapporteur has eventually agreed that we need a compromise on agriculture, so I urge you all to vote for Amendment No 11. This would exclude agriculture and forestry for five years and then it would come back to Parliament after further research and scientific evidence has been provided. If we do not vote for the compromise in Amendment No 11, I believe that the harvest across the whole of the EU will not be able to take place. If we do not vote for it, tractor drivers, for instance, will be able to drive their tractor for between 2 to 4 hours in any 8 hour period and that is if we get the 0.8 m/s2 that the rapporteur is suggesting. Even if agriculture and forestry is taken back, we need to go back to the common position of 1.15 m/s2 instead of the 0.8 that the rapporteur is proposing, because if we do not go back to that, other parts of the industry such as engineering, mining, construction will have tremendous problems, so I urge you to make sure that you do not vote to put more restrictions on industry when we do not have a quantitative health risk demonstrated. I hereby beg you not to vote for the rapporteur's position on this and to go back to the common position and vote for Amendment No 11 and against Amendments Nos 2, 4, 12 and 9. – This is what I call harassment in the workplace. I cannot speak without people smoking behind me and that gives me an asthma attack and that is harassment. I congratulate Mr Andersson on his report. It is important for action at both national and European level because, as we have heard, 12 million people are harassed or bullied in the workplace every year. There are many forms of harassment and as I said, smoking in the workplace in no-smoking areas is a form of harassment. It can also have devastating effects, both physically and pyschologically. The level of stress caused by bullying and harassment in a workplace is tremendous. Disabled people, women and in particular, ethnic minorities, suffer a great deal. They can be doubly discriminated against and are harassed simply because they come from those disadvantaged, discriminated groups. I am also glad that Mr Andersson referred to those on short-term contracts because again we have evidence that those too, are bullied. But can I turn quickly to the reason for the split votes that the ELDR has asked for on paragraphs 8 and 13. I believe that it is a role of the European Union to have common guidelines, best practice and benchmarking across the Member States, but I do not believe that we need more binding legislation: that is a role for the Member States and a question of subsidiarity. So although I agree with much of Mr Andersson's report, I disagree with the fact that we should have binding legislation and that is why we have called for the split vote. – Throughout the EU we have a problem with young people drinking too much. We are not talking about adult drinking here, let us stress that. Some of my colleagues have raised the issue of subsidiarity. We are not dealing with a regulation or a directive here. We are simply talking about a recommendation. To try to deal with young people binge drinking and drinking to excess. It is a way for other countries to learn from each other. It is important, for instance, that school nurses and doctors are trained to spot the problems of excessive drinking by young people. We must realise that peer pressure is a problem, lack of self-esteem, parents drinking: those are all problems we should take into account. We should also make sure that we consult the NGOs, which have a great deal of experience in this field already, and make sure that producers and retailers are held responsible for their actions. I personally would like to see alcohol advertising banned at young people's sporting events, not at adult events but at young people's sporting events, and I believe very strongly that we should support this recommendation. The WHO is supporting measures in this field, the NSPCC is and I certainly hope my colleagues will vote for it. – Mr President, I am going to raise a few points, but my main point is on smoking, again. I have raised it several times with the President before and also with the Quaestors. I have been asked to write in but I thought it would be worth raising it here as well. As an asthmatic who has grave problems when I come into contact with a cigarette at all, I am finding it extremely difficult to move around this building. It has got a little better since the last time we were here. At least in the corridors people are not smoking. But I cannot get in and out of the hemicycle without encountering cigarettes. So I cannot do my work properly. I have to cover my face with paper towels and run through to my office. I had serious asthma attacks here. I cannot carry on with the smoking in this building. I should be grateful if you could actually do something about it so that at least outside the hemicycle I and other people like me do not have to encounter smoke. In the restaurants there is supposed to be a no-smoking area. It is not observed and also the no-smoking area is through the smoking area in all the restaurants. So if I want to get food I have to queue up in the smoking area or someone has to bring it to my office for me. I would also like to see exit signs in case of emergency. When the bell went off yesterday several of us did not even know where the stairs were. – Madam President, Truro is in Cornwall, not in Devon. Can you give assurances that France is not just playing for time? With the Scientific Committee having ruled on Friday that British beef is safe, it seems incredible that we have this further delay. I believe it is probably just a face-saving exercise on behalf of France. I am sorry that the Agriculture Minister, Mr Brown, seemed to cave in. Whatever the reasons for it, it does not help consumer confidence. We need to make sure the ban is lifted as soon as possible. Can the Commissioner give assurances that it will be lifted in the foreseeable future? Last Friday he mentioned a two week time span. Can he tell us now what he feels the time span should be for the lifting of the ban by France? Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report. Our health is, quite rightly, the responsibility of the Member States and I would not like to see a change in that practice. I would like to see more exchange of best practice at European level. I am delighted that all but one of my amendments were accepted in committee, but I would like to point out that the text in recital K is not quite correct. My amendment talked about long-term care, not long-term intensive care. I have taken it up with the services and they said that the mistake could be rectified at plenary. I hope that is going to be the case, because long-term care is not the same as long-term intensive care. I still think there is a problem in the last sentence, but I am sure the services can also rectify that. I was particularly pleased also that my amendment regarding the use of cage beds in psychiatric institutions and social care homes was passed, and that it was recognised that this was in contravention of all international standards regarding the care of people with mental health problems and/or intellectual disabilities. Let us hope now that this practice can be discontinued completely, across the EU and in the accession countries. There has been improvement since the Mental Disability Advocacy Centre report on this subject last year. Another of my amendments that was accepted – which I was pleased about –concerned the need to undertake more research projects at European level on various conditions that affect European citizens and, perhaps more importantly, for any information to be disseminated across the European Union. I hope the Commission might now look at the possibility of helping in that exchange of information, especially if the research has been funded by the EU, in fields such as age-related macular degeneration, for instance, which is the main cause of loss of sight in the elderly in the EU. There is much good work taking place, but no clear system set up to exchange research information. I have talked to the Commission already about the possibility of publishing results on the Internet, but I am sure the Commission could come up with some other ideas. I have only touched on a couple of issues of concern to me because of time constraints; Mrs Jöns' report has gone into many other areas. On behalf of the ELDR Group, I congratulate her on her work and commend the report to the House. – Mr President, I proposed two amendments to this report. One – Amendment No 20 – unfortunately failed to get through. I am pleased that Amendment No 21 did. The first amendment was to make sure that national information centres or relevant authorities or police forces, if offered information, would agree to their use in legal proceedings in the Member State where the football fan was arrested. I tabled this because Mark Forrester, my constituent, was convicted in Belgium after the Euro 2000 match, even though the British Intelligence Service offered video evidence to the Belgian authorities showing him walking away from the problems and the violence. That is why I tabled this amendment and indeed voted for it. Unfortunately the Belgian authorities refused to use that. I was hoping that this report would lay down a marker to say that the authorities ought to be able to use information given by national information centres to other Member States. That would allow us to clamp down on real football hooligans; football fans who are innocent would not be caught in a trap. Mr President, I am pleased that the Commission has produced the action plan on lifelong learning, new technologies, access to the built environment and so on, but we need to go much further. As rapporteur for the European Year of People with Disabilities, all of us set out with very high hopes for this year. We wanted to see positive outcomes and indeed that is what I wrote in my report. We need to mainstream disabled peoples' rights, get away from the medical model of disability once and for all and move to the social or rights-based model of disability. We also need to highlight the achievements of disabled people. Some of those things have been done, but I did not want this just to be a pat on the back for the Member States for having held conferences in major cities, or for them to say simply 'how wonderful we are to have had a European Year of People with Disabilities'. We must make sure that disabled people really are at the top of the political agenda and that means that the employment directive must be fully implemented. I would like to know which countries have not implemented the employment directive, which countries have not put into place anything to start to implement that directive and what sanctions the Commission is going to take against those countries to make sure they implement it. Furthermore, we need, as Mr Mantovani and Mrs Gillig said, a specific disability directive. If we do not get that specific directive, I, along with a lot of disabled peoples' organisations, feel that the European Year of People with Disabilities will have been a failure. I am sorry to have to say that because we have made some progress, but without the commitment to a disability directive we have not gone far enough. – Madam President, since you have announced that the votes will start at 11.30 a.m. on Thursday, could you tell me what will happen to my report on the European Year of People with Disabilities? It would be very wrong if a report dealing with disabled people's rights were put back to Thursday afternoon when most of the Members are not here and most of the Members will not be here to vote. We are very remiss about disabled people's rights in this Parliament in terms of access. It would demonstrate a great lack of awareness of the problems that disabled people face if we do not give them some degree of respect by scheduling this debate at a time when Members will be present to debate and vote on this important issue. – Mr President, we must make it very clear that this is not about the EU raising taxes or imposing a new tax over and above the existing national taxes. It is an attempt to find a common set of criteria, of cost components for the transport infrastructure, and minimising substantial discrepancies across the EU. However, it is up to the Member States to set and levy charges, albeit in a common framework. At present, revenue is not earmarked for transport infrastructure. Quite often, I know in the UK, it is used for bolstering government coffers. I am sure it is the same in other EU Member States. Transport costs should be paid by the user, but governments should not charge rural users if there is no public transport, and this report makes that very clear. This report is about a level playing field: not to charge more but to charge more efficiently. Hauliers in the UK complain that they are at a competitive disadvantage, and that is true. Non-UK truck drivers do not pay UK road tax. Other EU countries' average is ten times lower HTV taxes. The same applies to diesel fuel: it is three times more expensive in the UK. That leads to distortion of competition across the EU. Instead of the UK Eurosceptics criticising this report, they should welcome it because it will do a lot to help our hard-pressed hauliers. – Madam President, can you tell me why this Parliament does not adhere to the health and safety legislation that it actually passes? Why has no air quality test been done on this particular building since we were elected? Why has there been no Health and Safety Committee meeting since 1998? Why has there been no fire drill, either in the Brussels Parliament buildings or the Strasbourg Parliament buildings? Why are there no fire instructions? Why have the staircases not been improved since my accident? Why are no-smoking areas not enforced? It seems absolutely disgraceful that we pass legislation and do not adhere to it ourselves. – Mr President, on a point of order. I welcome the fact that there is now going to be a smoking rather than a non-smoking zone. I hope now that all Members and all members of staff observe the no-smoking areas across the whole of the European Parliament building. I am still having problems being able to get into the part-session and being able to get in and out of committee meetings, both here and in Brussels. So I plead with everybody, now there is a smoking area, to use it and not the no-smoking areas, including the corridors and going up to the lift. – Mr President, I should like to give an explanation of vote on the BSE feed resolution. I voted against whole herd slaughter because I do not believe it is the best way to eradicate BSE. I have heard that there are some farmers who, rather than report they have an animal with BSE, shoot that animal and bury it. I know that in France they have had whole herd slaughter and this does not seem to be the best way forward. Even the Scientific Steering Committee says it is not necessarily the most effective, and feed cohort slaughter – which we have in Britain – is effective. I also voted against Amendment No 7 because I do not believe it is possible, but I did vote for the resolution as a whole, especially the ban on the mammalian meat-and-bone meal feed for all farm animals, as we have had in the UK since 1996. I voted for the resolution because we have to have strong rules applicable across the EU. – I put this resolution forward on behalf of the ELDR Group because I believe the EU arms embargo should not be lifted on 17 January. What we should have instead is an extension of that arms embargo. It would be definitely unacceptable to lift it. The army have failed miserably to disarm and disband the militia. They have been terrorising between a hundred and two hundred thousand refugees in West Timor. They are not allowing aid workers into the camps. In one camp 160 have died. 90% of those were children under five. As has already been said, they are not cooperating with the UN International Commission for Crimes Against Humanity and they are also committing crimes and atrocities in Aceh and West Papua. One case I heard of recently was that the police and the army together beat up a young man. He was going to look for his mother. They beat him up and interrogated him and kicked him to the ground. After that they poured gasoline over him and burnt him alive. That was in North Aceh. It is still happening. The Indonesian Army and the militia and the police are still committing these atrocities. To raise the embargo would give totally wrong signals. I heard also recently about a secret defence intelligence report from Australia. Some of the EU countries did not want to agree to the ban in the first place. Some EU Member States put financial gain above human rights and I do not believe that that is acceptable. While the Indonesian army is still engaged in acts of repression, the embargo must stay. – I wish to ask your advice on raising this particular issue with the Petitions Committee: I wonder whether that would be in order. It is about my constituent, Mark Forrester, who was arrested on alleged football hooliganism during the EURO 2000 championships. He was subjected, and I say subjected with good reason, to the fast-track trial procedure last year, and was convicted: it was then deemed to be unfair and he went for retrial last month. The conviction was upheld last week. I believe this fast track trial and the conviction being upheld is contrary to Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. It is contrary to Articles 47 and 48, of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which you, Madam President, signed. Every EU citizen has the right to a fair trial and should be deemed innocent until proven guilty. The video evidence that we saw in Court showed that my constituent, Mark Forrester, was not involved in any way, shape or form with any violence. A further video was offered to the Belgian authorities by the UK police. The Belgian police refused to take that further evidence. I believe the decision by the Court was more about propping up the fast-track trial procedure than about justice. Mark Forrester is innocent and we will carry on that fight to prove that he is innocent and to clear his name. I hope, Madam President, you will help us in that endeavour. – Madam President, at the last part-session in Brussels you very kindly said that you would write to the Greek authorities about the 12 British and two Dutch plane spotters who were arrested. I was wondering whether you have had any reply to that letter. My constituent Wayne Groves is still in prison after nearly five weeks with no charge and no trial. I believe it is against the European Convention on Human Rights. I should like to know whether there is anything further you can do on their behalf and whether you have had that reply. – Mr President, I do not believe the Commission has done enough to address the problems in different Member States. It is not just a problem for the UK, it is a problem for Denmark, Sweden, the Netherlands and various other Member States. What we have to do is carry out a proper comprehensive impact assessment. We wish to return the directive to the Commission for them to do that assessment. I am in favour of temporary workers receiving protection but believe that it is probably best left to Member States, rather than having the 'fit-all' directive which we have in front of us today. The proposal in its current form will reduce flexibility, reduce opportunities for temporary workers and lead to more bureaucracy. We have, however, suggested various amendments in case the proposal is not rejected outright. To make it more workable for Member States we would firstly like to exclude pay and other financial benefits from the directive's scope altogether. I do not believe it should be an EU competence in any case. The second major amendment is to give an exemption for 12 months for temporary workers placed in user companies. That is only for pay and financial benefits, not for health and safety. Most temporary workers in the UK and some other Member States are covered on health and safety grounds. Another key amendment is to make sure the user company or the agency can be comparative, to give Member States that choice. Another area of concern is the temporary-to-permanent contract fee. Agencies should get some sort of recompense if the temporary worker is taken on by the user company. In my view, these amendments will make the directive far more workable and more acceptable to temporary workers, agencies and user companies. . – I abstained on the final vote because although I agree with the principle behind this regulation, I cannot agree to the inclusion of Annex 1. This regulation speaks about International Terrorism generally and does not specifically refer to the events of September 11. Therefore it seems totally wrong for this Annex to be included which only refers to individuals and organisations who appear to be solely from the Islamic Community. I am also concerned that the evidence against the people and organisations listed in the Annex has not been seen by European Parliamentarians and therefore we have not been able to decide for ourselves whether those listed are guilty of terrorism or not. Mr President, I am very pleased that we are moving forward in terms of better lawmaking. As a pro-European I find it extremely frustrating that we bring forward legislation in this place that is not properly thought through and that not only damages this Parliament: it also damages our credibility. We also need to look at current legislation to see whether it is being implemented across each Member State. If it is not being implemented, is this because it is unworkable? If it is unworkable, why do we not just repeal that legislation, instead of simply bringing forward further legislation in the same field, as we appear to do at the moment. We also have to look at whether it is really necessary at European level in all cases. If it is necessary then we have to go for comprehensive impact assessment, based on up-to-date scientific and medical evidence in some areas where it is applicable, such as health and safety legislation in the employment and social affairs field. We must also take into account the situation in each Member State. The accuracy of impact assessments really must be improved – I must say that I do not believe that they are very good at the moment. They must also be available at a very early stage so that we can have genuine consultation. That consultation should include the actual instrument which is most appropriate for that specific subject area. All the outcomes and all the contributions should be put into the public domain. I am very pleased that Mr Medina Ortega has agreed to refer back his motion. It is right that he should do that. I congratulate him on all the work that he has done but his motion has, of course, been superseded by the interinstitutional agreement. Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Cashman for an excellent report and for taking on board a lot of the points that were raised in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. I found it very useful working so closely together on Article 13 across the board under the Hughes' procedure. The Action Programme must enable groups that are discriminated against to take action themselves. It must ensure equal access to the programme for disabled people and it must make sure that funding does not fall below the preparatory actions. We must also prepare further for anti-discrimination legislation on all grounds in the future, including a disability directive. It has been brought home very strongly to me how we much need one in the light of the Article 13 hearings. Jenny was from the Access Charter, she was the coordinator for the group and I invited her to the hearings on Article 13. To start, with she could not get into Parliament except through the swing doors. Next we booked a disabled access hotel only to find that a single bed was put across the bathroom. She tried to get a taxi in Brussels and was refused. She tried to get into a restaurant to have a meal and was refused entry on the grounds that her physical appearance would put other diners off. The final indignity was that when she went to Brussels airport she was subjected to a full body search and then, when she remonstrated, was told: "Have a nice trip, I hope your plane crashes." That is why we need anti-discrimination legislation. Briefly, on the employment directive, I would like to congratulate Thomas Mann for an excellent report. Again this was a close working relationship. This is ground-breaking legislation and it is a gigantic step forward but we must go even further. I also urge you to vote for the amendment by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on age. Discrimination on any grounds is wrong, equally wrong. We must vote for both these pieces of legislation tomorrow and at long last demonstrate our commitment to stamping out discrimination in all its forms. – Madam President, this is not only a crisis for British farmers, it is a crisis for French farmers as well. But above all it is a crisis for the European Union. France has to decide whether it is in the EU or not. If it is in the EU it must play by the rules. In the UK our support in the European elections was very shaky. There was a very low turnout, as was the case in a lot of Member States. I believe that if we had an election today that turnout would be even lower because of France's refusal to lift the ban and the fact that the European Union is brought into disrepute. The results of the Scientific Steering Committee back on 1 August ruled that British beef was as safe as any other beef and that was led by a French chairman. I happen to believe that it is safer than other beef because we have got some of the highest hygiene standards in the world now. The Food Standards Agency in France did not come up with any new evidence at all. I believe it was purely a political decision by France but we must now move forward. I would like to see a fast-track legal procedure. I would like to see, if possible, an injunction taken out against France before the legal process has run its course. I would like to see interim compensation and I would like to see when a fine is imposed, that high compensation is given to British farmers. British farmers are fed up. The British public are fed up with France refusing to lift the ban and I am sure the Commission is fed up as well. It is about time that France obeyed the rules. . The Liberal Democrat delegation did not vote with the rest of the ELDR Group on the Schmidt report. We voted against Amendments Nos 1 to 13 and the proposal, as we wished the proposal in its current form to be withdrawn. Our reason for doing so is that we believe VAT on postal services, especially in respect of securing a universal service for packages below two kilogrammes, is a matter best left to national governments under the principle of subsidiarity. However, we remain open to considering future proposals aimed at ensuring greater competition. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mrs Hermange on an excellent report. I would also like to congratulate her for making it available in braille and through sign language interpreters. This is such a good report because of the cross-party cooperation, similar to the cross-party cooperation there was on the article concerning anti-discrimination, and because of the input from the disabled people's organisations themselves. We had 97 amendments in committee, and we have only five for this plenary session. That demonstrates how we have all worked together and particularly that Mrs Hermange has listened to the points that have been put to her and incorporated them into this report. I hope also that this report will act as a springboard for the year 2003, the Year of Disabled Citizens, but hopefully we can bring forward the disability directive that Mr Howitt has just referred to within that year, so as to actually make a commitment to a positive disability directive. This report is about breaking down barriers for disabled people, to get rid of the prejudices that disabled people face in their daily lives across the European Union. That is what we are aiming to achieve. It is disgraceful that we need this report, that disabled people are not treated like other people. We must make sure that disabled people are mainstreamed, that they are not sidelined, that they are taken into account in all sectors – in the information society, in public procurement, in employment. As Mr Mantovani said, the level of unemployment is three times higher for disabled people. Let us hope that this report, together with the employment directive, will address that issue. We must look at all the issues. I would like to conclude by saying again to Mrs Hermange that she has produced an excellent report but one that we must make sure that we put into practice. Fine words are one thing, making sure that in practice disabled people are treated exactly the same as everyone else is another. – Madam President, under Rule 111 of the European Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, I propose an amendment to the agenda of this part-session to include a statement by the Commission about the French Government’s refusal to lift the beef ban and its decision to stop UK beef crossing its territory, which is a vital route into Spain and Italy. I should be grateful if the statement could be followed by a short debate as provided for under Rule 37. The Commission agreed that British beef is safe. Scientific evidence proves that British beef is safe. The French Government, as far as I know, has no new evidence. Stringent safeguards are in place in the UK, yet one state – France – is going to opt out of the Commission ruling. It will damage the internal market if this state of affairs is allowed to continue; it will damage the credibility of the Commission and it will further damage British farmers. BSE has already cost the UK GBP 1.5 billion in lost exports. British farmers have been patient for the last two-and-a-half or three years during the negotiations. They have abided by the rules. They have even destroyed animals with no sign of BSE. At long last the beef ban was lifted. Now they are confronted with a new attack on their industry. We need an urgent statement and debate. I hope time can be made for this. Mr President, as has already been stated, there are 400 000 multiple sclerosis sufferers across the whole of the European Union, but it has taken only one today to get this debate, a remarkable young women who has already been mentioned, Louise McVay, who is in the gallery at the moment. It demonstrates what tenacity can achieve. I am also pleased that it is on the agenda during the European Year of People with Disabilities. I join others in congratulating the rapporteur for such a wide-ranging report. It talks about equal access to health care. There are differences within Member States and across the whole of the European Union. Some drugs like beta interferon, which can help some MS sufferers, are not widely available. Multiple sclerosis research should also be covered in the seventh framework directive. I am very disappointed – a lot of people are – that the sixth framework directive is not living up to the commitment that was made to mainstream disability issues. We must also ensure that young disabled people – that includes people with MS – do not end up being cared for alongside elderly people. That is why we must work towards independent living and why it is so important that the employment directive is fully implemented in all Member States. I am sorry to say that the deadline of 3 December this year has been missed by many Member States. We must take this opportunity now to ensure that does not continue, and we must get a specific disability directive. I was very pleased that the Commissioner mentioned that in her speech in Rome closing the European Year. Let us hope that we now get that timetable. Mr President, on a point of order, there was no announcement just now, but as the written declaration on the rights of deaf-blind people has reached the required number of signatures, namely, 320, I would just like to thank everyone here for signing that resolution, of which I was co-author. It is great news for deaf-blind people. We are not asking for more rights for deaf-blind people in the European Union, but for the same rights as other European citizens have. – I welcome the fact that the Zabell report tries to address the problem of intentional doping and proceeds from the presumption of innocence based on the charter of human rights. Unfortunately, UK athletes – Linford Christie, Dougie Walker and Gary Cadogan – were not presumed to be innocent by the International Athletics Association. Despite evidence, based on research by Aberdeen University, that nandrolene could be produced by a combination of dietary supplements and vigorous training, Mark Richardson is still waiting, eight days before the Olympics, in the Olympic village not knowing whether he is going to compete or not. Linford Christie has campaigned throughout his career against doping in sport. He would not do anything now to jeopardise that. These cases demonstrate the need for the World Anti-Doping Agency to harmonise disciplinary procedure that would safeguard the rights of athletes but, at the same time, swiftly punish those who knowingly take drugs and are guilty of taking drugs. – Madam President, I should just like to say before I start that it is a bit rich of Mr Donnelly to say that people should not have a trade war. Mr Brown, the British Minister for Agriculture, said himself that he would not be buying French food. I am very disappointed that there is no solution today. I hope there will be a solution quickly. It is not doing any good to any of our farmers, whether they be French or British. British beef is safe. Hygiene standards prove that British beef is safe; the scientific evidence has proved that British beef is safe. Other countries lifted the ban on 1 August. There have been no cases of BSE in the relevant age group – 6 months to 30 months old – since 1996. No cases at all. So why have the French not lifted the ban? I suspect it is because they have picked up our trade. Nearly 40% of our trade with the EU was to France. No objection was raised by the French back in May when the International Veterinary Organisation adopted less rigorous conditions than those foreseen by the date-base export scheme. But all this argument illustrates the need for an independent food standard agency at EU level. It would prevent the undue influence of national bodies who quite often have a political axe to grind. It could look at EU practices across the whole of the European Union. It could point out the hypocrisy of France continuing the ban. I have heard of some of the practices in France at the moment. I do not know how true they are, but I have heard of: French beef being sold in markets with the spinal tissue and brain still attached – the food agency could look at that; carcasses not inspected in France by qualified vets, unlike in the UK; pigs still fed bone marrow – the food agency could look at those cases; lower standards of farm hygiene in France; French supermarkets do not insist on seeing pesticide records. The list is endless, not to mention the sewage sludge. That has disgusted everyone. But I am not as worried about that as I am, perhaps, about the reports that offal and bonemeal are still being fed to French animals. Before any food safety agency is set up, the Commission must examine all these cases in France as well. Stringent action must be taken against them if the Commission finds, through scientific evidence, that France is breaking any of the rules and that the food is not fit for human consumption, in the same way as it did on BSE. I do not think the French were wrong to criticise Britain over some of the practices over BSE in the past. I felt the Conservative Government should have acted sooner. I felt they should have put more money into research sooner. But now we are BSE-free in the 6 months to 30 months-old exports. It is important to remember that. But we must make sure that when the evidence comes forward tomorrow and when we hear the result, if there is no new scientific evidence – and I doubt there will be – that action is taken against France immediately if it does not lift the ban. I hope France will see sense. I hope it will see sense for the sake of our farmers, for the sake of the French farmers, for the sake of the European Union and for the sake of the Commission. The Commission has to be seen to be acting firmly. If it fudges the issue, if it comes up with a compromise not based on scientific evidence, then the Commission will be brought into disrepute and consequently the whole of the European Union will be brought into disrepute. – Mr President, I believe that these Commission proposals will mean that a number of African, Caribbean and Pacific countries will go out of business. That will lead to poverty and even more deprivation. Yes, we have to simplify the system. It is far too complicated at the moment. But I believe those countries need time to diversify properly and that is why I would agree with a ten-year transitional period. Chiquita, Dole and Del Monte, who produce in Latin American countries, have not seen their production levels go down since 1993. Their access to the market has not gone down since 1993. All they want to do is get more access to the market at the expense of the ACP countries. Yes, we have to find a solution. Producers in the UK are being held to ransom by the USA. We must not let ACP countries go to the wall just to save companies in the EU. This is not just about bananas; it is about trade with developing countries overall. – This is the first directive that we are debating under Article 13 and it is a very good start in our fight against all discrimination across the EU. MEPs and NGOs worked very hard to get Article 13 into the Treaty. I look forward to seeing further directives, perhaps starting with disability. Initially, I was against racism being taken separately. I would have liked to see it taken with the directive on employment and with the Action Programme. I was persuaded of the urgency, because of the current rise of racism across the EU. A number of Members have cited individual cases today. I hope the Portuguese Presidency can work very hard to push this through and make sure that we do get this racism legislation. We have to send the message that we are opposed to racism and xenophobia across the EU. I am glad for that reason that we are having the vote today. May I turn specifically to some of the amendments. I am very well aware that some European jargon excludes people. This is the reason I wanted Amendment No 48 on simple language to go in. Amendment No 43: people have talked already about the burden of proof. This is working towards a shared burden of proof. The plaintiff does have to provide facts and it has already been said that equal opportunities for men and women cover this in European legislation as well. Amendment No 51: I am delighted that charities and non-governmental organisations are going to be consulted. They are at the sharp end; they know what they are talking about. Finally, I would like to add my congratulations to Mrs Buitenweg and to Mr Howitt in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for working so closely together to put forward an excellent report. – Mr President, on a point of order. In light of the amendment tabled by Mr Davies and myself at the end of last year to the common foreign and security policy report and adopted by Parliament, calling on the EU to act as an honest broker between India and Pakistan over the dispute in Kashmir, could we have a Council declaration or an oral question on this matter at the next part-session? This dispute dates back more than 50 years; UN resolutions have not been acted upon and, as both countries are now nuclear powers, it is very important that we resolve this dispute. I ask the EU to be proactive and to offer its services as a mediator, as no other body seems to be doing so. – Madam President, let me say from the outset that I condemn terrorism wherever it takes place. But I condemn in particular the attacks on the Indian Parliament and the US cultural centre. There is no justification for terrorism, whatever the perceived provocation. But we have to look at the root causes of terrorism. That is why I am delighted that we have widened this resolution, even though we were unable to change the title; I would not like us to think that we are linking any country or organisation with these attacks. We still have no real knowledge of who perpetrated them so I am very pleased that the Indian government is investigating it and that Pakistan is helping with that investigation. It gives me the opportunity to address the wider problem: the threat of war again between India and Pakistan. I welcome President Musharraf's announcement that he is clamping down on terrorism, but it is also important to look at the dispute over Jammu and Kashmir, which has been going on for over 50 years. I repeat the call for the EU to offer its services as a facilitator to both sides and to take account of the relevant UN resolutions. What I am proposing is something similar to what Senator Mitchell did in Northern Ireland. The people who continue to suffer are the ordinary people and civilians of India, Pakistan and Kashmir. People who say a facilitator provided by the EU, the Commonwealth or the UN is no way forward are not offering any alternative. We have to find an alternative to the bloodshed and to the continuation of this dispute. I hope we will vote for the resolution, to demonstrate not only our horror of terrorism but also the desire to find a solution to the tension within this region. – Mr President, I welcome this report but I feel it is a little up-beat. The situation has improved and we must encourage President Wahid, but there are still horrendous problems. The government is weak and constantly under attack, the military resists civilian control, the economy is fragile and, above all else, human rights are poor. That is why we must link development aid to progress in human rights abuses. We must make sure, also, that the murderers of the  journalist, Sander Thoenes, are brought to justice; and the murderers of the three humanitarian aid workers and one torture victim killed only last week by Indonesian security forces in Aceh are brought to justice, also the perpetrators of past crimes. That should include a new trial for President Suharto. I am pleased that the UN issued indictments today because of crimes against humanity in East Timor, and Indonesia should be aware, with or without cooperation, that those trials will go ahead. – Mr President, I was very angry when I heard that the Council of Ministers was not going to extend the arms embargo on Monday. I understand that France, Italy, Spain and Belgium wished it to be lifted and Britain, as usual, sat on the fence. So much for an ethical foreign policy. But I urge the EU Council of Ministers to reconsider. Meantime, there should be no resumption of the arms trade by Member States. This gives the wrong signals at the wrong time. Even the Indonesian Cabinet Minister said it was the wrong decision. Democracy is fragile. There is a threat of an army coup, violence in the Moluccas is getting worse and now we hear in Lombok that twelve churches were burnt and  5 000 people have fled, and there are reports again that the army was involved. I plead with the Council of Ministers to reinstate the arms embargo for the sake of the stability of Indonesia. – Madam President, I should like to make it clear that I am not speaking on behalf of the ELDR or in favour of this resolution. Although I understand some of the concerns of the people who wrote this resolution, especially in the run-up to the election in Pakistan, particularly that anyone standing for election should have to have a university degree, I do not agree with them. I agree that President Musharraf took over in a coup. But let me make it clear for the record that this was a bloodless coup; political parties were not banned and no restrictions were placed on the media. Yes, the legal framework order was reintroduced by the president, giving him powers to dismiss the parliament. But my understanding is that such powers exist in some EU countries. The French president, for instance, can dissolve parliament. I think we are looking at it too much from a European perspective. There have been allegations of corruption for centuries in Pakistan. These elections are a step in the right direction. The fact that many who oppose President Musharraf were elected surely speaks for itself. All parties in Pakistan welcomed these elections. They have just elected a Speaker. They are about to elect a prime minister. President Musharraf actually met his commitment – as the Council said – to hold these elections. Let us now look forward instead of looking back. – Mr President, the Indonesian Government must formally put on record its opposition to human rights violations such as unlawful killings, including extra-judicial executions, disappearances and torture. It must make clear to the security forces that any violations will not be tolerated and that perpetrators will be brought to justice. Both sides have to adhere to international human rights and humanitarian law –  and be seen to adhere to them. There must also be a proper chain of command for security personnel. They must be made aware that they will be held criminally accountable for carrying out atrocities – not only the people who carry them out, but also those who give the orders. Crimes against women and children should not be tolerated under any circumstances. Unfortunately these continue at present. The Indonesian Government must take measures to protect the human rights defenders and members of the press who speak out about these atrocities. – Mr President, if the rapporteur's original draft report had gone through and had been accepted, it would have decimated industry across the EU. Yes, by all means protect workers, but do not throw workers out of work! It was essential that hearing protection should be taken into account, and I congratulate those industries and everybody else who convinced the rapporteur of the need to do so. If this had not been the case, with the exposure limit set at 87, hammering steel at 95-100 decibels, bottling at 98 decibels, and pig-feeding at 100 decibels would have ceased to exist, as would the construction and mining industries. Cement works and part of the engineering industry would have been decimated. I recognise that the rapporteur has moved and I welcome that. I welcome the fact that she has moved from daily measuring to weekly measuring in exceptional circumstances, but I would like her to move further to weekly measurements, to go back to the main body of the text as in the common position. I am very pleased that we have got the compromise amendment on music and leisure, whatever the rapporteur says: to have five years' exemption for the music and leisure industry, for the Commission to do a report, and then to come back to this House, but to consult with both sides of industry. I hope it goes through and I hope all MEPs will vote for it. Otherwise, we will have the ridiculous prospect of bar staff wearing ear-muffs when people go in to order a pint of beer. I am also glad that we have a chance to debate this because if it had been rejected on a second reading in committee, we would have had no chance to debate this today in the plenary session – no chance to put forward the amendment to exclude music and leisure for five years, and Parliament's view would not have been taken into account. So I say to those people who voted against the report in committee: if you had got your way, there is no way we would be standing here today. – Mr President, can I just object to the fact that the Thorning-Schmidt report and the Ghilardotti report are going to be voted on immediately after the debate? Some Groups have not had a chance to look at the Ghilardotti report in particular and to debate them. Can we at least, if this happens in the future, have far more warning? We only heard last night that this was about to happen when it was too late for us to do anything about it. – I am sorry to have to make a point of order again about smoking in the workplace. As I was about to make a speech on harassment at work during last night's plenary session, the people in the booth behind me were smoking with the door open. I had an asthma attack just before I was due to speak. That is a case of harassment at the workplace. – I would like to support, in particular, Amendments Nos 13 and 16, 19 and 20. I tabled similar amendments in the Culture Committee. These were amendments to help to ensure that disabled users benefit equally from electronic communications. Service providers must recognise their role in facilitating access to terminal equipment for disabled users and the framework directive must include, in my opinion, access to terminal equipment and software. Article 7(4)(e) says that they are keen to address the needs of specific social groups, in particular disabled people. That is meaningless without these amendments. We do not want to regulate all equipment sold on the high street but the interfaces should be regulated for vision-impaired people, for instance. The menu on television or mobile phones should have an audio alternative. It is a small change. It is not much to ask but it would affect the lives of disabled people and mean that they could be included in the electronics communications revolution instead of being excluded. – Madam President, it is all very well Mr Poos saying that the Quaestors asked for the air quality check. I understand that the staff asked for an air quality check before this building was opened. I asked for an air quality check in January. Why has it taken so long to get that air quality check? Usually, in a lot of countries, if legionella bacteria is found in any part of a building, that building is closed. – Following on from the points of order made earlier today, I am grateful the President is going to raise the issue yet again with the Greek authorities. I am speaking particularly about my constituent Wayne Groves from Tamworth. He did not even possess a camera so I still do not know why he is being held in detention. He is sleeping on a floor with a thin mattress, as I understand are the other prisoners. He has been there for three weeks. Why, when the magistrate said yesterday that there was no real evidence against them, are they still being held? I believe along with everybody else that this is in contravention of the European Convention on Human Rights. If applicant countries have to say that will adhere to it before membership, surely current members should adhere to it now. – Mr President, although I welcome some of the points in Mr Hughes' report, especially the simplification of existing Community legislation and better monitoring, I am very unhappy that my amendments on comprehensive impact assessments did not pass in committee. My group agreed that I should table the amendments again in plenary but, unfortunately, no other group was prepared to open up the process. Legislation should only be brought forward when we demonstrate that there is a clear need for it, rather than best practice or the exchange of best practice. We must first make sure that existing legislation in the same field is being implemented across the European Union. Secondly, as I have already said regarding comprehensive impact assessments, we must have an impact assessment for each Member State, taking into account the impact on industry, on business and on the workforce. Unfortunately, quite often the impact assessments coming forward from the Commission look more like explanatory statements to me rather than comprehensive impact assessments. Above all, in health and safety we need to have up-to-date scientific and medical evidence to demonstrate the need for such legislation. Take the example of the vibrations directive. I was given a lot of documents by the Commission. The ISO standards report, the only one that was really up to date, actually said that there was no quantitative link between whole body vibration and lower back pain, but still we brought legislation forward. I am pro-European but we bring forward more and more legislation without demonstrating the actual need for it. This brings the European Union into disrepute. Although we may need some of the legislation Mr Hughes has proposed in his report and which the Commission has proposed, without a guarantee of a proper comprehensive and independent impact assessment, the ELDR Group will have to abstain on the vote tomorrow. – I also welcome the White Paper. But do you envisage that the Food Safety Agency will have enough teeth to prevent something like the beef war that we have had and France's refusal to lift the ban? You mentioned the Commission being able to withhold grants and subsidies from countries who are acting in the way that France is acting. Would you also propose that the Commission could give interim payments for instance, similar to the one that the British farmers are asking for at the moment? – With respect, we are still not very clear whether the Commission intends share fishermen to be included in this article or not. We need clarification in some of the parties. – Madam President, I should like to request that the “no smoking” areas are respected, which was not the case at the last Strasbourg session. As an asthmatic, I had two asthma attacks in this building during the last session. I do not wish to repeat that performance. I am sure there are other people in this building who also have asthma and other lung problems, so I request that all “no smoking” areas are respected. – Madam President, I am afraid I must raise this issue again. In your letter of 14 July it appears to me that this House is putting Members' health below that of the state of the carpets. I was quite shocked to receive the letter to say that ashtrays will be put outside the Chamber, along with no smoking signs, because you have always been helpful in the past on this matter of smoking in this building. It is incredible to me that there are Parliament rules stating that there are no smoking areas yet we do not have a safe passage into this Chamber. I have just been diagnosed with deep vein thrombosis and the medication I am taking makes my asthma worse. I plead for a safe route from my office into this plenary session, not only for me but for other Members here who suffer from other breathing problems. I hope this will be put into place immediately because, otherwise, my health and other people's health will suffer. I hope you will look into it as a matter of urgency and remove all ashtrays from all the no smoking areas as a matter of course. – Mr President, you said the trade unions have been consulted. I would like to know whether all workers have been consulted. After all, we are not going to lose our jobs as MEPs if we do not turn up but some of the workers might. Can I also have assurances that the trade unions have not been pressurised? I know that pressure has been put on them in the past about this building, so I would like to seek those assurances on behalf of the trade unions and the other workers. – Mr President, every year 100 people die in my West Midlands constituency of asbestos-related diseases. Every year 4,500 people die in the UK from these diseases according to the trade unions, and studies predict, as Mrs Thorning-Schmidt said, that in excess of between 250,000 and 500,000 will die cross Western Europe in the next 35 years. The evidence is there. The facts are clear, based on scientific studies. Exposure to asbestos can maim and kill and asbestos workers have to be protected. Manufacturing of asbestos has been banned in almost all Member States, but there are still millions of tonnes of asbestos left in Europe's buildings, industrial plants, railway carriages that were built in the 1950s and the 1960s, etc. I agree with the report that the presence of asbestos has to be presumed in a building if it has not been proved otherwise. Workers will continue to be exposed for many years because of demolition, removal, refurbishment and maintenance still having to take place. That is why I sought further tightening of exposure levels in committee by proposing an amendment, which was accepted by committee, which would effectively halve the exposure allowed. Instead of the eight-hour exposure limit, it was opting for a four-hour exposure limit. It would also reflect the current working patterns within an industry because shifts are a lot less than they are in other sections of the industry. An eight-hour reference period will allow higher levels of exposure over a shorter period like one to two hours, which to my mind is unacceptable. I would like to see this limit for all workers who are exposed to asbestos, with the exception of people working in asbestos cement. I genuinely believe that is a separate case. It is important we do not have different exposure limits, however, depending on the type of work, as Amendment No 21 has, but this will be dealt with in conciliation. I urge you to vote for Amendment No 21 and for the last six words of Amendment No 42. My understanding is that if Amendment No 21 is accepted then we can vote for the last sentence of Amendment No 42 which deals with asbestos cement, but we need clarification on that from the President. I urge you to vote for this excellent report. It is one example of an EU directive where there is compelling scientific and medical evidence that it is needed to save lives across the European Union. – Mr President, I congratulate Mrs Smet on her report. I should like to concentrate on two specific categories: junior doctors and fishermen. Concerning junior doctors, I was delighted that the European Parliament, in committee, has agreed on Amendment No 5 with regard to a transitional period of four years instead of the Council position of nine years, which I believe is too long. Doctors have our lives in their hands. It is important that they are included in the working time directive. I was worried about the weekly working hours and how they should not exceed the 54 hours over a four-month reference period. That is why I would like you, for the same reasons, to support Amendment No 10 tabled in my name. I should like to mention here that on the order paper it looks as if I had taken out some of the recital 11. In fact my amendment is purely and simply an addition, an add-on to recital 11. I am not taking out anything in that. I ask for your support. It is important also with derogations on minimum daily rest periods that we still have adequate rest for doctors. I know doctors in the UK who work 56-hour shifts consecutively; 9 am on Saturday to 5 p.m. on Monday is not uncommon. We are not asking for an 11-hour rest period. We are asking for, say, six hours within a 24-hour period. That is not asking too much. If doctors do not get that their judgment will suffer. We do not allow people to drink and drive because their coordination is gone. I do not believe we should allow junior doctors to be able to practice medicine. I urge you to support Amendment No 10. – Mr President, I welcome the proposals to ban the production of mechanically recovered meat from all ruminant bones of all ages. In the UK at the moment, we have a ban on MRM from beef and also we do not have any animal going to the food chain over 30 months, but the problem is MRM beef coming in from other EU countries. As far as I know, there is no adequate test to make sure that they are BSE-free. So I welcome the ban. With regard to the removal of the vertebral column, you have brought up the question: where should it take place, abattoir or at the point of sale? But is it really necessary? We must take into account the Scientific Steering Committee’s review, but surely if the spinal cord is removed adequately that should be enough. Whatever happens, all these safeguards must be monitored carefully. I am pleased that there is going to be a monthly report from other EU countries as happens in the UK at the moment, but please bring in these measures quickly. Make sure they are properly in force and please learn from the UK’s past mistakes. – Madam President, on a point of order, I should like to ask you to ask the President of Parliament to register our complaint to the French Government, to the Mayor of Strasbourg and indeed to Air France: some of us were unable to get to the start of the plenary session yesterday because Air France cancelled one of the only direct flights from the UK to Strasbourg. That meant a lot of us had to fly via Nantes and did not arrive until 9 p.m. We were the lucky ones. I understand the President of Parliament was also affected. If the French Government insists that we meet here for 12 sessions a year – and I have not been one of those complaining about it – please let us get to the plenary session and indeed get home from the plenary session after the votes at 6.30 on Thursday evening! It is absolutely ridiculous that Members of the European Parliament cannot take part in debates. I was due to speak in one of those debates yesterday, as I know other people were. Would the President please contact the officials and ask them to do something about it? – Madam President, maybe at long last we will decide that the Medical Services should not be placed in the basement. They would prefer to be on the same floor as the plenary session and maybe we could actually look into that. – Mr President, I would prefer that we would have had no directive whatsoever on whole-body vibration, because even the ISO Standard report says there is no quantitative link between whole-body vibration and lower back pain. However, having said that, I am very pleased that we have reached an agreement. It is not ideal, but it is better than it might have been. I would have liked it if we had kept the derogation for agriculture and forestry. That was extremely important, but I am pleased, however, that we have agreed that agricultural machinery will not have to be changed until 2014, that is, if the machinery has already been bought by 2007. I am also pleased that we have moved back to the common position limit value of 1.15 m/s2. It is far better than what the PSE Group rapporteur suggested in the first place, which was 0.7 m/s2. The PPE-DE Group suggested 0.8 m/s2. We have moved back to something that is reasonably sensible. If we had not, tractor and dumper-truck drivers would have had to drive their tractor or their dumper-truck for between two to four hours. There is still going to be a problem with harvest time, but most of industry can cope with this apart from the agriculture sector. Those of us who insisted that the levels suggested in the first edition of the report were unworkable won the day. I would like to congratulate everybody on the hard work they put in. We have achieved a worthwhile compromise. It is not ideal, but I will reluctantly be asking my group, ELDR, to vote for the directive. – Mr President, I tried yesterday to get a Commission statement on the French refusal to lift the beef ban but unfortunately the proposal to change the agenda was rejected. We need urgently to know what steps the Commission is taking against the French. The British farmers are in crisis at the moment. GBP 1.5 billion worth of exports has been lost in the UK because of it. Commission scientists say they are satisfied, so why are the French flouting the rules? They have no new scientific evidence. The BSE crisis happened because the previous government reacted too late to the problem. They closed their eyes to it. Cows should never have been fed the remains of other cows, but it was not just a problem in the UK. Britain is vigilant now. Since 1996 no cases of BSE in the eligible age group – that is 6 months to 30 months – have been discovered. Some other countries cannot say the same. They do not have to adhere to the same rules. It is time we had a level playing field. Hygiene standards in the UK are second to none, and the ban must be lifted across the EU, including France. – Mr President, can I put this debate in context? After the Indonesian invasion in 1976 the UN did not recognise the Indonesian sovereignty over East Timor. Let us get that straight for a start. Only the Australians recognised it and even they, after a while, decided that they were wrong, so legally we did not have to ask permission to send in an international peacekeeping force. However, we did. And now, at long last, they have agreed. But when will it go in? Hopefully, by this weekend. Who will head it? Hopefully it will not be the Indonesians. I heard on the television this morning that one faction within the Indonesian army was actually saying that it wanted to lead the multinational peacekeeping force! Fortunately the foreign minister had other ideas, but obviously there is warfare between them all at the moment. But whoever leads it, it must go in now, immediately, before we see any more atrocities. They are happening on a daily basis. Churches and schools are burnt. People are hacked to death. Yesterday I heard of a nun who was told she was being rescued and she should not look at the church. She tried to see it and saw blood seeping in front of the church door, the blood of women, children and priests. What had they done? Nothing. And that was not an isolated incident. UN workers were attacked when they tried to move food and the army just stood by. If food and shelter cannot get through, there is going to be a humanitarian catastrophe, not just in East Timor, but in West Timor as well. The latest story is that refugees were put on to ships and told they were being rescued. The ships then came back a short time later with nobody on board. That is genocide in anybody’s terms.  And that is why we have to have a war crimes tribunal: to bring these people to justice. What else can be done? A military embargo yes, but it should have been done sooner. The Hawk jets from Britain should have been cancelled sooner. I am glad they have been cancelled now but it is a bit too late. The peace-keeping force must go in now. Humanitarian aid and human rights monitors for West Timor and East Timor must go in now but more importantly the Indonesian Government must be held to account. –I hope you will join with myself and James Elles and the other members of the all-party Kashmir Group in welcoming the renewed dialogue between India and Pakistan over the disputed territory of Kashmir. As everyone in this House knows, relations between India and Pakistan have been very difficult over the last few months, and since both countries are nuclear powers it is very important for this dialogue to be successful. I would reiterate the points made by James Elles as regards the Kashmiri people being involved in this dialogue at the earliest possible convenience and as regards ensuring that the European Union continues to offer its services as an honest broker, as agreed under the common foreign and security policy - if, that is, both India and Pakistan feel it necessary to take advantage of that offer. – Mr President, I wish to thank Mrs Damião for all her work and I hope that she will get well soon. Every year 4 500 people die from asbestos-related diseases in the UK alone. It is predicted that 250 000 will die in the European Union of these diseases in the next 35 years. Medical and scientific evidence demonstrates that there is a real need for this directive. I am delighted that the production and marketing of asbestos will be banned across the EU from 2005. Thankfully, it has already been banned in the UK. However, there are still millions of tonnes of asbestos in Europe's buildings throughout the European Union. Those buildings will have to be demolished at some point, and the asbestos will have to be removed, repaired or maintained, with the consequent effect on the health and safety of all those asbestos workers. I welcome the fact that this directive will lower the exposure limit values for asbestos. I emphatically support the three amendments Mr Hughes has talked about. However, I was extremely disappointed that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs changed its mind after first reading; my amendments, which were not accepted, would have halved the exposure limit value. The committee's reasoning, as I understand it, was that, since the Council had not accepted my amendments, there was no point in going to conciliation as it would not have accepted them in future. However, we know from experience that the Council quite often changes it mind during the conciliation procedure, and it seems a great shame that we did not pursue those amendments. Had it saved just one asbestos worker's life, it would have been worth it. Nevertheless, I decided against retabling the amendments because I did not have the support of the Committee on Employment or the other groups in this House. Even though I would have liked to have seen the directive go further, it is still a very good directive and will save asbestos workers' lives across the EU. For that reason, I will advise my group to vote for this directive, because it is greatly needed. Mr President, I just wish to say that I was one of the people who tried to take the flight. I have always supported Strasbourg and have never voted against sitting here. However, I have decided that I really cannot come to Strasbourg any longer. None of us should be coming here. If Air France cannot get its act together and get Members of the European Parliament to Strasbourg, then we have to decide for ourselves that we meet in Brussels. It is not anti-French: it is anti-Air France. I am asking Air France to get its act together and the President of Parliament again to appeal to Air France, to appeal to the President of France, and say that, unless something is done, every single Member of the European Parliament will be against meeting in Strasbourg. It is just not acceptable to spend at least 12 hours travelling here and miss a whole day's work. – Madam President, when will my report be debated – the Lynne report on the European Year of People with Disabilities, 2003? Will that now be at around 3.30 p.m.? We have a sign language interpreter arriving now for the debate at 5.30 p.m. because everything has been changed around so much that we do not know when this report is being debated. I have deaf members of the public attending and we have the sign language interpreter. So can we please stick to some sort of timetable? – Mr President, 500 000 EU citizens die each year from smoking – that is 1 400 a day. Even if a small number of people stop, it will have huge health implications, not only for smokers but for passive smokers as well. It is important that we fight delaying tactics today. The EU already regulates health warnings and tar yields. Smokers also have a right to know that there are more than 600 additives licensed for use in tobacco products. They have a right to know that "light" and "mild" branding is misleading. People inhale more if they have a light cigarette than any other cigarette. The health warning should be large and explicit. We must warn of the dangers of smoking, the dangers of lung cancer and also the danger of bronchitis and asthma. People must know that it is not just lung cancer but other lung diseases and other diseases as well. We must warn of the dangers of passive smoking. I know the dangers of smoking and the dangers of passive smoking. I started smoking when I was 11 years old. I ended up smoking 40 a day. I had chronic bronchitis and I was told by the doctor that I had to give up as otherwise my life would be in danger. My health has been damaged by smoking. There was no warning when I took up smoking. Maybe I would not have taken it up if there had been. Now I am the victim of passive smoking. I just have to pass a cigarette and I have an asthma attack, especially in this building. I have asthma attack after asthma attack. I am a good example of why we should adopt this report now. Even if one person stops smoking as a result of this, or does not take it up; even if one person is not inconsiderate any more; even if it stops one person being hospitalised because of other people's smoke, it is worth it. – I applaud the innovative approach of the EQUAL programme and the aim of integrating discriminated groups into the labour market. The development partnerships are a very clever idea, even though they are experimental. I have two major concerns, however, about the development partnerships. They should be accessible to smaller groups, accessible for them to be able to devise, implement and monitor the programmes. We need to have a wide element of flexibility within the programme. I have also expressed concern in the past about the use of simple language and not using jargon, so that it becomes accessible to everyone. I am glad to see that this was accepted into the report, but I cannot agree with Amendment No 9 because that amendment really is not expressed in simple language at all. My second concern was that some discriminated groups have specific problems, for example, disabled people’s access to the workplace. Projects should also specifically address this problem. These concerns must be looked at while setting up the programmes. I certainly intend to do that with organisations and groups in my constituency in the West Midlands. I now turn to the controversial issue of asylum-seekers and refugees. Although I am not in favour of those refugees who have been refused refugee status and threatened with repatriation, having access to EQUAL, I would support the possibility of access for all other asylum-seekers and refugees. It is only fair and right for them to be able to access EQUAL in the same way as everyone else. . – Mr President, I too should like to congratulate Mrs Karamanou on this report. As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture, I should also like say a word of thanks for the cross-party cooperation I had in that committee on this most important issue. We must tackle the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography across the EU. Whatever anyone thinks of subsidiarity, for something as important as this we have to make sure we have common rules, particularly because of the Internet and the free movement of people across the EU countries. I know that there are several child pornographers who have set up business in one EU country because if they are caught they know they will get a lesser sentence in that country. We must make sure that we stamp that out. I am very pleased that much of the opinion I drafted has been accepted by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, particularly the section on penalties and ensuring that we have the same penalties across the EU. I thought the Commission was wrong to bring in tougher penalties for the exploitation of children under 10. I worked very hard in my committee to make sure we also set tougher penalties for those who commit offences against children under 16. I also wanted to bring in children with learning difficulties. I talked a lot with some of the organisations working in this field and they said that disabled children are twice as likely to be abused as any other children. It is important that we protect children with learning disabilities, whose mental age is often much lower than their physical age. The question of definitions is, of course, going to be difficult and we have to work on that. We had great difficulty in the Committee on Culture, as we have had across the board. But we must make sure that photographs of naked children are caught in that net. We see what happened with the Wonderland Club, where individuals had to provide 10,000 photographs of naked children in order to get into that Wonderland Club. I want to say very briefly that we have to clamp down on sex tourism and make sure that nationals from Member States can be prosecuted if they commit a crime in third countries. – Madam President, I should like to draw your attention to an internal matter. Some members of staff of the European Parliament both here and in Brussels, when they try to enforce European Parliament rules – in other words, no smoking in no-smoking areas or any of the other European Parliament rules – are sworn at and abused by some Members of Parliament. In other parliaments ushers are treated with the respect that they deserve. I would hope that happened in the European Parliament. If the situation does not improve, do you know if there are any disciplinary procedures we could take against those Members who treat the staff in such a disrespectful manner? – Obviously the farmers in the UK and in my constituency where we have a suspected case are absolutely devastated by this in addition to BSE. The Commissioner said that no funding from the EU had been requested for this at the moment. Would there be EU funding specifically available to help with foot-and-mouth? Will he also help the British Government to determine where the foot-and-mouth originally came from, because he said that we do not import from countries that do not have a clean record. I thought it was perhaps just regions of particular countries. Could he be a little more specific on that? Would he agree with me that the closure of the smaller abattoirs in the UK has perhaps led to the spread of the disease? – To reply to what you said to me, the regulations are already in place. European Parliament rules have been drawn up, and we are not abiding by them. – Mr President, I rise to request that you write to the Indian authorities again about the case of Ian Stillman, the British deaf charity worker who was imprisoned in India, convicted of drug smuggling. As you are aware, he was not provided with sign language interpretation at his trial. I am grateful that you wrote in the past, but last week his leave to appeal to the Supreme Court was turned down. The lead judge remarked that disabled people and deaf people are prone to carry drugs, which I thought was absolutely disgraceful. I would be grateful if you could write again, and also use your good offices in relation to the plane spotters. The issue here is one of the government and the judiciary, but of the government and the security services. – Mr President, I am pleased that we are debating this resolution today even though I would have preferred the ELDR resolution to have been the one we are debating. India and Pakistan have carried on this conflict for over fifty years now. There were UN resolutions that called for a plebiscite for the people of Kashmir all that time ago, and still nothing has happened. It is even more important now that we find a solution, especially as both India and Pakistan are nuclear powers. If there is another war across that border, I believe it could turn into a nuclear war, and that will be a problem not only for India and Pakistan and the people of Kashmir but for all of us. That is why I hope India and Pakistan will come to the negotiating table, together with the people of Kashmir. I would like to see either the European Union or the USA acting as an honest broker, as a mediator, to try to find an end to this dispute. But whatever happens, the human rights abuses must stop. We have daily reports of rapes, murder, torture, and a lot of people say, “Oh, this is an exaggeration”. But when I was in Azad Kashmir and I went to one of the refugee camps a few years ago I was very moved by the first-hand accounts I heard. I was even more moved when I went into a tent where the women and children were. I went up to one woman and although we could not speak each other’s languages we stood there and hugged each other. That woman was sobbing her heart out. I could almost touch the pain, really feel the pain of that woman. She was not acting it, she was not pretending it – nobody goes to a refugee camp for fun. They were there because they had been tortured, they had been mistreated and they were escaping. That was not an isolated incident, and it is still happening today. We must find a solution. They must come to the negotiating table. – Madam President, we have moved a long way from when the rapporteur brought a report first to the Employment and Social Affairs Committee. I think we still have problems for the entertainment and leisure industry but the rest of industry and the workers will find this directive very easy to live with. If the original proposals had gone through, industry across the EU would have been decimated and workers thrown out of work – particularly in the construction industry, cement industry, mining and quite a lot of engineering industry – so thank goodness we have returned to some sort of sensible solution and moved back to the Council position where hearing protection can be taken into account when measuring decibel levels. I am glad we have moved back to the weekly measurement granted by Member States if they so deem necessary. But the amendment granting the leisure and entertainment business a five-year delay for implementation while the Commission looked at the best way to regulate this industry, taking into account the special problems faced by the pub and club industry in particular, was unfortunately lost that in conciliation, although, with a code of conduct, it is better than was first proposed. I grant you that. But at the present moment the current noise directive is not being implemented in the pub and club industries, neither in the UK nor in Denmark or in many other Member States. The reason it is not being implemented is because it is not workable. My problem is that if we add another layer of bureaucracy for the pub and club industry like this, we will cause tremendous problems. That is why I personally refuse to sign off the conciliation because I believe we could have got more from the Council. I was on my own apart from one notable exception so I appreciate the vote tomorrow will not make any difference at all to the final outcome. We have, through a lot of hard work, got a better deal for industry and workers alike. We could have got a better deal for the entertainment and leisure sector and I am sorry we did not take that opportunity. . – Mr President, it is an honour to present this report on Iraq to Parliament this evening. I commend it for the vote tomorrow and I hope and believe that as many colleagues as possible will support it. Iraq is a country that is riven by tragedy: it is fraught with trauma, and the pain of its people stretches across the world. It is ruled by a tyrant, a predator, whose hunger for territory has led his army across into the Islamic Republic of Iran; he initiated the Iran-Iraq war – a million people died. Later, he moved into Kuwait, with the results that we all know so well and into the north of Iraq, where he chemically bombed the northern Iraqis. And in the south of Iraq, he has drained the historic Iraqi marshlands. The actions of one man and his regime have destroyed 5000 years of unbroken human civilisation, causing the worst humanitarian tragedy since the Second World War, according to the United Nations special rapporteur for human rights of Iraq. He is a man of deep cruelty, he runs a reign of terror and, as a recent émigré who fled from Iraq said, he has made a modern concentration camp out of Iraq. With such a situation, what can the European Parliament offer? We need to think how different Iraq could be. Iraq has the capacity to be the wealthiest nation in the globe per capita with her oil and other resources. She has the example, in the three governates of northern Iraq, of democracy and the Rule of Law. Iraqi people are highly talented, most able and, until Saddam Hussein took over, they had a high standard of education and health and some democracy. So what does the report recommend that is different, that adds value to this very long-running debate? We make a number of proposals that I commend to this House. First, we recommend the establishment of an ad hoc international criminal tribunal. That has been called for before – I called for it myself in 1988. What is different? We are recommending that it is set up to try not just Saddam Hussein but all of his officials who have carried out gross violations of human rights, both inside and outside of Iraq's territory. Since that is difficult to set up, we recommend strongly and powerfully that the European Union takes the initiative and sets up an office for inquiry into the huge violations of human rights. We should be able to collect and prepare the necessary evidence and to produce an official register of the numerous violations perpetrated by the Iraqi regime. We want this to be set up without delay. We call upon the Commission and the Council of Ministers to facilitate this and to make it happen. This would make a tremendous difference to the future of the Iraqi people. Secondly, we call for the nomination of the Iraqi marshlands – drained down to the last 10% now – as a world heritage site. We believe that this could be done; it could be restored. We call upon the Islamic Republic of Iran to take charge of the small patch of the marshlands still undrained that remains within its country. Again we ask the international community and the European Union to take special note of the 3.5 million refugees who fled from Iraq in the last 11 years. Those refugees are being given insufficient support. None of the oil-for-food programme goes to help them and they get very little else. We call upon the European Union, and the Commission in particular, to look at and review their programme and to provide good support for those refugees so that they can be retrained and can bring democracy back into the future Iraq. So we are recommending a rehabilitation agenda. I have ignored the comments, the amendments that talk about war. This House has no competence over war or troops, so we are recommending that we should provide training and civilian support. We should call upon everyone to put every possible pressure upon the regime of Iraq to let in the weapons inspectors and give them untrammelled access throughout the country. We see the future for Iraq, and I call upon this House to support the report. – The situation in Sierra Leone continues to be extremely unstable. The peace agreement offered improved conditions to only a very small number of the RUF hierarchy. As the rains in Sierra Leone have come to an end, the campaign of violence and terror against the civilian population has resumed. To improve things we need to change the quality of government. It is a country which was highly educated and highly law-abiding. It is being ruined by international money laundering: diamonds are more easy to exchange internationally than money. But the poor respect both education and humanitarian values and they respect democracy. Soon there will be another general election. We should support that push for democracy. They have earned their chance to vote. I call upon the European Parliament and the European Commission to give funding for education, basic justice and democracy immediately. – Mr President, this motion is both topical and urgent. It is urgent because we have not yet defined how to control the spread of small arms and light weapons, nor have we strengthened the code to cover conventional arms. Death and destruction can be caused by almost any means. I saw recently the mass grave in Rwanda of up to half a million people bludgeoned to death by physical weapons, called machetes: just a single weapon in the hand of one man killing person after person. Half a million people were genocidally slaughtered by this method. Some time ago, 25 000 people died as a result of ground-to-ground missiles in the marshlands of southern Iraq. I saw where they had been killed by just one ground-to-ground missile. So death and destruction can come by simple or complex means. We have to address that. That is the urgency. The topicality of the motion comes because the year 2000 has now been declared by the United Nations to be the year for peace and to usher in a decade of UN aims for peace. Let us, in this motion, also put our hands behind that effort. – Madam President, my apologies. Amendment No 9 is discriminatory, in my view, on grounds of religion. Mr President, you are right that we must investigate transparency and accountability. Could we also investigate whether we are within the law with regard to employment? I have been continually concerned at the lack of an assistants' statute. Does this not give us an opportunity to check and confirm that we are within the employment legislation? – Mr President, I am dismayed at the United States' belligerency towards the free market in steel, particularly since free trade has been the hallmark of the USA since the 18th century. I am appalled at the concomitant weakening of the all-important transatlantic alliance that this creates: an alliance that is the world's greatest force for peace today and one that gives unrivalled opportunities for prosperity to the world's 1 billion poorest people. But since the European Union and the USA share essential values, I cannot believe that the US seriously intends to follow this destructive course of action. I therefore see this as a purely political manoeuvre – President Bush placating domestic and special-interest lobbies. We must be tough and then we will succeed. The cause is good. The arguments are correct. I firmly support the Commission and the Council of Ministers and I believe that with EU backing and pressure, the World Trade Organization will act correctly and throw out the US position, and that President Bush will welcome this. – Mr President, thank you for this innovation which is most welcome. I congratulate the Danish presidency very warmly and naturally I congratulate my colleague, Mr Haarder, a former good member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy as well as of this group, on his current tasks. However, friends in the presidency, I have a request for you which, as the Danish presidency, I believe you will wish to grant. Today in the Treaty of Rome we give rights – human rights and animal rights – but we give no rights to children. Yet the fall of the Berlin Wall and the ending of the Cold War threw open a devastating picture of child abuse, child neglect, child misery and child hunger and despair such as we have not seen in Europe since the Second World War. Today, with the enlargement of the European Union, the situation has not got better. Why do I say that? Because there is ample evidence, alas, that the breaking down of borders, that the enlargement of the European Union, factors such as globalisation, the Internet and Schengen Agreements have made the tragedy of child abuse still worse. Children today are at risk as they have not been before; they are trafficked around the globe in vast numbers. Traffickers, organised criminals and separation from their parents – these are among the many things of which children are victims. The European Union cannot do everything, but we are uniquely powerful. What I ask is that you work with me and with the Children's Alliance, a group of us across the floor of this House, belonging to every single group, so that we can secure unanimous support. We seek to put into the Accession Treaty and into the Treaty of Rome something so simple, just a commitment to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which every single Member State has signed and ratified. The most important convention in the history of the world, it has the most ratifications. Only the USA now stands out against it. The Commission has played its part. It is in the . It should now be in the Accession Treaty and in the Treaty of Rome. President—in-Office, will you work with me on this? – Mr President, it is a matter of regret that our debate today has been marred by a small cluster of hostile amendments. These have been put forward by the TDI, GUE et al. I find them unseemly, ill-advised, untimely and inappropriate because these are amendments which use three words – "genocide", "Muslim" and "Asian" – in a way that is racist, derogatory and discriminatory and which causes impenetrable and false barriers to be erected against Turkey's accession to the Union. Muslims follow one of the three Abrahaminic faiths. Islam is the brother of Christianity and Judaism. "Asian", in this context, is used as a racist term to be deplored and dropped. As regards genocide: Turkey is not responsible for the Armenian massacre. If we accept that, do we then place all of the Ottoman Empire's crimes against humanity at modern Turkey's door? Indeed, the UN Convention of 1948 has not been broadened to include the Armenian tragedy. Until that happens I do not think this Parliament should act differently. I welcome Turkey's careful progress towards the Union and I support the Commission and the Morillon report. .  Mr President, I should like to recommend to the House that we split this vote in two and, in respect of the wishes of the House, that we delete the first half of the paragraph and then vote on the second half. I believe that will meet all Members' concerns. – Madam President, I ask if Amendment No 3 has been checked for admissibility, as it is wholly discriminatory on grounds of religion. – Mr President, I visited Kuwait recently where I met a man whose childhood friend has been killed during the assault by Iraq upon Kuwait. He went out into the street and saw his friend’s body. When he put his hands down he saw that he was dead. He found that he was touching almost a piece of jelly. The Iraqi soldiers had broken every single bone in that man’s body. When we talk about the Iraqi people let us not forget the 750 or so Kuwaiti prisoners of war still inside Iraqi prisons. We do not know what has happened to them. We have to keep looking. I visited Iran. I have talked to the families of prisoners who are still in Iraq from the Iran/Iraq war of 1981-1988. A million people were killed because of Saddam’s assault and predatory efforts inside Iran. Maybe 25 to 30,000 prisoners from Iran are still inside Iraqi prisons. Let us not forget those people either. I have been to Kurdistan. I have seen the results of the chemical weapons. Do not let us forget the half million Kurdistani people whose lives have been taken away from them by Baghdad since they were invaded in the north with chemical weapons in August 1988 shortly after Saddam was driven out of Iran. I have been to the marshlands of Iraq many times, the antique heritage of the world, the marshlands of Mesopotamia. I have seen year after year the steady drainage, the reduction of the water, and the fact now that over half a million marsh dwellers, reaching right back beyond the beginnings of civilisation of our world, have now had their livelihood, their lives destroyed, their place removed from under their feet by the Iraqi marsh drainage. And why? So that Saddam can get his tanks closer to Iran and closer to Kuwait so that he can invade more easily next time. The no-fly zones have been effective in protecting the lives of at least some of those people but we should do more; we must do more. It is within our power to restore the marshes of Iraq. This man is a monster. When we talk about the no-fly zone, when we talk about the collateral damage, do not let us forget that point. In 1989, he earned USD 15 billion from oil and he spent 13 billion on arms. In 1999 he earned USD 16 billion and at least, legally, he could not spend any on arms. I recommend that we look at taking the food distribution of the “oil for food programme” out of his hands, that we look at tearing down those dams that have wrecked the marshes and that we work to set up a criminal court where he can be tried at least in abstentia. When we talk of a policy on Iraq, Commissioner Patten spoke about the recklessness of the Iraq regime. It is not recklessness it is ruthlessness. This man is indeed a modern Hitler. – Madam President, in the Foreign Affairs Committee this week we suffered a physical intrusion into our debates which stopped our debates three times. We now know that this intrusion happened at the invitation of certain members of this Parliament. Would Madam President apologise to our guests, the Turkish Foreign Minister Mr Cem and his Ambassador Mr Akiyol, and would Madam President remonstrate strongly with those Members who deliberately arranged the demonstration today as it was a travesty of our normal Parliamentary hospitality and could have led to physical harm. ( – Mr President, this motion celebrates the good news, the successful ending of the Sharm el-Sheikh negotiations and the agreement of safe passage for Palestinian goods, vehicles and people. But the safe passage is physically just a narrow corridor through which freedom of movement, a central tenet of European Union philosophy, is hedged about with many necessary security constrictions. May these soon ease as confidence builds up. Free trade also needs fair pricing in order for the producer and the seller to make due profit, as well as honest labelling of product origins and processes to satisfy the customers’ requirements on health and choice. Both these key free trade elements have been absent in part or in whole from Palestinian export trade, particularly in textiles and in agricultural products. Conflict has dominated the trade agenda too. This motion calls for an end to all trade obstructions. Only then can three close neighbours – Israel, Palestine and Jordan – build real prosperity for all their peoples. Yes, there are risks involved, but what a prize to win. I commend this motion to Parliament. .  Mr President, this report represents a wide-ranging analysis of the problems facing Romania in its development to meet the high standards we demand for joining the European Union. The resolution clearly points out that much remains to be done in Romania for political criteria to be adhered to in full. The functioning of Parliament, the relationship with the executive and the judicial system and the overall functioning of the rule of law: all are questioned. This point involves many issues such as corruption, which is widespread in Romania, involving administrative officials, judges, politicians and in its sum undermines the functioning application of the rule of law. This must be the reason why corruption in the area of international adoptions has continually been circumvented by special adoption commissions. The moratorium has been ignored and set aside, meaning that many children, even babies, identified as suitable for adoption by the government, signed off by the prime minister, have in reality been taken from suitable family settings by the authorities, against their will and disregarding the wishes of their foster families whose interest in adopting those same children was denied. I have written evidence of many of these cases and stand happy to show them to anyone who wishes to see them. In contrast, my resolution also deals with the achievements of Romania in the economic field, where many structural reforms have been undertaken that we praise. But these must also and will need to be pursued most vigorously in the coming months and years. But we hope too that the Romanian Government will give greater prominence to the needs to the lower strata of society in Romania. In many areas simple, civilisational assets such as running water and sewage disposal systems are missing. Surely the preaccession process must also benefit the many millions of poverty stricken citizens. We in the European Parliament want to help them not just to survive, but to thrive. Only if the Romanian Government and its administration are willing to forego corruption in all its insidious forms can poverty ever be conquered in Romania. Honesty has not only a commercial value. Honesty provides the essential bond of trust between the state and citizen upon which democracy relies. The report also points out the developments in the area of developing and implementing the , where much still needs to be done to build up the administrative and judicial capacity not only to have laws on paper and in Parliament, but to ensure that they are implemented in such a way that they can play a real and positive role in the lives of citizens. This report as it stands was passed with unanimity in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy with no abstentions. This exceptional consensus across all parties regarding the main thrust of the report has already had a positive impact in Romania. The situation has changed, however. Already there has been root and branch reform of government with many new ministerial positions and responsibilities. Tomorrow I understand there will be a new children's law. I understand there is some hesitation and a little confusion among our Socialist colleagues – due to the swiftness of the changes in the situation in Romania – on how to vote. As the vote is now likely to be held tomorrow, I urge the PSE Group to have a new exchange of views on this so that I can fulfil my task as rapporteur and ensure that they have the fullest and most up-to-date information. After the vote, I will be calling upon the Commission to report back to Parliament on how the Commissioner's team will now proceed. I believe that such a report must come back to this Parliament before we rise for the European elections in May. I will also call upon the Council to accept the reality of Parliament's clear and unequivocal position. Council cannot simply continue along the old line that all is well in Romania and that entry in 2007 is the done deal that we have been told it is since Rome last year. This is not so. In the United Kingdom, the Parliament of which I also had the honour to be a member, is omnipotent and omnicompetent. I have no doubt that other national parliaments of EU Member States hold the same responsibilities. The European people have the final say. We all want Romania to join the European Union, but not at a price that is too high for the European citizens to pay. In conclusion, the European Parliament is a true friend of Romania. This strongly worded report has been compiled by Members of the European Parliament across the political divide, from all Member States and with Romania's best interests in our hearts. Bucharest must act on the report's recommendations if Romania is to succeed in membership of the European Union. I hope and I believe that it will do just that. . – Mr President, I thank my colleagues in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy for giving me another opportunity to work on Romania's accession to the European Union of Romania. At the moment, Romania has a unique opportunity, unequalled in modern times, to make very swift progress. For the first time in living history, it has a stable government, elected on a democratic mandate. It has clear political leadership, a greater understanding of the European Union's Community values and exceptionally good economic signals. The reform process is under way under the tutelage of the European Commission and with the efforts the Romanian administration has made on the  a larger number of chapters is under negotiation now than had been anticipated. If Romania continues to move ahead in this way and has the courage to undertake the painful political structural reforms, there is nothing to stop Romania joining the European Union without delay and it is pleasing to know that 79% of Romanians are enthusiastic about this prospect. The accession process is continuing. The number of chapters is increasing and I am pleased to announce that the Commission could receive all the position papers from the Ministry by Christmas, if it is able to do so. Certainly that is what the European Ministry for Integration in Romania is hoping for. President Iliescu announced in Gothenburg that he hoped and believed that all chapters could be fulfilled during his period of office. We in Parliament are dismayed and I am sure others must be too, that the visa restrictions have not yet been lifted. The Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs are meeting today and I sincerely hope that they will come to the conclusion that visa restrictions are no longer necessary for Romanian citizens. It is pleasing to note that the German Ambassador to Romania last week opened the new embassy by laying the foundation stone and saying that this embassy will have no visa section. The Romanian Government has decided to be judged by action and not by words. It has already done excellent foreign affairs work through Romania's chairmanship of the OSCE and made excellent progress in its relationships with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. It might be dogged by poverty, but good things have happened; industrial productivity has gone up by 17% and inflation is coming down little by little. Romania's largest investor is still France, but other EU Member States such as Germany, Italy, Greece and the United Kingdom are coming in. It has at the same time been cementing its relationship with North America and particularly with the USA. But Romania's destiny remains in Europe and her future lies with NATO and the European Union. Perhaps Ceausescu's bitter legacy, however, was responsible for the fact that the political will for change was slower to emerge in Romania than in some other former Soviet Union candidate countries. Indeed, the treatment of children in Romania, as the Commissioner mentioned this morning, rapidly became a global media horror story. Today, however, Romania is in the process of change, helped all the way along the line by the Commission's faultless work in Brussels and Bucharest and guided by long-term friends here in Parliament right across the political spectrum. We are working as a team to assist Romania in her progress towards the European Union. As the Commissioner said on another occasion, the progress of integration is unstoppable. Romania is an integral part of that process and social change in the last few months has been rapid. Gay rights are now part of law, an anti-trafficking law has recently been passed and domestic violence law has gone through. A children's act, on children's rights, which will incorporate adoption law, both local and international, is now being prepared. The high-level group for Romanian children is moving towards registration. This will incorporate a wise persons' panel to assess Romania's capacity to come back into the inter-country adoption world when the time is right. It is imperative that the children's act is not hurried. Local adoptions have doubled in the last few months and 20 000 children are leaving special schools this week and will be going back into normal schools and normal life. That is tremendous progress. Here may I pay special tribute to my Spanish colleagues in the European Parliament, who have had many pressures on them from different families in Spain. I am delighted that the new Romanian Government has nominated very competent officials to review the problems that these Spanish families are facing. I will keep a very careful eye on this and report back to my Spanish colleagues. In conclusion, Romania has much to offer the European Union and the world. Its deep-rooted knowledge of its early European status in the Roman Empire gives it every encouragement to work through these difficult times and in due course become a full Member of the European Union. Madam President, my congratulations to the rapporteur for a very fine report, which I know we will all support. I should also like to thank the Commissioner and his team for their fine work in the field. I remind colleagues that in October 2001 the oppression of Afghan women was highlighted globally. The assumption was made that the removal of the Taliban regime would ease the women's plight. Today, two and a half years on, Amnesty claims that the international community and the Afghan administration have been unable to protect the rights of women. Rape and sexual violence by members of the occupying armed forces are still widespread. In the western province of Herat, Taliban-like decrees are still widespread and, as a result of this oppression, more women in Afghanistan are committing suicide now than they were under the Taliban regime. Human Rights Watch reports many sexual assaults against children. Despite the rhetoric, the creation of the Women's Ministry, the Karzai Government pursues anti-women policies, and there is no legal protection, while older legal systems still in position prohibit them from getting help. Women's resistance to the regime still has to work underground. The Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan is forbidden to open an office and distribute its magazine. People caught reading its literature are still in physical danger. Commissioner Patten said that Afghanistan had reached a crossroads. I believe, as do Amnesty, Human Rights Watch and the Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan, that the government has taken a wrong turn and that the position of women is worse than it was before. – Mr President, I too congratulate the High Representative, Mr Solana, and Commissioner Patten for their untiring work. We share your frustration at the lack of outcomes. Has the time come now for us to move on from dialogue and move into shared partnerships, overcoming perceived religious differences to tackle common human evils of poverty, ill health and illiteracy? Surely the place today for dialogue is within Islam, between Muslim and Muslim, to work out ways of discarding false jihads, rejecting distorted interpretations of the Koran that lead inevitably to misguided martyrdoms and terrorist assaults. Islam is a faith that promotes peace, equality and a secure life. Meanwhile we should tackle the lack of democracy in the oil-rich states. Here we can assist through building civil society and use means such as our association agreement with Egypt to exert undoubted influence. High Representative Solana mentioned the Islamic Republic of Iran. My view is his as well. I believe we should open a Commission office in Tehran as soon as possible. This is an Islamic state, and yet a democracy; it has Sharia law, and yet a parliament. Surely Iran is part of the solution rather than part of the problem – a peaceful society in a violent region. I thank our Commissioner and our High Representative and their staff for all their work. – Mr President, the risk of terrorism is omnipresent now. The dull and brooding presence of sudden, unanticipated and violent death hangs over military and civilians alike in all our nations. Links have been found recently between the Al Qaeda network and pro-Saddam forces fighting the free Kurdish people in northern Iraq. However, a much better established and older terrorist organisation has been working inside Iraq since 1986: the MKO, or MEK as they are known inside the USA. The MKO have thousands of members inside Iraq and thousands outside, financed, equipped, armed and trained by the Iraqi army and fully engaged, militarily at least, since 1986 in all of Saddam's many wars. The USA froze MEK assets in 1994, declaring the group under its many aliases to be an international terrorist organisation. The EU followed the US example as late as 2001, yet last week the New York Times published a full-page advertisement for the MEK, using the names and photographs of members of the US Congress and claiming their support. Our recent debates on Iraq have been attended by known members of MKO. These people are a threat to world security. Their organisation strikes silently but with lethal impact. This is Saddam's private international terrorist army, working against us all. Whatever our differences on the future treatment of Iraq, for the sake of our citizens and global safety, I urge that far greater security attention be paid to the MKO. For war or no war, with or without a war, the criminals who make up the MKO continually kill and destroy the innocent among us. . – Madam President, I want to clarify my remarks of yesterday on my report to avoid any misunderstanding on inter-country adoption by Spanish families of Romanian children in the last ten years. I can say categorically that the vast majority of these cases have been processed fully and properly by the Spanish authorities and by the families in question. Indeed I know that they have resulted in many happy outcomes, some of which are known to my Spanish colleagues here in Parliament. I can add that the authorities in the European Union Member States have, of course, been acting with full propriety on this sensitive matter and that none have acted more rigorously than the Spanish authorities. I am grateful to Spanish colleagues here for drawing this need for clarification to my attention and in particular to Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado and Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra. I look forward to continued fruitful cooperation with all of my Spanish colleagues in this Parliament in the future. – Mr President, the state of Kuwait offers many opportunities for able women today. Dr Rasha Al-Sabah, the long-serving Under-Secretary of Higher Education, is joined by Dr Fayezah Al-Khorafi, President of the University of Kuwait; Her Excellency Nabila Al-Mulla, who is Ambassador of the State of Kuwait to Austria; Siham Ruzuqi, the Assistant Under-Secretary at the Ministry of Oil; another Assistant Under-Secretary: Sarah Duwaisan at the Ministry of Planning; and in civil society: Shaikha Hussah Al-Salim Al-Mubarek Al-Sabah, the President of Dar Al-Athar Al-Islamiya, the Islamic Museum of Kuwait. It is not surprising with this record of achievement of highly able women in Kuwait that, on 16 May 1999, His Highness the Prince of the State of Kuwait issued an official decree giving the Kuwaiti woman the right of voting and of nomination to parliament, but it is parliament who has turned this down. Despite this, the Kuwaiti Parliament is different from the other parliaments of the Arabian Gulf. The 50 Members of Parliament are directly elected, not nominated, not appointed as is the case in other Arab Gulf States. The Members of Parliament can question ministers in parliament at any time. That questioning can be so fierce that it can even lead to the resignation of ministers. Also, the parliament controls the government's annual budget. I believe that there will be another vote before too long, perhaps within two or three months, because this is a democratically elected parliament. It is unthinkable that universal suffrage in a democracy will not be achieved in the end. As a parliamentarian, therefore, I call upon my fellow parliamentarians – here and in our national parliaments too – to urge Kuwaiti parliamentarians to give women that right to vote and stand. That is an historic step forward and one that I believe they will not regret. – Mr President, it is truly wonderful to know that enlargement is so well on track and that common agricultural policy reform will not hold up the entry of the fast track ten. The European Commission's regular report marks a critically important step for Romania, and, I would guess, for Bulgaria as well. Yet Romania has concerns that her own entry date may somehow be held up by the energy and commitment that we are putting into the first ten. From Parliament, we can send a clear signal of our intent by endorsing Romania's chosen target date of 1 January 2007. Yesterday, in the Foreign Affairs Committee, we agreed to do just that. I hope that this will be passed by Plenary too. After all, we in Parliament thought of the date of 2004 in the beginning, and the same date is appropriate for Bulgaria. Turning to Turkey, the EU is a secular group of institutions and therefore religion is no barrier to membership. I believe it would be a right and proper endorsement if we were able to send a signal to the new Turkish Government that if it fulfils the Copenhagen criteria of democratic values deeply entrenched and implemented in law, then perhaps the date of June 2004 would be appropriate for negotiations. My congratulations go to all of those concerned in the work to date. – Mr President, we run the risk today of fiddling while Rome burns. At any moment the current low-intensity aerial defence of southern and northern Iraq – which has been carried out at considerable personal risk by pilots from the USA, originally from France, and also from the UK, to whom I pay tribute as they have saved countless lives – may be stepped up to considerably heavier military action, which I believe will have support from a wide number of countries which are at present silent about their opinions. The EU voice must be heard. We must no longer stand on the sidelines, wringing our hands and repeating like a hopeless prayer 'Iraq must comply with UN conventions and the weapons inspectors must go in' because this leopard will not change his spots. We have ample evidence of the use of weapons of mass destruction. I have first-hand personal evidence of the use of such weapons: chemical warfare against the southern Iraqi people in the late 1990s. I have talked to the victims who stumbled choking from clouds of yellow smoke that must have been mustard gas. We have evidence first hand of the destruction of the environment, the water, the degradation of life in the marshes of the deep south, for example. We talk in Johannesburg about the need to bring water to millions more people, yet we have allowed Saddam Hussein to take away the water from over half a million Iraqi people. We have stood silent. We have first-hand evidence of that. We have been overflying the south since 1994. On human rights and genocide: as Max van der Stoel said when he was human rights reporter on Iraq for the United Nations: 'Genocide has been carried out against the Marsh Arabs and the Iraqi people'. We have evidence of that; I personally have had evidence at first hand. On weapons of mass destruction: surely our quarrel is not precisely about having weapons of mass destruction – quite a number of countries sadly have such weapons – it is what you do with them that counts. We have the continuing threats of Saddam Hussein to invade Kuwait and Iran. I have seen the mined borders and the tanks just over the borders from Iran. We have that evidence available. What can we do? We can set up the Office of Inquiry for Human Rights Violations that was recommended in our report, which the Commissioner so kindly referred to just now. We had a full house – an 85% majority for the vote on that report. I call upon the Commissioner and the Council of Ministers to set up that office today. . – Mr President, I recommend a vote against Amendment No 12. We have placed this amendment in 6a in order to respond to the PSE Group request. This is a sensible amendment which covers the entirety of the requests from the PSE Group. I would vote against Amendment No 12. – I rise to speak about the women of Afghanistan. At a time when Christmas is approaching, this offers one opportunity, among the multiplicity of human rights abuses globally, for Muslims and Christians to come together against the forces of evil. For Islam and Christianity both uphold the rights of women, and the abuses of human rights against women that are taking place in Afghanistan, and have been taking place for so long now, are against the ethics of Islam. No proper Muslim in the world will support the treatment of women that has been meted out by the bestial Afghan sadists and torturers. It is an unbelievable situation but it is one in which we can join hands, bring forces to bear upon the Taliban society and free those poor women. Why have we held back? I am ashamed of this. I call upon us all to intervene in Afghanistan with Islam, with Christians, with Jews, with the entirety of the world. There can be no hanging back in the millennium: free these poor women now! – Mr President, as has been mentioned, this important debate is taking place against the background of further crises on the border of Kosovo and Macedonia. First of all, therefore, I have to stress the on-going need for cooperation between NATO and the European Union. The Rapid Reaction Force, the rapid reaction mechanism, and the Civil Peace Corps must be complementary to NATO. Indeed that is stressed in paragraph 8 of the General Affairs Council's comments on international cooperation. As has been mentioned by Minister Lindh, soldiers today carry out peace-making Community activities. The crossover between peace and war activities is now difficult to see. The European Union must be complementary to NATO. I urge the Council of Ministers and the Commission to comment on that point. Tackling the root causes is another problem. Society is seriously destabilised by organised crime. Can the Commission and Ministers stress that they will tackle this across borders through Interpol and with mechanisms such as Scotland Yard's Paedophile Unit? Capacity building is another critical point. When we look at Pristina we see that the hospital is under great stress. Is it not a necessity for the new AIDCO organisation that the Commission has created, which we welcome, to build up the capacity of the medical and educational professions? Local professionals maintain civilian society but under stress, however excellent NGOs may be, surely local professionals, particularly in education and medicine, are vital. I urge the Commission to support those functions. Finally, of course, accountability. I truly believe, and I am sure everyone here does too, that the best of all conflict prevention mechanisms is a fully functioning Parliament. I urge those present to ensure that this Parliament plays its full part, not just in conflict prevention and crisis management, but in ensuring that the Rapid Reaction Force has an ultimate responsibility to this Parliament as well as to national parliaments, the Council of Ministers and the Commission. – Mr President, it is a pleasure to welcome the two outstanding reports put forward by Mr Morillon, and I turn first to the report which he has prepared on Customs Union to say how much we welcome that report in which we must remind Turkey that she too has to play her part. The European Union has made major efforts over a number of years to ensure this Customs Union is successful, and Turkey herself must now ensure that she fulfils the role that she is called upon to play. I also support what is perhaps the more contentious report. It is a welcome report on economic and social development in Turkey and was supported in the Committee for Foreign Affairs this week. Here the joint forum has to be of major importance, and again both sides must fulfil their role. We are, of course, confident that we will do so. We remain confident that Turkey will also. In this period of time before Helsinki, it is vital that we look too at the rule of law, human rights, respect for minorities, protection and recognition of their cultural identity and support for measures seeking to abolish capital punishment, one of the amendments that came before our committee to the Morillon report this week. We have, of course, the unhappy fact of one death penalty upheld in Turkey at this very moment. But I believe there is good news that we can focus on even in that tragic situation where the possibility of a citizen losing his life at the hands of the State is upheld by the Court of Appeal. May I remind my colleagues here today that Turkey has not used the death penalty in practice since 1984. There has been an effective moratorium in place since then with the result that 53 people who were defined as subject to what we would call cruel and inhuman punishment, have had their cases put on one side. At the moment the Minister for the European Council and Human Rights, is reported in today's issue of , the daily paper, as being firmly against capital punishment. There is a new law coming to the Turkish Parliament in the year 2000, put forward by academics, in which for the first time ever the proposed criminal justice bill does not contain the death penalty. Let us hope and believe that in this year 2000, Turkey's commitment to our millennium year globally will be the abolition of the death penalty once and for all through the democratic parliamentary process. – I should like to congratulate Commissioner Verheugen and his staff for the consistent concern and attention they have shown with regard to this important issue. Is the Commissioner aware that 93% of Romanian people are against inter-country adoption as a solution for abandoned children in Romania, as is the Romanian Government, and that the Romanian Orthodox Church to which 89% of Romanian citizens belong, wholly opposes such a practice? Is he further aware that the payments made by these Spanish families have gone to Romanian foster families over a period of time, and thus these children are not officially abandoned according to international conventions, particularly the UN Convention, which has been ratified by the governments of all the Member States, including Spain and therefore forms a part of the ? – Mr President, I visited Iraq 12 days ago. I spent 8 days in the south, reviewing the public health situation in my capacity as the World Health Organisation's Special Envoy. I listened to the people. I met with 50 tribal leaders, upwards of 20 000 Marsh Arabs, and I reviewed and inspected extensively hospitals and primary health clinics in Basra, Al-Amara and other smaller towns and villages. I re-opened the World Health Organisation Office and I set up a clinic now dealing with 15 000 medical consultations a month. The people are relishing their freedom. Their joyfulness is tempered only by the continuation of the bitter legacy of Saddam. Their lives were malignly regulated down to the smallest detail. Saddam modelled his total control on Stalin, whom he emulated. The ordinary Iraqi family's purchase, even of one bar of soap, was politically directed and controlled. When sentenced to ear amputation, the prisoner had to seek out and pay the surgeon to perform the mutilation. The more money the prisoner was able to offer, the more ear the surgeon permitted to remain intact. A trade in human flesh, a cruel bargain with Saddam Hussein - for Saddam owned the Iraqi people's every movement from tear-sodden cradle to early and unquiet grave. These systems are still intact and throttling the Iraqi people. It is early days. The coalition forces are doing fine work, particularly in the south and in delivering public health to the people of Iraq. The United Nations - especially the World Health Organisation - is now fully engaged and is using its specialist skills to excellent effect. However, the UN can only do so much in such a complex and difficult political situation. Patience is needed, as is the continuing security provided by the coalition forces, to give the Iraqi people the time and space they need to unravel the evil web Saddam wove so skilfully around them. The task now is to help the people to enjoy their freedom and to entrench it constitutionally and politically for future generations. – Mr President, we know that one reason for military intervention is the search for weapons of mass destruction, but there are, of course, other reasons. Parliament's resolution of May 2002 made a proposal which still has not been taken up. It suggested that an international ad-hoc tribunal be set up to try Saddam Hussein and his officials, and that the Commission should set up an office of human rights to collect the evidence. There are, of course, different reasons for intervening: humanitarian interventions, self-defence, Article 51, as was used in Afghanistan, and now a new proposal of anticipatory self-defence – the so-called pre-emptive strike – discussed by President Bush for regime change. Even the 'bullet in the head' option has been discussed. But this Parliament, surely, should have one thing in mind: the people of Iraq. Here I call for a prosecution of Saddam Hussein and his officials under the 1948 Genocide Convention. This is a crime against humanity of such a scale that it can never be forgiven and we must invoke justice and the rule of law. The Genocide Convention to which we and all our allies are parties imposes a duty upon us to punish all acts of genocide ordered by constitutionally-responsible rulers. It expressly envisages that an international court may be established for that purpose, preferably in the territory in which the crimes were committed and if not, elsewhere. In this way all perpetrators may be tried by such international panel tribunals which may have jurisdiction with respect to those contracting parties which have accepted its jurisdiction. The Nuremberg precedent reminds us that a torturer is a torturer even if you are in a uniform and you have accepted an order to torture one of your fellow men or women. In other words, being an official does not exempt you from prosecution. This means that we have an absolute duty to look not just at Saddam Hussein but at all of those officials. What are Saddam Hussein's genocidal acts? In the past, we have seen the use of chemical weapons in the north, the decimation of the gypsies, the persecution of Jews, the Assyrian Christians, over three-quarters of a million displaced people, assaults on Shia Muslims and those of Iranian descent. Thirty years of murderous assault and still he goes after the remnants of those unfortunate people. Genocide now concerns the marsh Arabs: over half a million people destroyed in the last few years. They have lost their place, the people, the fish, the animals, the water, the land, their homes, their farms, villages, towns, boats and agriculture through killing, burning and draining. We have seen the total destruction of a unique, distinctively different and ancient tribal people. That is genocide. A UN resolution is required but we need the evidence to be brought up front, in front of the peoples of the world, to alter the perception of why this course of action is required. The establishment of the Office of Human Rights was accepted in principle by Commissioner Patten at our debate in May 2002. I urge him to set up this office without delay – we have already lost too much time. Mr President, Iraq today belongs to the Iraqi people. Freedom from the yoke of a terrible tyranny has been achieved. 30 years of vicious oppression, marked only by a few bloodied milestones of failed invasions abroad and genocidal assaults at home lie in the past. Yet guilty men and women are still at large. Trials are essential, but Iraqi judges cannot carry the burden alone. Their vulnerability is too acute to act in isolation of an international judicial framework and a freer Iraq lies vulnerable to gangs of organised criminals as well as to terrorist incursions. Securing her borders as well as the provision of increased protection for the Iraqi people are both imperatives today. Surely the time has come for Nato to join with the Coalition forces. These already number many nations, but lack the benefits of Nato's longstanding expertise and close coordination. The Nato umbrella could properly protect the UN's essential guiding hand in an advisory, humanitarian and developmental role. Without that protection the UN agencies simply cannot function. The keynote themes of the late and much mourned Ayatollah Mohammed Baqir al-Hakim included the demand for the full establishment of the rule of law and of the entrenchment of human rights in a federal constitution. Inward investment, the development of civil society, small businesses and citizens’ rights and freedoms, are also part of the democratic process that is starting to come together. We in the European Union have decades of confidence and experience in all these fields. Let us now take up the challenge and join, in every way we can, in the restoration of Iraq's rich culture and human diversity and her return into the family of nations, through the establishment of a free and democratic state. – Mr President, may I first congratulate the Greek minister for taking up the Presidency. We look forward with confidence to a very successful and very effective six months. The President today commented that our aim must be to bring Afghanistan into a modern statehood. Women's rights give increasing cause for concern, they are not improving, they are becoming worse. Facial covering has become mandatory in many parts of the country; the movement of women is heavily restricted. Virginity is examined on the whim of the police, women are dragged into hospitals and physically examined. In other words, women are reverting to their traditional subordinate role of being the property of the male. The Commissioner has already commented that women's rights in certain areas of the country are under assault, but I say this is also happening at central government level. Women are now forbidden to be presenters on radio or television, which some of them were doing successfully. I have no doubt that women journalists are also under pressure in the written media. Under-representation of women has been commented on already, but I would ask you to recall the famous Loya Jirga, which was almost 100% male. When the deputy Health minister visited the European Commission recently, it was the – male – deputy Health minister, Dr Feroz, who attended, not the Health minister herself, the only senior minister who is a woman. 40% of all health facilities do not have one single woman at any level of their staff, yet it is women worldwide who are fundamentally responsible for all aspects of family health. The word Afghanistan translates correctly into the words 'the land of sorrow and suffering'. For women Afghanistan is becoming, yet again, the land of their deepest sorrow and suffering. Humanitarian aid undoubtedly helps, but just as obviously it is simply not enough. I warmly congratulate both ECHO and the entire Commission involved in Afghanistan, for their fantastic work. But if we want to bring Afghanistan into the modern world, the most basic of human rights, equal respect between the sexes, must become, both a hallmark of our aid and a continuing measurement of our success. It is not so today. If we look at what Mr Solana identified as the aims of European Union involvement in Afghanistan, women are not mentioned: women's rights are just not there. Yet if we mean business, this attitude must be tackled, and it is an attitude, a tribal culture in Baluchistan, which has spread around the region. Why be so squeamish about  tackling women's rights? Is it because Afghanistan is an Islamic society? I do not need to quote the Koran to you to remind you that men and women were equal in the Koran from the very start of Islam; it cannot be because of that. I urge you, alter the priorities of the Council of Ministers, place women's rights high on the agenda. If we fail on that, then we will have no success at all. . – Mr President, I wish to thank the Conference of Presidents for creating and sustaining this unique part-session. I should also like to thank our former colleague, Mr Haarder, and his team because they are creating an historic Danish Presidency. I pay particular tribute to the Commissioner himself and to his team. The Commissioner's powerful leadership has accepted no obstacle that would delay enlargement and he and his team have successfully tackled and overcome immense and daunting problems and have brought us to the happy position we enjoy today. I welcome most particularly in that context the Romanian parliamentary team. Romania, in common with other candidate countries in this two-part but single enlargement, has made substantial progress and her progress has been particularly marked since December 1999 when the new government took office, after the Helsinki Conference. If Romania follows faithfully the Commission's new and excellent roadmap and has the support of the Commission, the Council of Ministers and Parliament, Romania can most definitely reach her target date for EU entry of 1 January 2007 and reach that date not by right but by her own achievement. I therefore wish profoundly to retain that target date in Parliament's report. I am confident that by the end of this week Romania will become a member of Nato. By 1 January 2007, with hard work, consistency, application and our support, she could be here. I commend Romania's progress to this House. – Mr President, resolution 1441 is very clear. It declares in paragraph 1 that Iraq has been and remains in material breach of its obligations under the relevant resolutions including resolution 687 of 1991. Resolution 687 of 1991 details the United Nations' demands of international monitoring, inspection and verification of weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missiles. It imposes sanctions, except as regards medical and humanitarian supplies, to ensure compliance. It places a clear prohibition on the commission of, or support for, acts of terrorism. It demands the restoration of Kuwaiti prisoners of war and Kuwaiti property and it warns of grave consequences which would follow Iraq's continued use of weapons of mass destruction. Iraq is indeed guilty and in breach on all those counts. For example, it supports terrorists such as the MKO (Mujahedin-e Khalq Organisation), proscribed on the European Union list of terrorists. It trains, arms and sends out that terrorist group and has done so for a long time now. Possibly also, through war in the north of Iraq, we are discovering its links with the Al Qaida network of international terrorists. I turn to weapons of mass destruction. I have talked in earlier debates of the use of mustard gas in the marshes in 1996 and of the victims I saw. Mr Brok, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, mentioned our mission to Iran, during which we talked to a few of the tragic people who had suffered the consequences of that misuse of weapons of mass destruction, with Kuwaiti prisoners of war still being hidden and property still not returned. Despite these breaches, resolution 1441 gives Iraq one final chance, a slender window of opportunity that it seems to be refusing to open. Resolution 1441 calls us also to witness and to relieve the sufferings of the Iraqi people. The resolution points to the prolongation of the crisis of humanitarian dimensions as the consequence of Iraq's refusal to implement resolution 687 and others. What are the consequences? Millions of refugees. Iran has borne a major burden, Jordan has large numbers, Syria enormous numbers too and Turkey also, not to mention other countries in the region. We have a relatively small number in the European Union. Hundreds of thousands, yes, but not the four and a half million that are in the region. These refugees are alive; others have been tortured, killed or imprisoned and have no freedom of speech. Saddam is indeed dangerous to the region and beyond, and dangerous to his own people. If he retains his power, we cannot be sure in the future that he will not once more go back to spending three-quarters of his gross national product on weapons, 15, 16, 17 billion dollars' worth of new weapons in the region year on year. That is the threat he poses to the region, and he has instruments which will allow him to put those weapons of mass destruction beyond Iraq's national borders. Resolution 687 had an overall objective of restoring international peace and security in the region. I believe that the United Nations' will is now to secure that goal. Our unity as a European Union should be deployed in support of their efforts. – Mr President, I congratulate the Commission and the team led in the Commissioner's office by Mr Fotiadis and those on the ground for the amazing work they are carrying out. I attended the Tokyo Pledging Conference and was proud to see the way in which European Union leadership in nation rebuilding was exemplified by both the Commission and the presidency. I congratulate the Commissioner himself and the presidency at the time – the Spanish presidency – for the way in which they conducted the business of the European Union there. But the Commission's subsequent work has proved my view to be correct: amongst the international community blocs claiming to be able to rebuild nations, the European Union is standing alone. And we are working in a tough and dangerous situation. Afghanistan is a very difficult country to help. For example the main message coming from the Afghan Government at the moment is that international pledges made in Tokyo are not being fulfilled and the government therefore cannot conduct its business. Last Saturday I had the opportunity to speak in Tehran with the new Afghan Ambassador to the Islamic Republic of Iran. He made this very point. I pointed out to him that the one partner on which he could firmly rely was the European Union. I commend the priorities the Union has set itself, as the Commissioner has outlined today, because, as I said, it is not a simple matter. Water. One Member – Mr Morillon – has already mentioned the acute drought. The acute drought is so widespread in the south-west of Afghanistan – it feeds across from the plain in Iran. There are 26 major water projects under way in the Islamic Republic of Iran to try and provide the local population with water. Over the border in Afghanistan, I have seen no water projects at all on the ground. Yet this is the largest drought for at least 300 years. It has hit many hundreds of thousands of people. Of course in a drought the farmers cannot grow alternative crops. The south-west of Afghanistan is not particularly heavily mined. They can grow opium poppies in this drought. Unfortunately, poppies grow extremely well in drought. Until we put water projects in the south-west region, we cannot complain as much as we do that opium production is not being contained. Of course it is not being contained. The figures provided by the Afghan Government have been unintentionally misleading to the international community. Water ought to be one of the topmost priorities. On health care, the population is virtually at the lowest ebb. Life expectancy is 46 years – the lowest in the world apart from Somalia. All the health indicators show that health has been abominable for the last 23 years and there is a lack of education. May we insist that other international donors focus on small-scale health projects to implement the World Health Organisation master plan on health. Not large hospitals, for which there will not be enough staff or resources, but more mass immunisation, more primary health clinics, more mobile health clinics. Could we please press other donors to focus on those areas? Then, of course, women's rights. I must tell you that women's rights have gone downhill, not up. Only last week, for example, the government passed a law stating that women would not be allowed to perform music on the radio. So it is not easy. I congratulate the Commission and I urge it to persuade other donors to adopt the same approach as our team in Brussels and on the ground. We are doing wonderfully well; others, I fear, are not being nearly as successful. . – Mr President, I have an oral compromise amendment to recommend to the committee, which updates paragraph 14. Two days ago there was a new United Nations Security Council resolution on Iraq. My oral amendment would delete paragraph 14 and take account of Amendments Nos 12, which would fall, 13 and part of 15. I recommend that it becomes a new paragraph 6a, as the PSE Group requests: "Welcomes, as long as it does not lead to an increase in military expenditure, the adoption by the United Nations Security Council of a new resolution 1409 (2002), creating more streamlined procedures for goods to be purchased for Iraq, which removes most restrictions on non-military and non-dual use trade and investments, while maintaining the arms embargo. Passed in order to ameliorate the humanitarian crisis in basic needs. Urges the United Nations to tighten controls on Iraq's ability to import weapons and weapons-related goods and to remove all other related remaining sanctions;" Mr President, Romania's people welcome wholeheartedly the European Union's Helsinki decision to incorporate Romania in the first wave of the current enlargement countries. Indeed, 80% of Romania's people believe that Romania belongs in the European Union. Perhaps it is no coincidence that those same public polls show that the European Union Ambassador is the second most popular person in Romania today. Since last December, therefore, there have been many encouraging signs. Acute poverty has been a key problem in Romania since 1990 and under the present government, the economy is at last showing real signs of improvement. The substantial loans from the World Bank and the IMF and the European Union show that success. The current Prime Minister, Mugur Isarescu, is himself on secondment from the Central Bank and therefore has excellent relationships with the international financial institutions. The better economy should increase a still fragile public confidence in the democratic institutions and de-politicisation of the civil service must be a high priority. Romania enjoys a free press. This must be encouraged and supported. Tackling corruption at all levels will assist in building a free and open civil society. Romania nearly fails on the Copenhagen criteria with regard to children. Here we must remember that the collapse of the Soviet Union has left thousands of children in desperate straits throughout the Union; children whose families have given way unwillingly to pressures, children who have been institutionalised wrongly, children who are treated cruelly, children who die needlessly, children who are adopted by other countries illegally, children whose only future is to be exchanged for hard currency or household goods. Central and Eastern Europe and the West Balkans are a prime source for the international child slave trade. In Romania the government, with the active support of Commissioner Verheugen, the World Bank and the United Nations, have given us an opportunity to establish good doctrines and best practice in the region. The formation of a high level group is something that I commend to my colleagues. Romania has many strengths. It has a unique and flourishing culture. It has an established artistic and musical heritage. It has strength in adversity. Members will recall that our helping Kosovo was timely and was of great importance. This will be reflected in the coming challenge of the OSCE which Romania adopts in January 2001 and perhaps in 2002 when Romania's probable membership of NATO will be reviewed. We all applaud Romania for the Olympic gold, silver and bronze medals it has won in the last fortnight. We must look forward to Romania becoming a full and active member of the Union without undue delay. I therefore commend my report and its proposals to the House and urge Romania to make haste to implement the  and the Copenhagen criteria and become a member of the European Union. – It gives me very great pleasure to thank and support the Council for everything that it has said today on this complicated issue. I rise because, although the Council position has not altered, the Romanian Government has put in a great deal of work, and I want to commend to the Council the report that came out just a few days ago from the independent group for international adoption analysis, which the Prime Minister commissioned. The report has now been adopted and will be published and promoted once one or two details have been sorted out. This new report is very important, in particular for unblocking pipeline cases, which I know will give my good and eminent colleague, Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado, very great pleasure. But we need to remember that it is not just families in Spain and North America who are affected by the corruption and child-trafficking to which the Council has referred. There are many thousands of children in Romania who have families of their own and have become detached from them. So the whole system has to be refreshed, renewed and looked at, as the Council has said. It is a very important matter, particularly in regard to severely disabled children, and I feel confident the new report helps on priority as well. My question to the Council, however, is that I am very concerned at reports, that appear to be very well-founded that the US, stirred perhaps by the emotion that this issue creates, is linking the potential membership of Romania to NATO, which this Parliament 100% supports, with the lifting of the moratorium on inter-country adoption. Could the Council please state – if it is true – that this is a most improper way to behave? – Mr President, the symbol of the Red Cross/Red Crescent movement brings hope to battlefields worldwide. Perhaps I could be allowed a special reason for celebrating these conventions, as one of my family members founded the British Red Cross movement. Article 1(b) of the relevant Convention forbids the taking of hostages. Article 23 of the Universal Islamic Declaration of Human Rights says that no one shall be forced to leave the country of his residence or be arbitrarily deported therefrom. Millions of people are suffering worldwide. Speakers today, from Graham Watson onwards, have made those points earlier. But let us think just of a few people in order to bring home the horror and suffering. We recall that on 20 August 1990 Iraq invaded Kuwait in a unilateral act of aggression that was universally condemned. Nine years later, more than 600 prisoners of war are unreleased and unaccounted for by Iraq. Iraq is a formidable enemy. UNSCOM has destroyed 38 000 chemical weapons munitions, 690 tonnes of chemical weapons agents, 3 000 tonnes of precursor chemicals, 48 Scud missiles and a biological weapons factory designed to produce up to 50 000 litres of anthrax, botulism toxin and other agents. Her strength and power for evil purposes is matched only by her determination not to find the missing prisoners. After nine years she has only provided information sufficient to close three files. This afternoon, when we debate Iraq, do not forget the missing Kuwaiti prisoners of war. Do not lift economic sanctions while their fate remains uncertain. – Mr President, the Iraqi people are certainly going through the darkest night they can possibly have experienced. The appropriate health statistics are the ones published by the World Health Organisation. The countries’ statistical profiles for the World Health Organisation Eastern Mediterranean region, including Iraq, were recently published. They are the nationally approved figures officially released by WHO. These most sensitive health indicators show that Iraq is at the lowest possible level in the table after Afghanistan, Djibouti and Somalia, as the least developed country in the region. This is the country which, per capita, has the capacity to be the richest in the world. I can however prove that it is Saddam Hussein’s regime, the government of this rogue state, which is fully responsible for the health of those children. Next door in the Islamic Republic of Iran are 95 000 Iraqi refugees – proportionately a fraction of the funds that have gone into Iraq have been spent on these children and these mothers;  35 000 of them are under five years old; yet the health of those children consistently improved, and now matches the health of those of the host nation of Iran and the health of western nations almost completely. 92% of all the children born in those camps have an acceptable weight while that is not achievable in Iraq. The fault lies with the government of Iraq. – Madam President, Commissioner Patten correctly said that we have no quarrel with Islam. I say that we have a quarrel with those who abuse Islam and who turn the principles of Islam into weapons against the innocent. In the same way, we have no quarrel with the Afghan people. Our quarrel is with bin Laden who shelters in Afghanistan and with the Taliban, they seem to be almost one and the same, and we pity the situation of the Afghan people. They are already one of the poorest nations upon Earth. Two million Afghan refugees are sheltering in the Islamic Republic of Iran and they have been for some years now. It is sad to see how little international help has been given to those refugees or to their hosts, the Iranian government. These refugees fled acute starvation and utter brutality in Afghanistan to find a haven in Iran and there are huge numbers of new refugees now on the move. The psychological terror that our new alliance has properly caused against terrorism in the region is causing the new flight of so many new millions of refugees. We must ask ourselves, how we can save lives? We have always supported NGOs. We have perhaps given less interinstitutional support. I plead here to the Commission to look closely at how best to involve our work with that of the United Nations, particularly UNHCR and the World Health Organization, for only the UN, can command the volumes of support that are needed in such a situation, in terms of food, clothing, shelter and the provision of basic needs. I ask the Commission to assist the refugees who have already fled and are elsewhere. May I also include the 3.5 million Iraqi refugees in the region. We must do all we can to help. – Mr President, we had a welcome visit yesterday to this Parliament from a delegation from the CIS Parliamentary Assembly. This gave us a unique opportunity to discuss Russia’s war with Chechnya face-to-face with other Parliamentarians. These visitors appealed to us to understand that, in their words, Russia was fighting against terrorism and was not waging a real war, and that this fight against terrorism had been exacerbated by outside arms flows and training camps sponsored by predatory nations jealous of Russia’s power. We responded. Russia is a member of the Council of Europe, and even her need in terms of security to protect her citizens internally from outside assault could not absolve her from her responsibilities under international conventions. I put the point that the containment by Russia of arms flows from Russia would be a very welcome step forward in terms of shared efforts to combat terrorism. There are, however, two sides to this political tale of war and suffering, and I think we must seek more strongly to understand the causes of conflict between Russia and Chechnya, so that we can help to stem the flow of human blood more quickly another time. I suggest no sanctions, no economic sanctions against Russia should be considered at this time. We have a duty, now that the war is almost over, to have access to victims and to give aid for rehabilitation. – Mr President, let us remember that Egypt is one of the great ancient civilisations. It has always been a pillar of culture and progress since ancient days. Today, its recent former foreign minister is Secretary-General of the Gulf Cooperation Council. Egypt is  in perpetuity in the Arab League. Yet we have these most unfortunate men charged with an offence that we in the European Union cannot accept as a matter of anything other than rank discrimination. In the light of the European Mediterranean Partnership that we have, we speak as friends of Egypt, because indeed Egypt today is still one of the foremost defenders of democratic rights and guarantees of democracy and human freedoms in the entire Arab world. We respect its culture, its background, its history, its religion. But still, as friends, and, in most particular, because of our deep profound partnership with Egypt, we ask it to think again. Today, in supporting this important resolution, we call upon the Council and the Commission to speak for Parliament in asking the Egyptian Government to think again. . – Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of our chairman, Mr Brok, of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy. It is imperative that we think seriously about how to foster and strengthen the transatlantic relationship today. That is the thrust of our questions to the Council and the Commission: the development of the transatlantic partnership. It is our view that our shortcomings in common security and defence policy have been ruthlessly exposed by the Iraq conflict and that, in consequence, has badly damaged the transatlantic partnership. We believe that intergovernmental action still has the upper hand, and that is at the expense of the  in the transatlantic relationship. Joint structures which we could develop with institutions in Brussels, perhaps under the European Convention, will assist in greater coordination. But unless the Member States demonstrate a political will to pursue joint action, the development of the common defence and security policy in the context of the transatlantic alliance will not have the force that it both demands and deserves. As President Bush said earlier this week in Poland, the common values that underpin that transatlantic relationship are the common foreign policy element that can bring the European Union together with the USA. However, we cannot afford to behave in an erratic, inconsequential and fragmented manner. The USA is such a strong partner that if the European Union cannot speak with one voice – if not a common voice, perhaps a single voice, but at least a coordinated voice – then we will continue to fall behind in the transatlantic partnership. The European Union in this context is facing its most serious crisis of the last decade. The question today, which we look to the Commissioner and to the Council of Ministers to answer, is whether or not we can return to a real partnership with the USA. Can we give that partnership the new dynamism that the Committee on Foreign Affairs believes it demands and deserves, and can we be a full partner of the USA, or must we always feel that we are falling behind? We see that there is potential for a dramatic renewal of the transatlantic alliance, and here the partnership between the EU and the USA plays the most fundamental role. Of course, we see a stronger Europe as a condition for the very survival of Nato. It is not just the European Union that has been damaged by the conflict in Iraq and by the outfall of that conflict; Nato and the United Nations have also been seriously damaged. Most Member States of the European Union are an integral part of Nato, and even those who are not still believe that Nato is the fundamental guarantee for European Atlantic stability. We, therefore, seek reassurance this afternoon that the Council of Ministers and the Commission share our view on this and that they too feel that a stronger Europe will mean a stronger Nato. Can we from the European Union – those of us who are members and non-members – strengthen the Nato-Euro-Atlantic Alliance, since it is still a fundamental guarantee for European stability? We therefore seek to discuss what purpose the Atlantic Alliance now serves, how the Atlantic Alliance should be structured and what means should be placed at its disposal. Indeed, Nato itself needs reform, in particular with regard to military restructuring. We have had many discussions lately in the context of the common security and defence policy, including with the Commissioner himself last night in the Western European Union-European Parliament joint dialogue on military restructuring, focusing in particular on full cooperation between EU Member States and our heavy investments in the modern technologies. But how can we achieve that most effectively within the Nato context, and perhaps in a less costly way? Institutional reform of Nato is also something we see as imperative. Thus, we seek a coherent performance for the European Union both at home and abroad, based on consistent strategic thought and action. We look forward to a full debate this afternoon to enable us to kick-start, with the real dimension it deserves, a proper transatlantic relationship in the post-Iraq context. . – Mr President, Romania has made exceptional progress in recent months. The magnificent efforts by the Prime Minister and his team have created laudable results. NATO membership in Prague this autumn is now a certainty and the impact of that body of work on European Union enlargement will be wholly beneficial. Romania now stands at the crossroads. It is a European nation, yet European standards and our fundamental values are still not fully adhered to by all levels of society. The government's strong fight against corruption is hampered by lack of financial, human and material resources, with the inevitable knock-on effect of a low absorption rate of EU funds. Thus new methods are needed to boost Romania's progress in the coming months after the big bang. We must take new initiatives. It is imperative that the newly emerging political map of Europe, with its plague of unhealthy nationalism, does not threaten Romania's entry into the European Union. If the enlargement window of opportunity starts to close, I urge the Union to lead Romania more swiftly through the narrowing gap of full EU membership so that she is not left languishing on the margins. Romania should be guaranteed early membership even if some of the acquis communautaire is not wholly complete. Surely we can find an entry date with the aim, say, of completing negotiations by the end of 2006. Surely that is within our grasp. Under Ceaucescu, many hundreds of thousands of Romanians showed incredible courage based on their deepest attachment to our core values of truth, freedom and respect for the human dignity of every individual. I recall that in Bucharest in 1990 the main streets were dark, unlit and the only vehicles were driven by the secret police. Last week those same streets were alive and buoyant with a massive international trade with traffic jams, shops and offices, and the bustle of normal life. Romania's bloodless revolution has brought her through into the free world. She still has some way to travel to be with us here today but exceptional efforts surely deserve exceptional responses. I congratulate the Commission, with Romania's people, the primary architects of the country's success, for bringing her to that level of integration today. I look for new thinking and creative achievements in the months ahead to give Romania the tools she needs to finish the job. Mr President, at the Conference of Presidents Mr Antonione correctly stated that the downward spiral of violence must be stopped. The way forward is for both sides to get together around a table. What could they bring that might break the deadlock? Perhaps Palestine could re-examine the status of her intifada. It is an armed intifada. She should ask herself whether an intifada has to be armed to qualify as a genuine intifada. The answer to that is 'no'. Most intifadas are popular and peaceful intifadas. Perhaps she could withdraw from violence by making her intifada a peaceful one. What about Israel? Israel has a responsibility to bring Palestine to independent statehood. Palestine cannot be an independent state if it is not financially viable. Israel could think hard and re-examine her approach towards helping Palestine to trade freely, without adding on costs and without using the wall to further depress agricultural or factory production. There is much to be done if both sides can get together. Looking at just those two simple items, success could still be within their grasp. – Mr President, I wish to address my remarks to Mrs Thyssen's report, which I welcome, and I congratulate her on such a balanced piece of work. We know well the dilemma in dealing with a report that has to straddle the interests of business and consumers. We have before us very good innovative ideas from the Commission – an overarching policy, a framework directive – something we need if we are really to make the internal market work and to make a success of eEurope. However, to achieve all of that we have to build confidence in our consumers. The one area that concerns me is in paragraph 17 of the report, which I endorse completely. It concerns this linkage between codes of conduct, legal certainty and enforcement and how we get those three to  work together to protect consumers. This year I shall be drafting a report on the monitoring of Community law and therefore feel very passionately that in moving to codes of conduct we have to ensure we still have legal certainty and enforceability or we fragment the very gains we have made in the internal market. I shall try to illustrate that with an example. Yesterday I received a letter from a constituent who had bought a property in another Member State. Something had gone wrong with the purchase: money had been wrongly deducted from money he had handed over. He applied to the appropriate overarching professional body. He wrote in his own language, English. He received a reply in their language that stated that they were unable to deal with his complaint unless he wrote to them in their language. If we really want to do business across Europe together we have to be fair and reasonable with one another. Codes of conduct have to be properly enforced. – Mr President, I want to offer an explanation of vote on behalf of the ELDR Group for our final vote on Mr Rothley's report on the Members' Statute on which we mainly abstained. We have the greatest respect for President Cox, and this group, under his leadership, and subsequently, has  fought for reform. We have been able to compromise on some matters but there are others of principle on which we will not compromise. We, therefore, abstained on the following issues: we wanted reform now, not reform later at an uncertain date; we wanted equality for our colleagues from the acceding states. If we want to be treated equally here ourselves, why should we offer them a worse deal? We wanted the option of national tax so we could be treated with equality with the citizens we represent; we wanted a clear message that expenses should be transparent. Those items did not find favour with the majority in this House. Whilst Parliament has given its decision, it pains me as a parliamentarian to say that I hope the Council makes a better fist of it than we have. – Two years ago I spoke in the debate on the annual legislative programme on behalf of the Liberal Group, and I was very critical of the old process which I described as the swapping of shopping lists between Parliament and Commission. Now we have a proper process, a proper interinstitutional dialogue. We have in front of us now a broad strategy tailored to the overriding political goal of enlargement and few of us would disagree with the broad picture and, indeed, the early attempt to attach budgetary implications. Now the real process will start with detailed consideration in Parliament's committees and this is what is paramount. At last there is meaningful involvement of Parliament and I have no doubt the committees will start to flesh out a final legislative programme. This is a welcome change in our working methods and should allow us to plan and prepare our legislative work much better. Added to these developments, the Legal Affairs Committee had an historic joint meeting with national parliamentarians, this morning, to discuss the EU legislative process and how Community law is implemented. There can be no doubt that colleagues in national parliaments need fair warning of what we will be dealing with and when. This will allow them to input to us or to hold their ministers in the Council to account in a meaningful way. It was clear from our discussion that those Member States who allow their national parliamentarians early involvement in the process have far less difficulty implementing Community legislation. Their citizens are more comfortable with the process and the final result has increased legitimacy. That is the real connection we are all striving to obtain with our citizens so there are thankfully new winds blowing through our legislative process. The convention may unleash a few more but I am glad to see that those wretched shopping lists have gone at the first blast. – I would like to start also by congratulating the rapporteur on this report. A motor vehicle accident in any circumstances can be traumatic, all the more so if it involves personal injuries. If we add to that an international dimension where the victims find themselves in a foreign country, the problems may be multiplied: differences in language, procedure, inability to identify or trace the third party, let alone deal with insurers. The mere identification of the third parties is often lengthy and time-consuming. Once the insurers are in touch, matters are often settled by negotiation. This directive would be a welcome step in ensuring that the respective foreign insurers get in contact quickly and the proposals for settlement are promptly forthcoming. So far, so good. But our rapporteur wants to go one small step further and I feel, as others have already said, that we should support him. This relates to accidents in third countries. Let me spend a moment to share with you a case I had in private practice as a lawyer before I was elected to this Parliament. It concerned a German national who had an accident in Turkey, caused by a UK national. That claim was being negotiated by insurers in two Member States, and if it had been litigated, it would have been litigated in the UK, probably according to UK law. So tell me where the problem is. This is what happens in practice. There really is not a difficulty with including the small further step which the rapporteur is asking for. The difficulties that have been thrown up can be overcome if there is a will to do so. Lastly, I would just like to say one small thing on the question of damages. I hope that we will come back to this in the future. The measures or the methods of calculating damages across the European Union differ vastly. We would do our citizens a great service if we could move towards harmonising this area as well. . –Mr President, on behalf of the Legal Affairs Committee I would like to address the same report as Mr Ford has addressed. On the face of it this proposal would seem to be about taxation of non-EU businesses, but, of course, what it should be about is how we encourage and nurture Europe's e-economy, which is a very fragile flower. In this sense, I welcome the Commission's brave attempt to find a way to close the competitive gap that clearly exists between EU and non-EU e-business. But what we have to ask, and what our committee asked, was: is this the right way to do it? Our opinion was very clearly that it is not. I was always told that one of the first rules or principles of a legislator should be: do not make law you cannot enforce. This was our committee's major concern. It may not be enough to rely on the good will of enterprises outside our reach. The good guys will comply, the bad ones will still be bad, and consumers may well use them in their search for a good deal. What else could we be doing here? There is much talk about setting up business models for e-commerce regulation, but that is a wider issue and should be dealt with in a much more transparent way. There are underlying assumptions in this proposal about the place of taxation which could store up problems for the future in an international context. We may have something to learn from America, where they have, of course, imposed a moratorium on such e-tax. In short, the aim of this proposal is correct but the method is misconceived and if we really want to encourage Europe's e-economy, a right signal would be zero rate VAT for our own e-business rather than trying to impose our problems on others. – Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the draftsman for the consensus that they have drawn together. When this report first appeared it seemed to cover a small technical matter, but this is in fact a small technical matter with the ability to make a huge difference. It is of great importance, as has already been said, to the financial services action plan and to the better functioning of the internal market. As Lord Inglewood has already said, it is a proposal that, politically speaking, has come at the right moment. The collapse of a corporate giant like Enron and the reverberations of such a collapse for employees, for small investors, for pensioners, convince us that, if there is a way of helping prevent such misery for some of our citizens, then we should of course pursue it. These international accounting standards seem to hold out such a promise, both within and beyond the European Union. I hope that is so. I hope also, as other speakers have said, that the system involving a regulatory committee – a technical committee set up within our institutions – will provide the openness and, most importantly, the democratic accountability that this Parliament seeks. Our society, our citizens, have a huge stake in the success and health of our large corporations. It is clearly our duty to ensure that the standards by which they are governed or regulated attain the best levels of corporate governance. This report is an important step in achieving that and I can assure the rapporteur that he will have the full support of the ELDR Group in this House. – Mr President, when we were discussing the compromise version of this text, all of the groups felt that the step change in the Northern dimension that will take place on enlargement will entail alterations to regional policy. Therefore we would like to insert an overarching paragraph at the beginning of point 3, which reads as follows: 'adapting the general approach to the changing situation where partner countries become Members in the EU, noting the specific needs this creates for regional development and cross–border cooperation.' – Mr President, I would like to welcome what is a very well considered report, which invites us to stand back and take stock before embarking on further legislation in this field – a refreshing welcome from the tendency of this House sometimes to rush, or to be pushed to rush, at complex legislation. I would particularly like to focus my comments on the issues raised by this report on the further harmonisation of private law. In our enthusiasm we sometimes forget what a sensitive subject the harmonisation of private law is; it touches the national legal traditions in our Member States, legal traditions born of our differing histories and cultures of separate nations and jurisdictions. Professor MacCormick will be acutely aware of this in Scotland, with its own legal heritage. I am not in any way opposed to further harmonisation, it can be helpful to the good functioning of the internal market, but imposed legislative harmonisation needs to be carefully and openly considered, or we may find we have left our citizens behind in this project. The traditional push towards harmonisation has been the internal market to which we can now add the aspirations of Tampere for a single area of European justice. But harmonisation must respect subsidiarity – we have no need to rush towards uniformity of civil law in this area of product liability. We should be aware that uniformity can stifle innovation and prevent adaptation to local or national circumstances and problems. It is a truism that European law has been able to benefit from the ability to draw on rich comparative material of varying legal traditions in our different Member States. It would be dangerous to stifle this by uniformity. Let me suggest that the aspirations of Tampere can be better met in the public law area of the intended Charter of Fundamental Rights than by further imposed legislation which harmonises our private law traditions. Research seems to show that our traditions are tending to converge slowly. Let us perhaps be prepared to assist and guide that convergence and respect the conditionality of the further harmonisation which is integral to Professor MacCormick’s proposals. – Mr President, along with many British Members of this House, I have received a large number of personal letters from constituents like the petitioners in this case. I welcome Mr Perry's dogged work on behalf of those petitioners, and confirm that my Group will support the report. However, there is a wider issue at play here, which affects the good functioning of Community law. I was a rapporteur for the last two years on the reports on the implementation and monitoring of Community law. As a Parliament we then called on the Commission to improve its infringement procedures and its dealings with complainants, calling in particular for correspondence passing between the Commission and the Member States to be made available. This is the area that any committee of inquiry should, and can, examine: the Commission's carrying out of its supervisory duty in implementing Community law. This need have nothing whatever to do with the current English High Court proceedings. It is about getting an answer for our citizens. Any committee of inquiry must get to grips with this central question about the efficiency of infringement proceedings. It must be said that this history goes back a long way to 1997. With the greatest respect to the Commissioner – and I have the utmost respect for his work – to say that everything is in order now is not entirely satisfactory. If the Commission cannot carry out its role as Guardian of the Treaties, this is really  serious and the whole legal framework of the Union can accordingly be brought into disrepute and called into question. We have to provide answers for our citizens. – Mr President, I hope we do not have to come here again to talk about our employment conditions. When I looked at the UK press over the weekend I could not recognise myself or indeed any of my colleagues in the lurid descriptions of our supposed lifestyles and endless perks. Many journalists have telephoned me with the opening line 'Oh, so you are about to vote yourself a 25% pay rise.' When I explain the whys and wherefores, they suddenly lose interest, it is not an interesting story any more. Surely this is the point. Our conditions of employment and our expenses should not be the story, they should be transparent, a matter of public record: proper recompense for a job well done and reimbursement for monies paid out in doing that. Colleagues, I believe this is our last chance to reach the stage where we are no longer the story, but our work is. We have a package before us that in most ways represents a compromise for all of us. It is a package that should get through the Council if we are reasonable regarding items of primary law, but the Council too must compromise over tax. Some Members of this House may be uncomfortable about the level of salary: for some it is too much, for some too little, but finally we seem to have a figure that we can all just about live with. Then the expenses: again at last we seem, thanks to your work, Mr President, to have a proposed system that is much more transparent than hitherto. For some it may not go far enough, but it is a vast improvement. There will have to be some compromise and understanding on all sides. What we will have finally established, the big prize, is a single statute for MEPs. This is our last chance. It was hard enough to get here, and the circumstances will not arise again. We have a chance for interest in this House to focus on our work and not our pockets. I hope sufficient numbers of us will have the courage to bend a little and vote for this package and the amendments by the ELDR and other groups. Quite frankly, colleagues, although I pay absolute tribute to the work of our rapporteur, I do not want to listen to him in committee meetings on this subject for another five years. His very considerable talents and our time could be much better employed on other legislative work which directly benefits all Europe's citizens. – Mr President, imagine, colleagues, that you are an intelligent and sensible person, you are on holiday in another EU country with your elderly and frail mother, you both end up being trapped for over half a day in an airless room by total strangers, offered little or no refreshment and, because there is a large gentleman blocking the door you feel your exit is cut off, so you end up signing a contract and paying a deposit for a timeshare product that you do not want. You return home to find that you have waved goodbye to the deposit of several thousand pounds and the company you dealt with is a worthless shell, constituted in some offshore haven. You have no chance of redress. Yes, this is a true story. How many of us have heard hapless tales like this from our constituents, despite the existence of a timeshare directive? This report is timely. Its contents need to be acted on now, not delayed for further studies and reports. But let me sound a note of caution. Whilst it will have the support of the Liberal Group, I am not totally convinced that this raft of rather complex and different legislative and non-legislative initiatives will answer the problem. The simple problem, to my mind, is this: these timeshare scams are one of the most appalling signals that we do not have, that we have not created a single European area of justice. Cross-border access to justice within the internal market is still fraught with many barriers for our citizens. Few, if any, of these scams are perpetrated against citizens in their own Member States. These rogues are only too easily able to profit from the lack of a single European civil area of justice. If they knew they would be pursued in their own countries they would think twice. I commend paragraph 15 of the report as a good starting point for bringing these contracts within the definition of consumer contracts. It is this sort of horizontal approach that will eventually provide the answer. If we have proper cross-border access to justice then the timeshare scam bandits will think twice before they prey on our holidaying constituents. . – Mr President, I speak on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market specifically on the European judicial network proposal. Today in this House we held the annual debate on the European area of freedom, security and justice. Oddly, this theme of our citizens' access to justice in civil and commercial matters was not mentioned. This is very strange in an internal market where we actively encourage our citizens and enterprises to travel and conduct their commerce across borders. There is therefore a heavy responsibility on us to provide access to justice when things go wrong. This proposal states that its aim is to create a European judicial area which will bring tangible benefits to every citizen. I hope it will not disappoint. It is a proposal on two levels. First, a network of judicial authorities and personnel to ease cross-border procedures in civil and commercial matters. But it is the second level that interests me: to give information to our citizens on how to pursue cross-border litigation. This is difficult and not to be contemplated without competent and specialised legal advice. Our citizens are increasingly finding themselves involved in complex cross-border problems: road traffic accidents, buying property or a timeshare, actual problems that face our citizens. Whilst we move towards extrajudicial remedies, we must also ensure that judicial remedies are accessible. That is why my Group will support the amendment that was supported by the Legal Affairs Committee to secure a pilot programme of access to specialised legal advice. This should be central to this network – a network of judicial personnel is one thing, but a network that really provides cross-border access to justice would be the best way to recognise progress towards a real area of justice in Europe for our citizens, and this on the day of the annual debate on that subject. . – I should like to congratulate the rapporteur. We are dealing here with a long-overdue overhaul of a number of directives relating to rights of residents of the non-economically active. My starting-point, as was the rapporteur's, is that we should give European Union citizenship real meaning. The Treaty statement that every citizen should have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of Member States and the reality are still far apart. I draw on the experience of a number of language students from other Member States in my own constituency. They received a standard letter from our local social security office asking them to attend for a two-hour interview and to bring with them as many items as possible on a non-exhaustive list of about twenty documents such as a passport, bank statements, or household bills to "establish their identity". When I enquired further about this I was told that it was not an EU matter, because the same letter would be sent to UK residents. In what circumstances I cannot imagine. And, the two hour time-scale, even more ludicrously, was supposed to save them from a car parking fine in the local car-park! I would not want to see any citizens treated in the same way as these students. The history of the directives that deal with the rights of residence of the non-economically active is an unhappy one: non-implementation, infringement proceedings, a patchwork of different and burdensome requirements. You can move a sack of potatoes around Europe more easily than a citizen can move. If we are to appeal to our citizens and the basic right of free movement is to be real, then simple, fast codification of this area of Community law is long overdue. Then, and only then, will the Treaty statement on European Union citizenship become a reality instead of mere words. . – Mr President, both these reports before us today recognise the increasing mobility of persons and the rise in contractual and commercial transactions across our Union. As the internal market develops, our citizens really need a legal framework that guarantees them access to justice wherever they are and whatever their problems. I will confine my remarks mainly to the report on the service of documents. I concur with Mr Lechner that the rules that formerly governed this are some 25 years old; they are complicated and out of date. With the increase in commercial transactions across the internal market, we need new, simple and certain rules. When our citizens or our businesses have to resort to the courts, they need to get past that first step, which is the service of documents, possibly in another jurisdiction, before initiating proceedings. Here we need a simple procedure. As a lawyer in private practice in the UK, I myself, have often wrestled with a pile of books to find the right rules and the right way to go forward for my clients in these circumstances. The proposals that we have before us take matters forward but perhaps they do not go far enough. My group will re-table certain amendments that were put to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market to try to take matters forward even further, to make the systems that we are going to put in place more readily available and open to practitioners. We need to take this area of law outside the remit of a few specialists who may be able to charge a lot for it. We want to give our citizens across the Union real access to justice so that when they have to resort to the courts they can get things up and running quickly and without difficulties. Mr President, it seems to me that this joint debate tonight is perhaps a fitting finale to the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market in this mandate. At the beginning of the mandate we also thought that with the advent of the euro and e-commerce these would deliver a double boost to Europe's economy and the internal market. Sadly the realities have perhaps been more disappointing, particularly with regard to the participation of consumers in cross-border transactions. There was an interesting report from the European Consumer Centres who are very much at the sharp end. This report was delivered on European Consumer Day this year. Of 114 cross-border transactions only 75 actually resulted in a delivery. There were problems with payment and problems with refunds. This is hardly the safe, well-functioning market that we had in mind to create, nor have we got the level of confidence that we really need. It seems that in various complimentary ways these three measures will help to improve matters. The unfair commercial practices legislation should create that high level of consumer protection across the board. With the measures it contains by way of codes to help with alternative dispute resolution, combined with proper enforcement through the enforcement directive, perhaps we will get the access to justice across the market that there ought to be for consumers. Lastly, with regard to consumer credit, there should be a provision to make sure that consumers are backed up by the credit provider: this provision exists in my own country and others. This should be extended across Europe; one of our amendments to this effect was adopted in committee. It is aspirational for the future to deliver the consumer confidence that we really need to make the market work. – Mr President, I rather suspect that voters outside this House would have some difficulty understanding what is going on here this afternoon and indeed some of us may. I wonder what the public would make of it. Surely, the top and bottom of all this is that the majority of this House wants a sensible, standard remuneration package, salary, pension, reimbursement of expenses where practical on the basis of receipts and vouchers – the same sort of system that most of our voters are subject to in their workplaces. Of course, some will say we do not do an ordinary job of work. We are special. Yes, indeed we are special, we are public servants. I have sat in this House now for three years through innumerable discussions on this issue and we seem to move no further forward. What do we have on the table today? We have an exercise in subterfuge bogged down in a quagmire of procedure, I would hasten to suggest. On the one hand, we are talking about a report – a report that was not a report, merely an advice – voted by one committee. On the other hand, we are talking about some feedback from yourself, Mr President, for which we are very grateful. But some people here do not even want to mention that. Confused? I certainly am. Members have nothing of substance or detail before of them, nothing that they have the right to amend or that they all have the possibility to properly vote on. So, what are we discussing here? Some of us had hoped that we were at the very least talking about a process that would finally lead to a proper report setting out the detail of a proposed statute that would be clear, transparent and that every Member would have the right to amend and vote on and stand accountable to his or her voters and finally, once and for all, to draw a line under the criticism that we are so easily subject to. Instead, we are bogged down in this interminable roundabout of discussion on procedure. But, help is at hand! Let us be clear, there is a very practical paragraph in the joint motion from three parties that would allow a practical process to take off. The very paragraph, of course, that is opposed by majorities within the big groups in this House. That paragraph is tabled individually as an amendment. So, be on notice: if you block that amendment, you block progress, you block this House from getting an open procedure that will lead to a statute and you stop this Parliament becoming worthy of the name of parliament and you will leave our citizens even more bemused and sceptical. I would ask you, Mr President, also to check the procedure under which this question has been brought because I really wonder if it is acceptable procedure within our rules. I would not wish people to become any more confused than we already are. – Mr President, I was going to say on behalf of my group that we are pleased to see that a Green Paper is forthcoming, but perhaps I am in the minority in saying that I am pleased to see that a Green Paper is forthcoming in the sense that something is actually happening. The promise of future consultation and feasibility studies is to be welcomed, but this should not be an excuse for doing nothing. In that sense I agree with my colleagues that something has to happen sooner rather than later. Process can be important, and we must get that right. I would like to make two points on behalf of my group, the first relating to competition. Competition is excellent – we agree with the internal market – in that it is a way of raising standards generally and can also be a way of raising standards in the services concerned, but not for its own sake. Perhaps it would be interesting to look at a country outside the EU – Switzerland – in terms of energy policy. Recently the Swiss had a referendum to ascertain whether they should liberalise their energy provision, presently provided by their local cantons. Swiss citizens voted against this because they were not satisfied that choice in that sense would raise standards – it might just prove confusing. That question was put to the citizens of Switzerland. We, on the other hand, are waiting for a framework to establish how we should introduce such choices across Europe. The second issue of particular importance to my group is universal services provision. This guarantees social cohesion across Europe. Taking my own constituency, for instance, and the current issue of broadband, letters are flooding into my office from constituents in rural areas who complain that broadband is available in certain cities, but not for them. Such matters have to be resolved so that we can provide the same level of service to all our citizens and therefore guarantee the social cohesion which is so important to Europe. It is ridiculous that the Convention and its working groups are currently discussing these issues. These matters call for coordination as we move forward with the development of Europe. So it is good that something is actually happening, it is good that there has been a statement, but let us get on with it. . – Mr President, I speak first on behalf of the committee and will speak later on behalf of my group. In finally presenting this report to plenary on behalf of the Legal Affairs Committee, there are many people I should and will thank, but there is one whose inspiration I would especially like to mention because I hope it will set the scene for our debate tonight. As a young lawyer in London in the early 1980s, I was privileged to work with a then elderly German lady, who was one of those remarkable German-Jewish immigrés who came to London in the early war years and entered the English legal profession. This amazing lady not only qualified as an English solicitor, having previously qualified in Germany, but, as a true European of her own generation, she also obtained a doctorate from the Sorbonne the title of which was the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments. She inspired me with an interest in this area of law and as she gradually retired and handed over her practice, I became more and more familiar with the workings of the Brussels Convention as it came into force in the UK. I hope she would approve of where we have got to today, and how the European Union is now able to allow lawyers to move and practise in other Member States by choice rather than force of circumstance and that by this regulation our committee will further assist a step forward in giving greater access to justice to our citizens across Europe. I want to use this occasion to say something about the importance of what we are doing here. The original EC Convention on Jurisdiction and Judgments of 1968 was an important landmark in this field of international private law, marking a departure from a previous patchwork of mainly bilateral treaties between various countries. For the first time, by way of an intergovernmental convention, the EC gave itself a special, unique and comprehensive regime of recognition and enforcement. We are now participating in the next important landmark in that process – seeing what was a convention become a Community act, a regulation, in one fell swoop bringing a previous area of private international law into Community law and more importantly into the internal market. How fitting that it should be our committee, with its new competence in this legislature bridging the themes of legal affairs in the internal market, that should have had to deal with this new Brussels regulation. The committee has been at pains throughout this process to point out and highlight the importance of the internal market dimension of this proposal which gives us a chance to ensure even more strongly than before that our businesses and citizens can have confidence that contracts and obligations they enter into across the Union will be upheld by a common framework of procedural law on jurisdiction and enforcement. We are making progress towards a system of civil law and justice that will give ease and certainty of access across Member State boundaries, at last beginning to make a reality of the area of freedom and justice proposed at Tampere. The issue that has, of course, taken most of the committee’s time and attention has been the fact that this proposal for a regulation has coincided with the growth of e-commerce which in itself offers enormous opportunities to business and consumers within the internal market. The committee has, as the Commission will be well aware, grappled long and hard with the issues raised in Articles 15 and 17 of the proposed regulation. That is to say where there is a dispute between a business and a consumer, whose court should the parties have recourse to. These two articles, in whatever combination, have to be read together. The Commission proposal in line with previous consumer protection legislation took the view in dealing with Article 15 that all such disputes should go to the consumer’s court whilst willing to defer to a general proposition that contracts concluded at a distance should fall under this category. The committee has been searching for a way of protecting Europe’s growing e-commerce sector and especially small businesses from exposure to 15 different and diverse legal jurisdictions. The committee has therefore opted by a small majority in favour of the option of Article 17a which modifies the general principle in Article 15. This modification allows parties in a B to C contract to contract in favour of the seller’s jurisdiction. This was felt to uphold the freedom of contract of the parties but addition there is another element to which I will now turn. I believe the committee’s most fundamental contribution to this debate will be the introduction of the reference of such B to C disputes to ADR or EDR. This has been generally agreed to be the best way to neutralise the difficult discussion about whose jurisdiction can apply. There can be no doubt that the Brussels Convention made enormous strides in simplifying the jurisdiction rules applicable to cross-border disputes but they are still a lawyer’s dream and a litigant’s nightmare. They have not created real ease of access to justice. The opening up of a simple effective system of cross-border disputes is the committee’s goal in introducing the concept of ADR and we welcome the way in which this has already been picked up and worked on by the Commission. There was also agreement in committee that in this evolving area we remain deeply concerned as to the impact of legislation on Europe’s e-business. Therefore, in line with the E-commerce Directive, we have asked for a two-year review. I have covered the main aspects. I wish to conclude with a note of thanks to my colleague on the committee, especially to our chairman who I know feels as passionately as I do about this area of law, whatever our differences, but my biggest set of thanks must go to the committee secretariat and to Mr Robert Bray for all his help and advice throughout this process. – Mr President, this has undoubtedly been a good debate between the institutions and 2003 will be an important year against the backdrop of enlargement. We must ensure the good functioning of the Union for our citizens present and future. That applies very much to the process of how we legislate, how we implement legislation and how we enforce legislation. The debate has been very wide-ranging debate as regards how we legislate in this process. However, I could not help thinking while listening to the many detailed questions that we have heard that perhaps more of what I and my colleagues have been dealing with could have been dealt with at an earlier stage in the Committees, to give us a more strategic debate here today. On behalf of my group, I welcome the emphasis on impact assessments and the emphasis on involvement of our citizens and transparency. That has to be the right way forward. I would raise some concerns about the Commission's powers of enforcement in terms of infringement proceedings as we move towards enlargement. We must make sure that sufficient resources and measures are available in this respect. The same goes for the Court. The Court has to be fully resourced in order to carry out its tasks in the difficult times that lie ahead. We have had a good debate, a good exchange, but I still am left wondering whether it has truly been the strategic debate that should have engaged all of this House and our citizens outside. We have done well but we could still do a lot better. Mr President, you will perhaps be aware of the serious allegation on the front page of today's  newspaper that the British Government tried to muzzle its own top scientific adviser when he warned that global warming was a more serious threat than international terrorism. This follows from the US Administration's failure earlier this year to continue policy drafting on the back of the Arctic Council's Arctic Climate Impact Assessment. This is a huge scientific report and the US response is entirely untenable. Last Friday I attended, on behalf of this Parliament, a meeting of Arctic parliamentarians. We listened in shock to the various scientific presentations and the US reaction. Can we please try to ensure that both Commission and Council take seriously their various involvements at all levels with the Arctic Council and support open dialogue and action on this important global issue. It must not be hushed up, covered up, slowed down to please the US or anyone. If self-interest serves, then perhaps we might note that the latest scientific evidence forecasts that Europe will get colder. . The Liberal Democrat delegation did not vote with the rest of the ELDR Group on the Schmidt report. We voted against Amendments Nos 1 to 13 and the proposal, as we wished the proposal in its current form to be withdrawn. Our reason for doing so is that we believe VAT on postal services, especially in respect of securing a universal service for packages below two kilogrammes, is a matter best left to national governments under the principle of subsidiarity. However, we remain open to considering future proposals aimed at ensuring greater competition. – Mr President, this question highlights the tension between business and consumer interests in the context of the single market – a tension, I have to say, that I have become all too familiar with as rapporteur on the Brussels Convention. The idea of coordination has been mentioned. I want to draw attention to an approach, or perhaps a buzz phrase, if you like, that is much used in the UK at the moment in relation to government. We talk about joined-up thinking or joined-up administration. In other words, bridging gaps between departments. This is also a sign of maturity, graduating, as we do at school, from writing in single letters to joined up writing. The debate on jurisdiction and e-commerce has highlighted this conflict between consumers and web traders. Can a consumer bring an action in his own court if he is entitled to do so? Will this be the death blow to e-commerce? I propose a package of measures central to which is the theme of access to justice, much trumpeted at Tampere. Now if the single market is to function properly – to be fully and confidently exploited both by small businesses and consumers – there must be access to justice in civil matters. There must be small claims procedures and alternative dispute resolution. This is absolutely integral to the single market. But, of course, our Commissioner will say that this is perhaps more the preserve of his colleague, Mr Vitorino, and perhaps also Mr Byrne. This has been my frustration. There are speeches and statements by Mr Byrne and Mr Vitorino in favour of setting up systems to deal with European small claims. We have to bring these statements together. The Commission has to start thinking in a joined-up way – as a joined-up administration. We have a once in a generation opportunity to facilitate the growth of e-commerce. On the secondary theme, we tend to be drawn towards harmonisation as a means of resolving some of these problems – of resolving the tensions we face. But it is often that process of harmonisation, which can depend too much on legislation, that can be rigid and inflexible and then itself turn into a barrier against the single market. There are such allegations concerning the data protection directive, which is an important piece of consumer protection legislation, but in some Member States it seems to have been over-implemented, resulting in a potential barrier within the single market. E-commerce is very much a global market. The solutions we adopt have to allow our citizens and businesses to participate in this wider market. In America, which need not necessarily to be our role model – they have adopted a combination of self-regulation and soft law backed by legislation. We should be prepared to look at this sort of mixture of solutions. One has already been mentioned. One of the possible solutions may lie in the hands of the credit card industry. But to take advantage of these, we must act and the Commission must act together in a joined-up manner. Mr President, I am running short of inspiration about what to say on the subject of the Members' Statute. We have said it all before. We say every time 'this is the last chance' and surely this must be it. Perhaps I should begin where I left off in this Chamber in June when I offered an explanation of vote on behalf of the ELDR Group's abstention and my own national delegation's vote against the then resolution. We said we could not give our support then, due to the inclusion of primary law and the lack of the possibility of national tax. I could say on behalf of my Group that 'we told you so' as now, by and large, the majority of this House seems to have arrived at the same position – so we make progress. But before I sat down last time I also said I hoped that the Council would make a better job of this than we did. Well now we are back, offering the Council a clear and acceptable package. Sadly, we all know that the Council did not have a very good weekend. But here is a chance for it to deliver a success story for Europe before the end of this mandate. It may seem a very small success, but its implications for the good name of European democracy are huge. Next summer when we face Europe's citizens in elections we could have a Parliament with its own House in order, its Members across Europe treated and respected equally and on a transparent basis, or we could continue with the current disgraceful mix and muddle which leaves us all open to ridicule. I have said it before, and I will say it again. I believe we all come here to work on behalf of Europe's people, not to spend our time in debates about our own pay and status. Council, you have the chance to get us out of this ridiculous situation and thereby enhance the Union in the eyes of its citizens. Please, please do not mess up this time. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and welcome the contents of this report. It has caused me to reflect on two problems which have come to me recently in my own constituency. Both concern cases with decisions pending before the Court of Justice. The first relates to a large suspension bridge and whether or not tolls on it should be subject to VAT. The decision could have huge implications for our local economy. Secondly there is a lady within thirteen weeks of retirement who is desperate for news of a decision that will affect seriously her financial circumstances in old age. These are just two examples of real life problems behind delays in Europe’s system of justice. Delays in justice can mean personal difficulties and even tragedy. This is not to say that all of our own national systems of justice are perfect, but all too often they may be waiting for a preliminary ruling from the European Court. Amongst the statistics there is a worrying upward trend in the time taken to deal with preliminary references. This should not be taken as a criticism of the Court or of its staff, rather of the Court’s structure and its lack of resources in a growing European Union. The proposals in this report are very welcome as an interim palliative, but Europe is a legal construction, its courts are central to its proper functioning. In the face of coming enlargement the IGC must deal with fundamental reform and restructuring of the court system. Otherwise we will all, as elected representatives, be faced with more and more clamour from our citizens who are not getting access to quick and effective justice. – I suppose I should start by declaring an interest as a member of a liberal profession to whom this question applies, being a lawyer. It seems to me that this week in Parliament we have been lobbied hard by lawyers' organisations supporting their professional position. In contrast, last week in the UK we saw the publication of a report by the Office of Fair Trading looking at competition in the professions, the very issue that we are looking at today. That report was based on two premises: first, that the professions are entrusted with the delivery of services of considerable public importance; but second, that any restriction on the supply of professional services will tend to drive up costs and prices and will limit consumer access and choice. That is why the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party in this Parliament has tabled certain amendments. Yes, liberal professions have a special position in society, but that position and the services they offer should be enhanced by more competition and independent scrutiny. That is what we want to see the Commission look at. Let me give you two UK-based examples. First, price: should this be regulated? Solicitors, my own profession, used to have a monopoly of conveyancing, the buying and selling of land. Competition was introduced, licensed conveyancers allowed, and it drove down prices, but not standards. I experienced this myself the other week. I had to renew the lease of my office. I was bound to use my landlord's solicitors. To set up the original lease they charged me GBP 300; that seemed quite enough to me. But to vary a couple of words in the self-same document, they proposed to charge me GBP 500. That, to me, is licensed robbery by our profession. They need to be challenged. Secondly, a constituent of mine recently came to me with a history of a dispute over the last 15 years. That dispute had taken him through five law firms, ruined his business and his family life, all about a debt that had actually been acknowledged in writing. He had had no help from my profession's complaints body. These are the kinds of examples that do the liberal professions no service; and sadly they are not limited or isolated. Yes, professional standards can be imposed by professional bodies, but they can only be further enhanced by competition and external scrutiny. That is why I ask colleagues to support the amendments tabled by my group. – Mr President, I should like to compliment the Commission on sticking with the negotiations with the USA over the last two years. The reality is that data is flowing across the Atlantic and we, and our citizens, have no protection at present. So the question for us must be: do we give them the protection that is on offer or do we say it is not enough? If we do that, then what will happen? Concerns have rightly been raised about the access for individuals to redress and compensation. But this raises the fundamental debate about the clash of legal cultures which has been so central to these negotiations. Clearly, as an elected Parliament, we have a duty to protect our citizens, but I fear that the conditionality in paragraph 7 of Mrs Paciotti's report endangers the whole agreement, for it could hardly be more fundamental to the debate about adequacy or equivalence. We are in a global context here and -commerce will continually throw at us clashes of legal systems and style. Yet we cannot attempt to change the way the Americans deal with their own national legislation and legal system. They have their way and we have ours. They will come to their own conclusions about how they will change their system. Yes, they are considering it; yes, they have had several annual reports about the protection of personal data. I wish we had that within our European Union. I urge colleagues in the vote tomorrow to give protection to our citizens now. Conditionality will mean no protection now. But if we express our very strong reservations and to ask for clear review, this will give our citizens protection now and offer us progress in this very difficult area. – Mr President, I am very pleased to be able to respond to this strategic document on behalf of my group. Broadly speaking, we can welcome it as evidenced by the fact that we have not tabled any amendments. We seem to be moving on with the internal market, hopefully to a position where we will get an internal market that functions properly and fairly for all our citizens and businesses. I would like to highlight two challenges to the perfection of the internal market. The first is striking a proper balance between a quest for harmonisation and respect for the subsidiarity principle. I wish to draw attention to this in relation to the ultra-peripheral regions of the Union whose status has now been specifically recognised by Article 299 of the Treaty. Our group will seek to support an inclusion of an amendment to the motion endorsing this. The second and perhaps bigger challenge is that of the new technologies, the advent of e-commerce. We have the biggest opportunity ever to make the single market a reality to many sole traders and SMEs in our Member States who may not previously have thought of selling outside their own immediate locality. However, this commercial revolution in the way we do business will also require a revolution in our legal thinking. As a lawyer I know that my profession is not particularly known for being revolutionary. The systems of commercial and civil law that exist across our Member States were largely constructed in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, a response to industrial and commercial changes in those centuries. We need our own new responses for the 21st century. I have raised, as have other colleagues, our fears about the combined contents of the Framework E-Commerce Directive and the revision to the Brussels and Lugano Conventions. There are fears that e-commerce may be strangled at birth by regulations which potentially expose traders to 15 different European legal jurisdictions whilst at the same time the very same regulations could fail to really give our citizens easy or affordable access to justice. The old conventions and legal approaches need to be subject to some new and imaginative thinking if we are really to unleash the potential of e-commerce. Some have suggested a new . Maybe it should be . It is equally true, given the question tabled by Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, that Parliament needs to be fully involved in this process. With new legislative proposals, we should not be pushed to provide opinions and reports at breakneck speed which allow us little time for thought and consultation with interest groups and citizens. Whether it be regulation by that way or by means of so-called new soft-law methods, again Parliament needs to be fully and properly engaged in the process. There is no room for fudge or lack of clarity. The new commerce will need a framework that provides certainty both for consumer and trader alike. We have challenging times ahead. Give this House the time and mechanisms which will allow us to respond in a way that meets not only the expectations of Europe’s citizens but also of those in the global marketplace who are waiting for us to take a lead. – I welcome the Commissioner's statement and particularly its measured and considered nature. The ELDR resolution that has been tabled takes the same view. We do not want a quick, ill-conceived reaction to events that have taken place in my country and the announcement made by the British Government. These are serious matters and reflect our citizens' deep concerns but we should appreciate the full context of the UK announcement, acknowledging the subsidiarity principle to which the Commissioner referred. It is only a proposal, not a decision, and it follows a very careful and considered report by the chief medical officer's expert group on cloning. The matter has been under consideration for two years – too long, say some commentators, when measured against the lives of people with cancer, Parkinson's disease or organ failure who might be aided by this research. The experts' group merely proposes an extension to existing UK rules on the purposes for which embryos can be used in research. I emphasise this is an extension to existing rules and controls in this very, very delicate area. We must respect the there are deep and genuine public concerns on both sides of this argument and this is what our resolution tries to do. The British Government has recognised that in its proposal because it will be the subject of a free vote, possibly later this year. I believe, although it is not my party's government, that the British Government has been measured and considered in its response. I ask this Parliament to be measured and considered in the way it deals with this important issue. – Mr President, the passage of this directive at second reading has perhaps been historic. No amendments! I congratulate heartily our rapporteur on her original strategy and I hope what will be her achievement of obtaining continuing consensus. I do not believe it has been easy for any of us as politicians to curb our natural instinct either to improve on or alter someone else’s text. Yet it was a carefully considered decision. We know the proposal is not absolutely perfect but the general feedback, both at a recent hearing in committee and from those who have lobbied Members has been: ‘let’s have what might be an imperfect directive with a review rather than none at all’. Speed with certainty in this fast-moving new world is essential. Now we have an initial road-map; a reference point for European businesses trading on the Web; a road-map that has clearly established the country of origin principle while still protecting consumer interest. That is a good balance. This should really open up the internal market to the many and increasing opportunities which -commerce promises to businesses of all sizes, but particularly SMEs. We must continually be aware that the Web is not limited to Europe. It is, of course, global. A large part of consumer transactions from Europe on the Web is directed at American sites and in future may well be directed at Asian sites. European business has to keep up and the key to this will be confidence. We have to aspire to the establishment of the highest quality of -businesses in Europe. Companies setting up or changing to this way of doing business have to look carefully at the way they operate, at the information and the service they provide to customers if they are to survive. We should also take care to provide coherent legislation. Confidence is essential. There are many opportunities but what of the threats? Only this weekend we have seen in London the down-side of the communications and information revolution that the Web has created by putting elements in society in touch with one another, who have then wrought violence on the streets of London. This may be extreme but there will be unscrupulous people who will set up scams on the Web. One bad news story may blow confidence in -trade for years. -commerce is in its early stages. We need, as legislators, to be watchful, not necessarily interventionist, but wary of implications as the medium grows. Our rapporteur has given us an extremely good basis. The ELDR Group will stick to her original ‘no-amendment’ line. – Mr President, the rapporteur should be congratulated on his wide-ranging and important report and he has rightly identified the problems of transposition and application of Community law, mainly with regard to directives. But we may have seen nothing yet, because we are moving into an era of new legislation – the era of co-regulation. Will this in future form part of Community law, whose application and uniformity we should be looking out for? In its White Paper on governance, the Commission states that co-regulation will not be appropriate where rules need to apply in a uniform way. Nor will it be appropriate where fundamental rights or political choices are called into question. Yet this year we had to produce Parliament's own-initiative report on the EEJ-Net, a European alternative dispute network set up by the Commission using a co-regulatory approach. Yet what could be more fundamental than our citizens' access to justice or the way that law is applied and dispensed? Will we be watching every arbitrator and regulator to make sure that Community law is correctly applied? We have enough trouble at the moment with the normal judiciary. We need to be aware of these issues. They are fundamental to our citizens and also to the rights of this Parliament as a co-legislator, not to mention their possible fragmentary effect on the achievements of the internal market if they are not very carefully monitored by this Parliament. – Mr President, I should like to congratulate our rapporteur on taking this important issue forward and also to congratulate the Commission on a very good consultation document on contract law. We have made a good start in what is a very politically sensitive area. Although we might see the practical arguments for moving forward because of the advent of the euro and because of e-commerce, we have to ensure that our citizens are also comfortable with this. Every time we talk about approximation of core civil law subjects, I see scare stories in the English press that English common law is about to be replaced by the , complete with a small picture of Napoleon. Last week English contract law was supposed to be under threat. However misguided some of this comment might be, we have to respect the concerns and deal with them. The process outlined in this report will allow us to do so. The Commission has made some very pragmatic suggestions about contract law, which I hope the Council will act on. It was, after all, the Council that brought forward this idea of convergence in the Tampere agenda. We must insist that the area of freedom and justice referred to there is as much about civil law as about criminal law. The Tampere conclusions foresaw convergence in civil law. Convergence is a long process, not an abrupt event. It is not about imposing a European civil code. It is about channelling and guiding developments in Community law to give us a more coherent and less piecemeal approach, ultimately allowing more knowledge of the law and greater access to justice across Europe's internal market. In considering these matters, we would do much better to concentrate on what draws us together in Europe's common legal heritage. All our legal traditions owe something to the early modern fusion of feudal, Roman and canon law called  We now have the chance to guide and structure the modern reconvergence of our legal systems. We should welcome that opportunity. Mr President, I too would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur. It is a very timely and well-produced report on what, as has already been said, is a very complex and sensitive issue. Although it is complex it is an issue to which we have to take a practical approach. There have been times in our committee when we have been presented with initiatives from the Member States, where they want us to introduce penalties, but we find ourselves in a situation where we cannot respond as they would like. Bearing that situation in mind, when it comes to the IGC, the Council and Member States will appreciate the good sense of what is being proposed here. I was also struck by the idea presented to us – at the enlightening hearing with experts when Mr Koukiadis was preparing this report – that the Community should and must have the wherewithal to protect its own property in the widest sense. That is what we are talking about: property in its widest sense. But there is one point I would like to make and underline. If we are to give the Community power in this area of competence – and we should – then it should also be underpinned by the sort of balance achieved by the Community itself signing up to the European Convention on Human Rights. If we are to have some competence, albeit limited, in the criminal field, this must be balanced by measuring that legislation against something fundamental and basic that guarantees our citizens' human rights. . – The opinion on this report revolves around Articles 15 and 17. I now speak on behalf of my group, in respect of the amendments tabled by them and other political groups. The shared aim of all of us is to try to find a balanced way of protecting consumers and shielding SMEs from differing Member State jurisdictions. This problem has been exaggerated totally out of proportion. From the evidence available, such cross border B to C disputes are few and far between and the hope is that most of them will now be weeded out by ADR systems. But, where they go beyond that, it is the consumer who is most disadvantaged. The bigger businesses will be able to afford legal assistance. The astute and sensible SME can insure for a modest premium. That leaves the residue of unsuspecting businesses that may get involved in a transaction outside their Member State. In these circumstances it is not unreasonable to build on the previous content of Article 15, use the concept of “directed at”, acknowledge that this is a concept also found in American jurisprudence and utilised by WIPO. It is not simple but it has been used and there is no simple solution here. This, in combination with a modification to Article 17, which allows freedom of contract to choose ADR but respects existing consumer rights in the form of the unfair contract terms directive, presents a much more workable, legally certain package that will promote confidence. It is a mark of the balance that we have achieved in these amendments that they have won the support of the CBI in my own country and more than partial support from consumer organisations. They certainly prefer this package to the committee one. What I did not refer to when I spoke previously was Parliament’s role in this legislative process. We are consultees. We know from what has been said on this subject by Commissioner Byrne that he will not accept the type of formulation proposed by the committee at Article 17a. I believe that Commissioner Vitorino shares his view. From the Council’s perspective, the UK Government expressed a similar view. It seems unlikely that a French Presidency, which is highlighting consumer affairs, will take a different view. We could say that, because we are only consultees, we can say what we like. We are merely signalling a political direction but it is important that we should signal a legally certain and workable solution, not one that will create as many problems as it seeks to solve. Parliament should behave responsibly as a grown-up legislator, not as a petulant child. We have the opportunity to build on the already substantial achievements in the committee’s final report. I hope that we will go further. – Mr President, like everybody else, I too would like to pay tribute to our two rapporteurs for their cross-party working. Indeed, I must say that when Mr Kinnock referred to a family reunion I feel like something of an interloper. We wanted to ensure that the ELDR voice was heard tonight, heard to congratulate our rapporteurs and the Commissioner and to say that we very much support the work that is being done in this reform process. It is a recognition that we are moving towards a modern civil service for Europe and a proper career structure for those who work in it. There perhaps has to be a certain irony that we, as legislators, spend much of our time demanding change and modernisation of those we legislate for. Now are putting our own House in order. I will not rehearse all the many good things that other speakers have referred to that rightly find their place in the Regulations. But I would like to say something about the pension question. I am grateful to the Commissioner for his very long and worthy answer to the oral question, and I would like to underline what he said. Acquired rights and legitimate expectations of existing staff must be paramount and that must be honoured. The other matter to which I would like to draw attention – and I am sorry that it seems that, whilst there is sympathy, it will not find full recognition – is that of the position of our parliamentary assistants. Amendments Nos 58 and 59 are there to try to regularise and give status to those who serve us as individual MEPs. This is something that is long overdue and has to find its place, eventually, in the mechanisms and workings of this House. . – Mr President, I came to this opinion on behalf of the Legal Affairs Committee with many misgivings. The suggested extension of the directive to a new swathe of businesses and professions looks on the face of it to be both dangerous and burdensome: dangerous in that there might be a threat to the privileged lawyer/client relationship which is the linchpin of access to justice in a civil society, and burdensome because in theory this directive would now extend to your local high street jeweller. However, it is one thing to require a multinational firm of accountants to comply with this sort of regulation, quite another to require a small firm or one-person business to do so. I was attracted at first by the outrage of colleagues who said that this proposal represented the state turning lawyers and others into policemen on their behalf – but as I read and researched, my views changed. We must bear in mind, as has already been said by the rapporteur, that the proposal we are considering is before us at our request, at the request of Parliament, because we wanted to get to grips with money-laundering, with this international crime which represents a substantial threat to the single market. I have been impressed by the results obtained in England by the Criminal Investigation Unit, working with lawyers under what are already very extensive rules and regulations, but respecting professional privilege. They have been particularly successful. We should learn from that experience. In Scotland, lawyers are encouraged to see tough rules as self-defence for lawyers, protecting them against the claim of involvement in crime. We should as a Parliament stick to our original desire to tackle money-laundering strongly as a manifestation of organized crime and it seems to me that perhaps this problem will come back to haunt us. It is a shame that we have not been able to deal with this problem as what it is, a matter of criminal law, but have had instead to deal with it within the strait-jacket of the internal market context. .  Mr President, if the Council is to maintain the text, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market was unanimous in wishing to reject this proposal, both for technical and political reasons. It is possible for Parliament to vote to finally reject the text, rather than refer the matter back to committee. I do not think that the committee will change its mind, for technical and political reasons. If the Council is not good enough to be here then we should finally reject it now. Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his very careful reply, which he relates very much to this particular question, the issue of Lloyd's. I should like to think of this in terms of two very general principles: firstly, the implementation of legislation by Member States and action by the Commission to ensure that that happens; secondly, the entitlement to information between Parliament and the Commission during such enforcement measures. I should also like to apply some common sense to those two principles. Looking with common sense at how this particular matter proceeded, one cannot but feel that something is not quite right, that there is a period of 20 years when nothing seems to happen and no implementation takes place. I am sorry, Commissioner, that your colleague, Commissioner Bolkestein is not here. I know that he shares our deep concern about implementation of legislation by Member States and making sure that it happens effectively so that the internal market, of which we are all so proud, works properly. However, if it takes a Member State over 20 years to implement a directive, and a Member State can carry on without doing that for such a long period of time, then common sense tells us that something is not right. I am greatly concerned – as I am sure others are – about the message that this sends out to acceding states on the eve of enlargement concerning the way we conduct our business and the way we expect Member States to adhere to Community law. It is all very well to say that there is no past incompatibility. As a lawyer, that sounds to me like a very nice, lawyer's answer. What we are looking for here are common sense answers and an answer to the question as to why a Member State can be so long in default and why it is that we, as Parliament, cannot get a simple answer to a simple question about that. – Mr President, I think those of you who know me in this House, will know that I am not one to make a fuss. But this is a big public health issue and I want to speak firstly from personal experience. Last autumn, following the first session back after the summer, I was very ill for some four weeks, culminating in a week in hospital. Those who looked after me told me that as far as they were concerned it was legionella. I was in no doubt that I caught it when I came back to this Parliament after the summer recess. A number of other colleagues have told me that they had had similar, though not such severe, symptoms. The problem is that we all go back to our own doctors in our various home towns and therefore any links between our symptoms and this House are perhaps lost. I feel that we have to take this extremely seriously. It is not just our health, but the health of our staff and the many visitors in this House that is at risk. I am told we will not have hot water. If we do not have hot water, how can food be prepared safely and hygienically on these premises? I thought very carefully about coming this week. I decided that of course I should come. We have a democratic duty to be here and perform our duties. But if anyone going away from this House this week, Member, staff or visitor, has symptoms, then those that run this House will be guilty of having let us come here this week and it will be their responsibility. – I speak as the coordinator of the ELDR Group on the Legal Affairs Committee. The House should realise, from the fact that this matter has occupied our Committee for a period of three very long and exhaustive meetings, that it was felt to be a very complex and difficult issue to deal with. I for one would feel it wrong for this House to try to look at this matter in a hurry, which seems to be the proposal being put forward by Mr Barón Crespo. This is a case for absolute objectivity and attention to the rules. As I understand the rule in question, which, Madame President, you are carefully trying to construe, there is at the moment an opinion before you from the Legal Affairs Committee but there is not a proposal as such. The rule talks about Parliament having a right to give a view on a proposal, but it seems that you have merely an opinion, not a proposal. If we were to take a view as a full Parliament, then we should have something more in front of us and a great deal more time and careful consideration before we enter into such a hasty vote on an issue such as this. – Mr President, my Group would like to welcome the annual legislative programme. However, we have some concerns about the process. I came to this procedure as a relatively new Member of this House. It was with some incredulity that I found myself faced with these various draft resolutions from each of the groups, all of them very much resembling shopping lists of differing lengths and ingredients. Indeed, to carry the metaphor further and using the English usage, if we were going to make a meal from these it would be rather long and rather indigestible. I understand that it has been the normal tradition to obediently produce these lists. Now, I am not particularly radical or revolutionary, but it seemed to my colleagues that this process lacked something, especially at a time when we are trying to reconnect Europe with its citizens, when we want them to be clear about what we are doing here. There has been much talk about concentrating on core tasks and of achieving better quality of European legislation rather than more quantity. All this sits rather uneasily with endless lists. With this in mind, we produced a one-page resolution highlighting key areas. However, this has not reached the compromise resolution, so we wish now to put down a clear marker for the future about how this process should be conducted. We should like to suggest that, since this is a very important process and moment in our legislative cycle, and to enable the Commission and Parliament to approach it in a constructive way, the annual state of the Union address could be combined with a resolution from Parliament on key political priorities and then go to the committees for more detailed debate. This would get away from the shopping-list approach and give more political focus. It would allow Parliament to participate fully in the process, not just by swapping shopping lists with you. It is because we want to give more purpose and prominence to this procedure that the ELDR intends not to sign the current eight-page list – not because we object to the contents, but because we think this is in danger of becoming an annual ritual performance without substance and real meaning. What we would like to do is catch the imagination of Europe's citizens. – Mr President, I try to adopt a practical approach to this issue because I have one of the biggest art auction houses outside of London in my constituency. They had raised their fears about these proposals and I went back there recently and we looked at some case studies together. We took paintings from a recent auction that would have been affected by this proposal. With one item there would have been considerable difficulty in tracing the artist's family; only tracing agents and collecting societies would have benefited. In another case, the item would undoubtedly have been sold elsewhere, i.e. in America. The one artist we were able to contact who would have benefited was not interested and said it would all be too complex to help him or his family. I am afraid this leads me to the inevitable conclusion that we do not need this, and that without international agreement in place, it is one piece of internal market legislation that we can do without. – Mr President, I fear that we are in danger of losing the plot or losing sight of what this directive is about. It is part of the financial services action plan; in our Commissioner's own words, "a key element in the creation of a fully integrated market in financial services, giving investors and consumers more choice". The proposals introduce three key elements at a time when there is a change in control of a company: protection of minority shareholders, transparency in relation to bid information and regulatory supervision of the process. But what are we in danger of doing as a Parliament, by virtue of the amendments tabled? Firstly, we are being far from transparent. Some of the amendments seem to be a covert attempt to introduce some elements of a company statute through the back door. Secondly, we are adopting rigid structures and procedures when the recommendation of the Commission was actually light-touch, allowing Member States leeway to reflect national practice in corporate culture. Lastly, the issue of clarity: the lack of this is especially evident in the debate about jurisdiction, an issue of which I have a little experience. The common position suggested some form of split arrangement. Now we have a proposition that would lead to muddle, forum shopping, potential litigation at a delicate moment in a corporate deal. This is not helpful. Jurisdiction should be solely in the hands of the Member State where the target company is registered. This is fair for minority shareholders, transparent and, above all, clear. Indeed I would ask the Commissioner to consider whether he can accept my amendment on this crucial point. The  editorial today talked about bid politics: that it has taken no less than 10 years to get this draft and that we, Parliament, could destroy that in 10 minutes tomorrow by voting through misguided amendments. I hope that will not be the case. – Mr President, this is one of the few times I have actually spoken on a topical or urgent matter in this House. I am motivated to do so because the shock waves and repercussions of what is happening in Zimbabwe have reached even my constituency in the in Yorkshire in the North of England in a number of ways in the last couple of weeks. It started with a visit from a young Zimbabwean with our local asylum seekers' organisation. He was an active member of the MDC. He and his fiancée had fled in fear of their lives, first to South Africa and, finding that not safe, they had come to the UK, but unfortunately his fiancée is likely to be returned. We do not know to what, but we can suspect. Then last week in Ripon in Yorkshire, I was asked to share a platform with a Member of the Zimbabwean Parliament, a shadow minister. Quietly spoken, he told of his aspirations for his country, a country of great potential but where, as we have heard, democracy and human rights are now denied and the rule of the law flouted. He told how he had been beaten, how he feared daily for his wife and his family and, just as we have also heard, he feared what would happen to him when he returns on 17 March. When people are fleeing for their lives across the world and when democratically elected politicians are in fear of their lives, Europe needs to make a response that this is not acceptable. I believe our resolution is clear and I hope it gets the support it deserves. Mr President, I hesitate to intrude on what is almost an all-Finnish debate, but I would like to welcome this second action plan and draw attention to two points. I was privileged to attend on behalf of Parliament all three ministerial meetings that helped prepare this action plan, and there are two points which seem to have been overlooked. The Northern Dimension has to do with EU-Russia relations, but it also has to do with something much wider than that across the whole of the high north and the Arctic. We held one of the ministerial meetings in Ilulissat, Greenland, and I thought the window on the Arctic had been highlighted, but it seems instead to have been slammed shut. The Arctic environment and its people concern us all. They are part of a global challenge which we have to answer and which we ignore at our absolute peril. We had the chance in the EU to show leadership in this by working with and through the Arctic Council and also, more importantly, by forging a partnership with the US in this area of the globe where we could work together. The second point that is missing is that of parliamentary and representative involvement at all levels. The first ministerial meeting foresaw the creation of a Northern Dimension forum. I was at a Nordic Council parliamentarians meeting yesterday in Warsaw, where the same point was made. We need parliamentary involvement at all levels to champion, advocate, scrutinise and move this policy forward so that it does not remain a phantom policy but becomes a reality. Mr President, we need to change this amendment so that it better reflects the realities of the Treaty of Nice. I would ask that the last two words be deleted and that you accept that as an oral amendment. – Mr President, as the first vice-president of the Parliamentary Delegation for Relations with Switzerland, Iceland and Norway over the last three years, I have been privileged to represent Parliament on several occasions at ministerial meetings on the Northern Dimension. I want to concentrate on process – that is what concerns me – and Parliament's right to contribute properly to the new action plan. I welcome the action plan and the effort that both the Swedish presidency and most recently, the Danish presidency, have put in to the Northern Dimension. Enlargement will represent a step change in the Northern Dimension. It will no longer be a matter of high foreign policy just about the relationship with Russia. It will be about many countries that will now be Member States and the neighbours will be different. It will involve matters that have to do with the EU's regional and environmental policy. That means that civil society and Members of this House and other elected representatives need to be properly and fully involved. At the first ministerial meeting I attended in Luxembourg, there was a commitment to have a Northern Dimension forum. It has yet to see the light of day. That ought to have happened a long time ago. I sense that there is some reluctance to fully involve this House in the Northern Dimension. I hope I am wrong. As this policy changes, I would like to see a much more regular system of annual reporting and involvement with this House, because the Northern Dimension concerns all our citizens. The environment and climate in the far north is important to European solidarity. I urge the Commissioner to involve this House fully. – Mr President, on a point of order, because of the historic debates that will take place this part-session there is no Question Time. I had submitted a question to the Council on the legislative process and the way in which this House is potentially being treated in relation to the proposed directive on legal aid. The Council intends to adopt this measure at the end of the month on the basis of a different text to that on which Parliament was consulted. This will avoid the codecision procedure, which would kick in after the end of the month, and it also avoids the strong advice of the Commission that the Council should reconsult Parliament. I should like to know, on behalf of this House, why the Council feels it has no obligation to reconsult us. Does it not agree that this action runs absolutely counter to the principle of mutual respect and good faith between these institutions in the legislative process, as set out in the Treaties and endorsed by the Court of Justice? Mr President, this is serious and I would ask you to look into it. – Mr President, I want to give the explanation on behalf of the Liberal Group in respect of the Commission's legislative programme. We abstained as a group throughout this vote. The reason, as we made clear during the debate on Tuesday, is because we believe the process to be flawed, not because we necessarily have any quarrel with the content. Having put this marker down for this time, in the future we would like to see the process reviewed so that it amounts to more than just ourselves as a Parliament swapping lists with the Commission. We want something more substantial and meaningful. Mr President, I should like to say to the Commissioner that this has gone on for far too long. I welcome the question, but what I would welcome even more is a promise of clear legislative action. In fact, as far as the Trading Standards Officers in my home city of Hull are concerned, this has been a running campaign against chicken cheats for over six years. That is long enough. During the last of those years I have had correspondence and contact on their behalf, both with our national authorities and with the Commissioner's bureau. Now, of course, recent publicity has highlighted the problem with chicken, but this deception is not confined to chicken – adulteration of other meats, particularly ham, is commonplace. This entire practice of adding water and, therefore, also other animal proteins to meats is misleading, deceptive and downright immoral in respect of its impact on some religious communities. Whilst labelling might be one possible improvement, my understanding, as other speakers have said, is that the best answer would be a ban on the adding of water above, say, 15%. I want to be able to go back to my home city – which is a large port through which much of this adulterated meat comes in – and tell our local authorities that they can now expect legislation to back up their long-running pursuit of this deceitful and harmful trade. – Mr President, I wish to begin by paying tribute to Mr Provan's chairmanship of Parliament's Conciliation Committee. He did a marvellous job in very difficult circumstances. I should like to say, on behalf of the ELDR Group, that we are fully and undividedly behind the agreement reached in conciliation and will vote accordingly. Most of the reasons have been well rehearsed before and we have heard some of them again this morning. This directive is crucial, indeed critical, to the financial services action plan. Therefore if we are genuinely interested in the competitiveness and good functioning of Europe's economy, we have to proceed with this directive. My Group believes that it is in the long-term interests of Europe's citizens. I want us to consider the interests of those we are really trying to protect with this directive, namely the minority shareholders, so that we can begin to secure investment and ownership in enterprises across Europe. It is now beginning to be the case, and will increasingly be so in future, that many of those investors are Europe's citizens investing for their future, savings and pensions. Recent events have shown that citizens are becoming increasingly frustrated with the inability of politicians to deal with the effects of globalisation and other aspects of corporate life. For example it seems quite possible that a group of motivated shareholders may be beginning to achieve an about-turn on the projected building of the Ilisu dam in Turkey. Shareholders can act against the Wall Street sharks. Shareholders are property owners; they have rights and responsibilities which can be exercised in many ways this House would wish to endorse. Shareholders will often also be employees. The conciliation result represents a substantial compromise. This directive has the potential to be the means to allow our citizens to be investors in the future of Europe's enterprise and to secure the health and vitality of our economy. . – Mr President, I was struck today by an article in ; the subtitle read: "Why do America and Europe differ on the importance of consumer interests?" It went on to say, from a US point of view: "when it comes to putting the consumer at the center of its economic model, Europe remains stubbornly old-fashioned." E-commerce, of all types, still lags behind in Europe. By 2005, 11% of US retail sales will be online, only 6+% in western Europe. Our hope must be that this Commission initiative for a European Extra-Judicial Network will help build consumer e-confidence and force those European figures up. These were the problems that we wrestled with during the passage of the Brussels regulation: how to allow Europe's consumers access to cross-border justice without over-burdening business and yet, at the same time, exposing business to necessary competitive forces. We must be clear that this is an attempt to deal with a large number of low-value cross-border consumer disputes, outside the normal legal system. Alternative means that almost replace the lower end of our traditional court systems will be introduced. This is a very ambitious project, and such an exercise needs to be seriously undertaken and properly funded. One of my greatest concerns about this initiative is its funding, both substantively and in terms of its publicity. Our citizens know where their local courts are, but will they know how or where to access the EEJ Net? From what I have seen, I am not over-optimistic. Secondly, is the system coherent and efficient? At the moment, progress is very variable in the different Member States. The Commission must get tough in this respect, hence our suggestion of a service-level agreement with each clearing-house. Only such an arrangement will ensure that our citizens get the service that they really deserve. This brings me to the amendments. We can happily accept Amendments Nos 2 and 3, but we have grave concerns about Amendment No 1. Not to allow the clearing-houses to give legal advice flies in the face of reality. Some of the centres already operating as Euroguichets, have trained lawyers on their staff. They could not function without that. We cannot offer our citizens a second-rate service. Good legal advice, or knowledge, at the outset of a claim is essential if it is not to veer off in the wrong direction, causing aggravation, disappointment and denial of justice. Lastly, let us turn to the legislative method, ADR and the EEJ Net, are examples of soft law or co-regulation. If this is the way of the future, it is important that Parliament be fully involved from start to finish. For example, most of us would applaud the other sectoral initiative in this field, the FIN Net dealing with financial services for instance, but when was this initiative referred to Parliament? If we are replacing or enhancing our legal system and access to justice, these issues are key to civil society and they cannot and must not be tackled without the input of democratically elected Members. – Mr President, firstly I want to make it absolutely clear that I have every sympathy with what our rapporteur wishes to achieve in taking forward this proposal. As we have often noted before, motor vehicle accidents unfortunately touch the lives of far too many of our citizens as mobility across Europe grows. The Fourth Directive made great strides in dealing with these problems. However, I want to concentrate on the fact that the proposal "requires" Member States to implement in their national law the provisions relating to an improved compensation procedure. In essence, we have created a preferential system for European motor accident claims and therefore, logically, it makes sense to give those who experience an accident in a purely national context the same advantages. Logically, yes, but does this way forward respect subsidiarity? I am afraid not and this is an important point. I have therefore retabled an amendment to make this merely a recommendation to Member States. The point is that the issues raised here are a matter for national private civil law. It would involve substantial changes in tort law in England and Wales, for example. We would be putting motor vehicle accident victims in a class apart. What about the victims of medical negligence, industrial injury or any other type of claim against insurers? At present our committee is looking carefully at the harmonisation of civil law. In that respect we have been rightly critical of a piecemeal approach, improperly researched. I merely wish to make the point today that this proposal does, and must, involve a much bigger debate with tremendous implications for our respective systems of civil law. It deserves proper and transparent treatment. – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his wake-up call on the internal market, which is to be congratulated on its ten-year anniversary. We sometimes forget that the internal market is still a process and represents a lot of unfinished business and you were right to remind us of this, Commissioner. If we look at our committee's agenda, most of the work has as its basis the good functioning of the internal market. Still, sadly, as you reminded us, with issues like the Community patent, those big decisions are still being flunked, sometimes, it has to be said, in the Council. It is strange because the internal market has been such a success story for Europe, a vision that we managed to sell effectively to our citizens in the run-up to 1992. Maybe it is drifting a bit and it really is time to re-engage our citizens, and particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, in what we are doing. What is in it for them? How does the market work for them? It is again a paradox: with the euro and with e-commerce, the internal market really ought to be taking off. Although you mentioned a survey which showed so much support for the internal market, I really do not think we can take that for granted. I and my colleagues on this committee were glad to be a part, some months ago, of an internal market forum that was organised in this parliament. We should do more of that to re-engage with our citizens and businesses about what the market is there for. If we achieve that, and if citizens and businesses are engaged, the level of implementation and excitement in Member States will be much greater and much more complete. I would like to echo Maria Berger's concerns about the European Convention. The internal market must find a key place in those discussions, or we risk losing what we have created and made such a success of. – Mr President, at the heart of this debate is the theme of protecting the public interest in contracts awarded by public authorities. It is also, in the context of the internal market, about encouraging cross-border tendering and working: 15% of EU GDP – that is an important input in achieving public policy aims. We should be looking to achieve best value for our citizens and a transparent process for those tendering. But best value can never be based on purely financial criteria. Price alone can never be a complete measure of what is in the public interest, of what is the most advantageous offer. I remember, as the member of a local authority, seeing a council waste time, effort and money trying to unscramble a valuable school meals contract that proved to be totally unsatisfactory. Yes, the price was right, but only the lawyers won. The goals pursued by public authorities are justifiably, in the public interest, a mixture that includes environmental and social goals. As long as the playing field is level and the procedure is absolutely transparent, such goals and choices can and should be valid, as the ECJ has recently confirmed. Such choices, indeed, are a valid and intrinsic part of local political life. Mr President, this report is not about Silvio Berlusconi. It is a report about media concentration in all countries of the European Union, which is a matter of legitimate public concern. It is a report that has been drawn up in accordance with the normal procedures of our House and, in recognition of the electoral sensitivities of some, the rapporteur has offered to delete Mr Berlusconi's name from the report. Nonetheless, some colleagues are seeking to delay, to filibuster, to disrupt our procedures in order to evade the harsh searchlight of an unpalatable truth. My group calls on the PPE-DE Group to withdraw these wrecking amendments; and if it will not, we are ready to vote on all 350 of them. We ask you to allow the House to decide whether to proceed and we welcome your assurance that we will have a chance to vote on this report. – Mr President, I know that a number of Members of the House had wished to have a discussion with the Convention President in advance of Thessaloniki but he clearly is not going to come, so I support Mr Barón Crespo's suggestion that you put this item on the agenda of the Conference of Presidents on Thursday. – Mr President, I should like to congratulate you on the very calm and efficient way in which you chaired that vote. It augurs well. However, there is hardly any other Parliament which would have voted that number of amendments to a report. Few Members in this House can have been expected to know what they were voting on. They are at the mercy of their colleagues and the whips. The procedure does little to enhance democracy and it is an unedifying and indeed incomprehensible spectacle for citizens who are following our work.  I urge you, in your term in office, to ensure a thorough reform of the decision-making procedures of this Assembly. – High Representative, Commissioner, you have the dubious fortune to live in interesting times, as the Chinese might say. You may be the architects of the Union's awakening in foreign policy. I welcome the meetings that Mr Sharon had last week with Palestinian leaders. I regret that it is the first time since he came to power that he has directly engaged with the Palestinians and I hope it is not mere coincidence that the talks come just before his trip to Washington DC. But it will not be enough to talk about a cease-fire. We need to be talking about an Israeli pullback and an end to the destruction of EUR 17 million worth of EU-funded Palestinian infrastructure. I recommend, High Representative, that if we want peace we do not define any starting date. Nonetheless, the news that some Israeli reservists are reportedly refusing to serve outside the 1967 frontiers is a welcome development.  After all it was similar pressure from reservists that led to Israel's withdrawal from Lebanon and, taken together with Arafat's expression of willingness of the Palestinians to end the conflict and the need to find creative solutions, these green shoots of optimism need to be nurtured and encouraged to grow. High Representative, you spoke of the Mitchell report and light at the end of the tunnel. I hope this is not the headlamp of an oncoming train. Sometimes America's friends – or so-called friends – in the Middle East have been about as helpful to the peace process as the so-called loyalists in Northern Ireland have proven loyal to the UK Government. The Union has a serious dilemma if it believes that US policy on the Middle East is damaging the entirety of Western interests. I wish you wisdom and courage in your discussions with our friends on the other side of the Atlantic. High Representative, you spoke also about Afghanistan. My group is concerned about reports of interfactional fighting in Northern and Eastern Afghanistan, leading to thousands of Pashtuns fleeing villages, reports of 50 or more people being killed in Gardez. Such reports are an ominous sign and strengthen the case for an international stabilisation force to prevent any possibility of a slide to civil war. Our priority would be to complete the elimination of terrorist networks but in this regard we believe that whatever questions there are over the status of combatants held by the US in Afghanistan and in Guantanamo Bay, they should be treated consistently with the 1949 Geneva Convention.  That Convention was the fourth such to establish principles for the treatment of enemy soldiers and civilians in wartime. I hope that you will support my call for a United Nations committee to review it, to determine whether further changes are needed concerning armed insurgents and terrorists who do not fall within the traditional definitions and, if not, at least call on the Americans to sign the 1977 amendments to extend protection to guerrillas and combatants, amendments which the US has refused thus far to sign. In his state of the union address, President Bush displayed a shocking belligerence. Just as his environmental policies lead to global warming, so his diplomatic and military policies are pushing the world towards a new cold war. In this century every shot the US fires will indeed, in the words of the poet Emerson, "ring round the world" and unless you can appeal to, and nurture, a wider concept of American self-interest, then we risk the menace of a new military millennium. – Mr President, if the Treaty had been rejected by your countrymen, this week's Council would have been marred by recrimination and disarray. Due in no small part to your efforts, Ireland's 'yes' vote has put us back on track for Europe to be reunited in 2004. The decisions that remain will not be easy. As our esteemed former colleague the President-in-Office has said, decisions involving money rarely are. But the Heads of State and Government must not allow themselves to flunk this historic opportunity by fighting over how to pay the bill. My group believes that enlargement can be financed under the financial arrangements agreed in Berlin. Some shifting between the different headings should be possible, within the overall limits. The final package must guarantee that new Member States will not be net contributors before 2007. Otherwise we will feed resentment and face the risk of more cliff-hanger referenda in the aspirant countries. Inevitably, the major area of disagreement is the common agricultural policy. While the Liberal Group does not regards CAP reform as a precondition for enlargement, it is clear that significant reform of our farm policies is essential to the success of enlargement and also for other reasons. I hear that President Chirac expects the United Kingdom to bring its budget rebate into play, while he refuses to countenance reform of his farm policies before 2006. We support the Commission's proposals to phase in income support to farmers for the new Member States, but we also expect all existing Member States to commit themselves to far-reaching reform of the CAP, as proposed in the mid-term review. The second major area of concern is the readiness of the applicant states to live within the disciplines of the single market and respect the European Union's values. We share the concern expressed in the Commission's progress report about corruption in a number of these countries and the need for progress in implementing EU legislation, particularly in the field of justice and home affairs. That is why it is right that there should be a reinforced monitoring system to ensure that countries fulfil their commitments. The President of the Commission called for enthusiasm and intelligence. Commissioner Verheugen's approach has demonstrated the latter, but a touch more enthusiasm in the Council for enlargement and for the new Europe it heralds would not go amiss. Mr President, President of the Commission, it seems that some of our Member States have been seized by a seven-year itch: it is the irresistible urge to scratch around for the best financial deal for themselves. But in their rush to advance their own interests, the Member States are failing to ask what might constitute the best deal for Europe. Liberal Democrats and Reformers believe that governments should first, as the admirable Mr Colom i Naval has suggested, take a long, hard look at what they have asked the European Union to do, and then give the institutions the resources they need to do the job. Governments should also ruthlessly tackle waste and fraud, most of which occur at national level, and target spending on our priorities to ensure maximum value for money for taxpayers. Britain, France, Germany and three other states have formed an unholy alliance, united only by their zeal to keep down their budget contributions. Even putting aside the wider benefits that the European Union buys, the EU needs a budget consistent with its responsibilities. This year we will integrate ten new Member States. Europe is charged with important new responsibilities abroad, and with the task of keeping us safe from crime and terrorism at home. Reviving growth requires progress on the ambitious reform agenda of Lisbon. Do the six states really expect the EU to do all of this on 1% of Europe's gross national income? With spending set to reach 1.11% of GNI in 2006, a ceiling of 1% in 2007 means not recalibration but cuts. None of these Member States can tell us where the axe will fall. Indeed, I would wager that they cannot even agree among themselves. My warning to Europe's citizens would be : buyer beware! These are the same governments who agreed in 2002 to a 1% annual increase in spending on the common agricultural policy. If Member States demonstrated a real willingness to reform the CAP further, it would be easier to take seriously their calls for parsimony. As it is, we are running this Union on just over 1% of the gross national income of the Member States, when the budget of the Federal Government in the United States is 20% of GNI. We must continue to strive for savings where possible, but also equip the Union to meet the objectives we have set ourselves. My Group believes that the key to better value lies in a modest budget increase, leaving a safe margin for unforeseen expenditure, linked to reform, less waste and more intelligent investment. Not promises of smarter spending from Member States with no will to deliver it. Mr President, we do not have the chance to come back on this debate, and I do not wish to trespass on the goodwill of those in the House. I would simply ask the presidency and the Commission to explain why we should expect Europe's voters to vote for Europe if we do not have the solidarity and the commitment within the Commission and Council to stand up for the rights to which our continent has subscribed. . The Liberal Democrat delegation did not vote with the rest of the ELDR Group on the Schmidt report. We voted against Amendments Nos 1 to 13 and the proposal, as we wished the proposal in its current form to be withdrawn. Our reason for doing so is that we believe VAT on postal services, especially in respect of securing a universal service for packages below two kilogrammes, is a matter best left to national governments under the principle of subsidiarity. However, we remain open to considering future proposals aimed at ensuring greater competition. Mr President, I do not wish to reopen a debate which this Parliament has already had but you were elected on a programme for reform of this House. Powerful elements in the two major groups have blocked that reform and I hope, Mr President, that the Council and the Commission, represented here today, will see the strength of feeling in this House in favour of such reform, greater than it has ever been, and will take that into account. Mr President, I did not accuse the Commissioner of acting like a policeman giving corrupt evidence, I said that his lips were moving faster than those of a policeman giving corrupt evidence. However, I accept that my remark might have appeared insulting and I would therefore like to withdraw it. Mr President, we have decided to refer this matter to the Court of Justice. If we are now to take a vote on the report rejecting the agreement, then we are showing a discourtesy to the Court. If the House were to vote to accept the agreement, then we would be prejudging the Court's judgment. It seems to me quite natural that since we are awaiting the Court's ruling on the matter, we should wait in committee with this report before voting on it. – Mr President, it is important that we, as a House, are not rushed into precipitate action by the activities of a few journalists. As I understand it, this supposed story relates to a memo dated 21 May 2002. The reform process has come a long way since then, under the watchful eye of our Committee on Budgetary Control, which Mr Kinnock will no doubt address on this issue. It seems to us that, taking into consideration the Casaca report which has dealt with many of these issues and the contributions to it, the matter is in fact being dealt with. I understand that the author of the memo referred to, Mr Muis, is due to attend the Committee on Budgetary Control meeting this week and I suggest that members of that committee ask him whether he would write the same kind of memo today as he wrote in May of last year. It would seem that the process has come a long way forward and this is probably a storm in a teacup. – Mr President, Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein poses a real threat. He has used weapons of mass destruction in the past to oppress his own people and in seeking to draw Israel into a wider Middle East war. The international community has a responsibility to stop Iraq developing weapons of mass destruction. Yet the consequences of war are potentially so serious that, for my group, it should be only a last resort. Avoiding war does not mean letting Saddam Hussein off the hook. Those who urge America not to launch a pre-emptive strike against Iraq are not appeasers, as Donald Rumsfeld implies when he compares George W. Bush to Winston Churchill. To my mind that comparison is more absurd than Dan Quayle comparing himself to John F. Kennedy. If I may paraphrase Senator Lloyd Benson I would say 'Donald, George W. Bush ain't no Winston Churchill'! The real lesson of history is this: Churchill correctly identified the Nazi threat at an early stage but when he acted it was not unilaterally and pre-emptively. He drew a line in the sand. He acted with moral authority and international backing when that line was crossed. Churchill did not bomb Berlin and try to overthrow the Nazi regime based on his suspicions of Hitler; he acted in concert with his allies when it was clear that he had right on his side. For the ELDR Group the issue today is about getting United Nations weapons inspectors back into Iraq, not about George W. Bush settling an old family score with Saddam Hussein. The Iraqi Government must comply with UN resolutions and must let weapons inspectors back in unconditionally. Once in, those inspectors must be allowed to go wherever they want, whenever they want. Only if Iraq refuses to readmit inspectors, if it unreasonably obstructs their work or if those inspectors find evidence of Iraq developing weapons of mass destruction would the international community be justified in taking further action. European governments must make clear their support for UN-backed military action in those circumstances. If it comes to war it must be the international community that acts together, not the United States unilaterally. A UN resolution needs to be approved setting a deadline for Iraqi compliance. A broad international coalition must be built and must include Arab countries if we are to convince world opinion that we are not seeking a clash of civilisations. Frankly, as the Commissioner said, our task would be a lot easier if the US showed the same focus on resolving the crisis in the Middle East, as it does on removing Saddam Hussein. We also need to think seriously about how to rebuild stability in the region after any strike. The international coalition, including America, must commit resources to nation-building. Unless we rebuild its economy and society and help to develop viable political institutions, an Iraq devastated by war would risk imploding and posing an even greater danger to the stability of the region. We cannot postpone the debate much longer by claiming that no decisions are imminent. I would say this to the President-in-Office of the Council: Mr Haarder, it is no good saying the European Union's position is clear while referring to a statement of 20 May. The Union's position is as clear as mud. If it were clear, Ambassador Burghardt in Washington would not lament how Member States are jealously guarding their own access to the American Administration rather than acting as a common front. Just as at the UN Summit in Johannesburg, the European Union will have influence only if it acts as a United States of Europe. That is your job. Consensus needs to be built about how to tackle the threat, evidence of weapons of mass destruction needs to be published and – most importantly of all – any strike needs to be backed by international law and the moral authority of the international community. The world cannot afford the instability which would come from a unilateral and pre-emptive military adventure in Iraq. – Mr President, this debate has been quite unsatisfactory and, under the pertinent rule in our Rules of Procedure, I wish to propose to my committee and to the House that we have a resolution to close this debate, to vote on it at our January part-session, and to look at what further action we need to take, given the quite unsatisfactory nature of the responses from the Council and Commission. – Mr President, I have heard it said that there is nothing left for the Greek Presidency, other than providing the after-sales service for Copenhagen. Nothing could be further from the truth. The Greek Presidency will have a key role in the birth of a reformed and enlarged European Union. But to ensure a smooth birth a good midwife is essential and I am pleased to see that the Greek Presidency seems well prepared to play that role. With regard to the reform of the Union, the Convention is due to report in Thessaloniki. As every good midwife knows, it is important to keep pushy relatives out of the delivery room and while the discussions in the Elysée Palace tonight will be important, they must not dictate the outcome of that Convention. It is also important to ensure that the baby is not strangled at birth by Member States fearful of an ambitious constitutional Treaty. I would therefore take issue with the President-in-Office and say we should not have a lengthy interim period. We need a short IGC, which should be a tidying-up exercise to ratify quickly the outcome of the Convention quickly. 2003 will be the year when politicians must sell enlargement to the voters. Nine out of ten of the new countries will have referenda between March and September this year. We need to put far more effort into making the case for a 'yes' vote in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe than we have put recently into convincing citizens in our current Union that Europe is a 'good thing'. Liberal Democrats in this House and beyond are committed to campaigning in the new countries to make sure that we get a 'yes' vote and we call on others to join us. We hope in particular that the Greek Presidency can use its privileged relationship with many on the island of Cyprus to ensure that a united island joins our Union. Time is short, but recent developments, both on the island and in Ankara, have created a window of opportunity and I hope that you, Mr President-in-Office, will work with all parties to craft a compromise. I welcome the generous aspirations that you have expressed today in that regard. If the European Union is to succeed, however, for its current citizens and its new ones, it will need reform. As we approach the third anniversary of the ten-year Lisbon strategy, it has to be said that progress to date on productivity, growth, employment, investment, research and development has been disappointing. The continued economic slow-down is making structural reform more, not less, urgent and governments should not be deflected from the goals they set themselves. It will be important for the presidency to reaffirm commitment to a reformed Stability Pact, to focus on the underlying deficit, to give the Commission the power to issue early warnings to countries in danger. It will also need to stick to the timetable for the Financial Services Action Plan, which has already shown dangerous slippage, and to secure approval of the takeover bids directive. If you want someone to help you along this path, why not give the European Parliament more of a role in the follow-up to the decisions of the Spring Councils, in holding the Council accountable for the decisions that are taken? That is something we would do very well. Europe is of course though far more than a common market and your presidency recognises this. The Amsterdam and Nice Treaties have created a Community of values. I welcome the emphasis in your presidency's statement on the values of a generous, outward-looking and civilised society. You speak in your document of a planned legal immigration policy. Exposed as you are on Europe's southern and eastern flanks, you see the importance of understanding a little more and condemning a little less. The fact is that, as long as we keep out their produce and deprive them of the hope of economic development, we will take the people of the developing countries to the south and the east. We need many of them to deal with the problems of an ageing population here, or the brain drain problems the Commission President referred to. Let us work to close the back door to illegal immigration more effectively by offering legal opportunities to those wishing to settle here and integrating them properly in our society. I had a great deal to say about Iraq and the Middle East peace process as well, but my time is running short. I would, however, say that the Greeks are well acquainted with what we in the rest of Europe understand by the word 'marathon'. You take the baton from the last runner, Denmark, and try and cover as much ground as possible as quickly as possible, before handing it over to the next presidency. We wish you good speed in the marathon that you are running on our behalf. Secretary-General, Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House echo your words on immigration. We recognise the value that immigrants bring to Europe and we understand that closing Europe's front door will only drive the desperate to seek access through the back. Many of us were migrants once upon a time and we know how ill it behoves our generation to shut the gates of mercy on mankind. A Europe of security and justice for all is a Europe that extends those rights to those who justly seek a new life here. Like you, we recognise the political challenge that implies. Your words today remind us of the power of the United Nations to transcend the parochial in us all. The United Nations has a precious power to speak for us all. That is why my Group wishes to see the return of the United Nations to Iraq as soon as the security situation allows. Credible and legitimate democratic government in Iraq is not possible without the presence of the United Nations.  We want a political settlement in Iraq that guarantees the highest standards of civil and political rights for all Iraqis. The United Nations was founded by the same generation who founded this European Union – ‘to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind’. Like this Union it believes that the closer we sit at the table of peace and prosperity, the slower we will be to reach for the tools of war. It is a sorry testament to a stubborn world that the UN still seems such an unlikely experiment in international governance. Winston Churchill once said that the UN is designed not to take us to heaven, but to save us from hell. In order to do that better the UN must reform. As its largest contributors, the EU and its Member States have not only the weight to insist on reform but the responsibility to do so. A mature Europe would find the political will to put behind it an institutional settlement at the UN that leaves power where it lay in 1945. A mature Europe would insist on a permanent membership that reflected the realities of the 21st century. It would accept that the current veto is a tool of obstruction, a privilege that can no longer be justified. Finally, Secretary-General, on behalf of the Liberal Group allow me to pay tribute to the members of your organisation who will not see you take this prize in their name today. Your staff who lost their lives with Sergio Vieira de Mello – including Fiona Watson who was known to me – died defending a vision of national renewal in Iraq that is now our duty. Madam President, I share the views expressed by my colleague, Mr Martin. We would be forgiven for thinking over these last months that Europe has only one transatlantic relationship, so often do we use that term to describe the link between our Union and the United States of America. The Canadian Prime Minister, Pierre Trudeau, once said that living next to America was like 'sleeping with an elephant'. Even its smallest movements were likely to keep you awake at night. Europe's own sensitivity to the movements of the current American elephant can all too easily overshadow our relations with its northern neighbour. The EU-Canada summit is a chance to renew this relationship. The European Union and Canada have a long history of productive cooperation to build on. We share the same views on the best strategy for defeating international terrorism and international organised crime. We are common supporters of NATO, the UN and the ICC. We share a strong commitment to Third World development assistance and environmental protection. Both the EU and Canada have ratified the Kyoto protocols, and led the call for others to do so. The Ottawa Land Mines Convention expresses our joint abhorrence of these weapons and our determination to act. There was a time when Canada sought actively bilateral trading links with Europe as a way of reducing its dependence on trade with the United States. It would be facile to see NAFTA as Canada's surrender to economic destiny. Canadians continue to invest significantly in Europe: almost EUR 65 billion last year. In return, we provide over a quarter of foreign investment in Canada. We take almost 20% of Canada's service-related exports. The Commission's strategy document dwells rightly on the good will which exists between us, but identifies rightly that very little positive action flows from it. We must deliver such action. High level meetings between Canada and the EU have too often lacked clear objectives. This summit should re-launch our relations on much more proactive terms. The presidency has recognised this, in making the negotiation of an ambitious new accord one of the priorities of its tenure. For this reason, it is extraordinary that the President-in-Office of the Council has chosen not to accompany his delegation. I have been told by Canadian diplomats this evening that Mr Berlusconi's tactless decision has led Canada to consider cancelling the summit altogether, or to reschedule it for a European venue earlier in December. Given the importance of this summit and its established place in Europe's diplomatic calendar, Mr Berlusconi has shown an unacceptable willingness to offend our friends in Ottawa. For the second time in as many weeks he has embarrassed the Union, and in this case offended a valuable ally. The ELDR urges strongly that the summit goes ahead in December as planned, preferably in Canada, and in Europe only as a last resort. Even in Mr Berlusconi's absence, this summit must deliver an agreement that takes away regulatory barriers to closer trade and investment. Given the importance of our large store of common North Atlantic values, this summit should assert that Canada and the EU will henceforth cooperate proactively in foreign and security policy and on environmental questions. This means aligning our positions before major international meetings. The summit must also produce concrete proposals for a steering group to assess the future management of our relationship. We need more formal meetings at official and expert level, and a much more focused relationship. As soon as a Constitutional settlement is achieved, the 1976 Framework Agreement with Canada should be updated. In conclusion, it is time to equip our other transatlantic relationship for the new century. Mr President, when Peter the Great wanted to make Russia more Western, he dressed up the Russian aristocracy in Western European clothes and moved the capital of Russia westwards from Moscow to St Petersburg. President Putin's westward-looking government has described the European Union as its 'natural political partner', and until recently Russia has appeared to dress in the clothes of Europe: the clothes of free trade, the clothes of political and civil rights, the clothes of infant democracy. The ELDR Group welcomed this EU-Russia summit. We are right to look for political and economic spaces where our two societies can work together. Under the right circumstances, we welcome closer economic relations between the European Union and Russia. Easier travel is a necessary and important part of making this work. Russia and the Union share a common security environment and a high degree of mutual interdependence, so we are right to seek to make our joint borders more secure and our shared hemisphere more safe. We welcome Russia's ambitions to join the WTO and this may be possible, even if it is made more difficult by recent events. However, Europe is right to rail against Russian repression and governmental meddling in the lives of its neighbours. The issue of Chechnya will not go away, nor will Russia's refusal to ratify Kyoto. It is not enough to wear the clothes of Europe. Closer relations should carry the price of full subscription to modern European values, and at the very least we must continue to be critical and frank. At this summit, Mr President-in-Office, our position was badly compromised by those charged with representing us. The presidency's ill-considered comments on Chechnya and on the arrest and detention of Mikhail Khodorkovsky were out of line. Mr Berlusconi speaks for Europe and he should choose his words with care. His own presidency drafted a declaration last month that was strongly critical of Russian conduct in Chechnya. However, not only was there no reference to Chechnya in the summit communiqué, but the President of the Council even thought it appropriate to contradict Europe's affirmed position with an improvised display of bluster worthy of a cheap lawyer. In any case, why should we deny the difficulties of the Russian minorities in the Baltic states? They are nothing compared to the persecution of the Chechens. Internal security may be complementary to justice and human rights, as the President-in-Office said, but as practised in Chechnya it is not. We have condemned Russian action in Chechnya and the attempt to intimidate sources of political opposition in Russia for good reason. Despite their European clothes, it is not clear that Mr Putin's government shares our values of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and freedom of expression. If it does, why is Mr Khodorkovsky in jail? – Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I would like to congratulate the President-in-Office on the successful conclusion in Copenhagen of an outstanding Danish presidency. It is rare in my experience for a presidency to receive such wide praise from all sides of this House. The improvement in relations between the Council and Parliament has been notable, and we owe much in this regard to the role of our former, much-esteemed colleague, Mr Haarder. The outcome of the summit is a tribute to the negotiating skills of Mr Fogh Rasmussen and the persistence both he and his team displayed. Their decision to focus single-mindedly on enlargement paid off handsomely: Europe can now reunite. However, we must not be complacent. The full application of the Copenhagen criteria, both in the new countries and in the existing Member States, must remain a matter of concern. Moreover, there are referenda to be won in all the new countries – referenda in which each and every one of us can play an important part, if we so choose. Copenhagen offers Bulgaria and Romania the prospect of greater pre-accession aid and the objective of membership in 2007. While these two countries will clearly be in the next wave of enlargement, we should continue to be guided by the principle that each candidate will be judged on its own merits. Liberal Democrats would have preferred an earlier review of Turkey's readiness for accession. However, Turkey is clearly now on the path to membership and, if the Copenhagen criteria are met by the end of 2004, my group will hold the governments to their commitment to open membership negotiations. An agreement on the United Nations plan to reunite Cyprus would have been the icing on the cake of the Copenhagen Council. Nonetheless, we remain optimistic that agreement can be reached so that a united Cyprus can sign the Accession Treaty in April 2004. We hope that Turkey will seize the opportunity to confirm its European vocation by putting pressure on Mr Denktash to reach a compromise. However, celebrations over the historic decision to reunite Europe – and I welcome the very prominent role played by Liberals in the Council, Commission and Parliament, whether those on the benches in front of us apply that label to themselves or not – should not be allowed to overshadow another significant breakthrough at Copenhagen. That was the agreement with Turkey to allow the EU's Rapid Reaction Force to go ahead and have access to Nato's resources. Europe's security and defence ambitions can now be put to the test as the EU takes over Operation Amber Fox in Macedonia. This may pave the way for more ambitious missions in the future, including peace-enforcement operations in accordance with the UN Charter. A wider Europe must be prepared to shoulder its responsibilities in the world, whether in the Middle East – I congratulate the Council on its firm declaration on that conflict – or elsewhere. We must be a bulwark for freedom and democracy and a force for justice. In building that strength, we owe much to Denmark. . – Mr President, we have spoken much in recent weeks about the enlargement of the European Union. That enlargement extends our borders to Russia, to Ukraine and Belarus – it is hardly surprising if issues of border control and immigration policy are centre stage. But when it comes to immigration, no country is an island. A real debate is needed at European level, and not the kind of distasteful sloganeering that we suffered at the Seville European Council. As a policy issue, immigration is simple. Unless we open our markets to goods from poorer countries, thus helping their people to prosper, we will take their people. And unless we set our own immigration policy, either anarchy will reign or – more worryingly – criminal gangs of human traffickers will set that policy for us. What a pity that our governments did not listen a little more carefully to the advice of the Canadian Government about how, if we wished to get on top of the trafficking in people, we should open our front door a little to legal migration, in order to close our back door more effectively against illegal migration. I congratulate Commissioner Vitorino on the proposals that he brought forward a couple of years ago at the beginning of this whole debate. I deeply regret that Member States did not adopt them as proposed. The debate has been dominated by the repressive aspects of migration policy and has shown scant regard for its humanitarian aspects. The strategy has hardly been one of small steps as the Commissioners suggested – one of ‘faltering feet’ is perhaps a better description. I had the honour of chairing the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs in this House for the first two years of that discussion. I regret not only the EU’s failure to establish effective and complete policies on immigration and asylum, but also its failure to ensure responsible stewardship of our economy which is intimately linked with immigration. The Commission’s review of the European economy in 2002 shows the devastating economic consequences of stagnating population growth, which could lead to the rate of potential economic growth falling by 1% of GDP per annum for the next 50 years. What should we do? Well, exhortations to procreation have never been known to work. The evidence suggests that the higher our living standards become, the less people will want to have children. So for economic reasons too, we need a mature debate about a policy of managed migration. I hope that this afternoon’s debate will contribute to achieving some joined-up thinking on immigration policy. I have been asked to report on the readmission agreement with Hong Kong. I regret that Parliament has been neither consulted nor kept informed during the negotiations on this readmission agreement, that we find ourselves in the position of having to deliver our opinion after the agreement has been initialled – and, moreover, after the Agriculture Council on 23 December adopted the decision authorising its signing. According to Rule 97 of our Rules of Procedure, throughout the negotiations – and here I quote: ‘The Commission and the Council shall inform the committee responsible regularly and thoroughly of the progress of the negotiations’. I deplore the fact that did not happen, all the more so because this is the first readmission agreement negotiated by the Community. In the case of future agreements, I ask that Parliament be kept informed about the state of negotiations by the Commission and the Council. Readmission is about the return of persons found irregularly on our territory. Few in this House would deny the need for a policy of return. It is an integral part of any credible immigration policy. Effective return safeguards the integrity of asylum policies and of regular immigration programmes and it acts as a deterrent to irregular migration. Return has risen to prominence essentially because of the way in which our over-stretched asylum systems are being used as alternatives to a closed-door immigration policy. When the Council adopted its return action programme at the end of last month, I am sure it took into account the many advantages of assisted voluntary return, as well as the possibility of forced return. The advantage of assisted voluntary return is that it permits return in a non-punitive and a cost-effective way. It has been shown to work in Germany, in the United Kingdom, in the Netherlands and in Belgium. It is more convenient and it is less costly, both financially and politically, than deportation. It has been almost exclusively a European phenomenon and we need more research on the sustainability of return under AVR programmes. But our policy needs to be rational, driven not by prejudice, but by a sober assessment of our needs. It must be carried out by governments who ought to resist the temptation sometimes to deport in order to seek approval from the mob. That policy must also address gender and health issues which are vital in this debate. The readmission agreement on which I have been asked to report is the first readmission agreement that the Community is entering into. I share the Commissioner’s appreciation of the willingness of the Hong Kong authorities to negotiate this with us. There is a danger that today’s debate will be confused with a debate on Hong Kong tomorrow which reflects concern about the implementation of Article 23 of the Basic Law. Some may argue that Hong Kong is not a safe country. I accept the assurance given on 10 December by Donald Tsang, Hong Kong’s Chief Secretary, when he gave his personal guarantee about the free flow of information and the freedom of speech remaining essential characteristics of Hong Kong society. Nor have I any doubt that the Hong Kong administration is competent to administer a readmission agreement. Moreover the agreement itself refers to international commitments to the protection of vulnerable persons. However, what concerns me about this agreement is that it is the first in what will be a series of such agreements. Authorisation has already been given for the negotiation of such agreements with many countries – some of them have even been initialled. The fact is that some of those agreements will be far harder than this one. Therefore, I would ask the Commission this afternoon to clarify a number of issues. The first concerns the scale of voluntary and forced repatriation promoted by the Member States, the categories of people involved and their countries of origin. Are the measures that Member States have adopted adequate and effective? Since this House is also very concerned to ensure that the policies of return and the readmission agreements we negotiate respect fundamental rights, I would also ask how the Commission proposes to ensure that the rights of individuals are respected in the event of repatriation, especially if this occurs on a large scale. Is the Commission sure that the readmission agreements it is proposing are compatible with our obligations under international refugee law? Will the Commission commit itself to establishing joint monitoring mechanisms with the countries with which we make readmission agreements? The House would like answers to all these questions. I would also like to know why the European Parliament is never mentioned in the Commission’s communication on a Community return policy. I would like clarification as to which coherent and transparent financial instrument will be used for the return policy in question and readmission agreements in particular. The role of the European Parliament as one arm of the budgetary authority is clearly important in this, and I would be interested to know whether we will, from a financial point of view, need a new legal base for this policy. The human rights clause in the readmission agreement used for Hong Kong is not strong enough to protect us against all eventualities in such agreements with other countries. We should recognise that, while concluding the agreement with Hong Kong was a relatively easy matter, as we were able to offer them visa-free access to the EU in return, cutting a deal with countries such as Russia and Morocco will be not a whit as easy. We will need to provide incentives for many third countries to cooperate with us, rather than threatening them with economic sanctions, as Mr Blair and Mr Aznar proposed in Seville. That is why I welcome the Commission’s recent communication on integrating migration issues into the Union’s external relations policy. If we join up the dots between this paper, our development policy, the negotiations on readmission and our economic need for immigration, we will be demonstrating the joined-up thinking we so urgently require in immigration and asylum policy. Mr President, I would advise Mrs Banotti to follow the advice once given to me by the Station Master at Crianlarich, when I pointed out to him that the two clocks, one on each platform, showed different times. He replied, 'What good would it be having two clocks if they both told the same time?'  *** – Mr President, this is not a just war. Liberal Democrats have consistently argued in this House that war would be justified only as a last resort, if inspections had failed and if it were explicitly authorised by the UN Security Council. We prefer the force of argument to the argument of force. Nonetheless, much as we abhor Saddam Hussein's regime, we deeply regret that as we breakfasted in Brussels the bombs were falling on Baghdad. I hope, for the sake of the Iraqi people and for the sake of our troops doing their duty as professional soldiers, that this war will be as swift and as bloodless as possible. In the absence of UN legitimacy and moral authority there is a duty on the countries prosecuting this war to do so in a way that is consistent with international norms and conventions. That means not using disproportionate force, not using the cluster bombs that drop small mines around the place, not using the incapacitating gas such as that used in the theatre in Moscow, not using the devastating MOAB bomb where air burst and mushroom clouds caused mass destruction. They might also take care not to litter the Iraqi desert with depleted uranium.  Once this war is over it will be imperative that the United States and the United Kingdom shoulder their responsibilities in rebuilding rapidly a peaceful, stable and prosperous Iraq for the inhabitants who have suffered so terribly under our sanctions regime. This will require the lifting of sanctions and immediate humanitarian aid. It means uniting the different communities of Iraq and the building of stable institutions to secure the future. Beyond that, they also need to establish a criminal tribunal for the crimes of the Iraqi regime and they must give back control of the oil fields to the Iraqi people. If those countries can bring the same conviction and determination to the solution of the Israeli-Palestine conflict and the same zeal to eliminating their own weapons of mass destruction, as they demand of the Iraqis, then we might make progress. It is important that the US does not act unilaterally in deciding the fate of Iraq. Once this war is over, the European Union must be a standard bearer for humanitarian values. We must be broadminded and generous and assume fully our responsibilities in the rebuilding of Iraq. This is not the moment to haggle with the USA over the cost of reconstruction. Europe must play its part with no hidden agenda. As our heads of state and government meet this weekend they must discuss how we can limit the economic fallout of the war for Europe's economy, how the ECB can stand ready to act swiftly to restore confidence in our currency if needed, and how governments can show a renewed commitment to the reforms needed to revive Europe's economy. They must also discuss, and be prepared to discuss when the crisis is over, why Europe has failed over Iraq. It could yet be that this crisis will prove a turning point if our heads of state and government finally accept the need for a common foreign policy and a single EU seat at the UN Security Council, because Europe's troubled tribalism means that Washington wins the day. If there is a lesson to be learned from this crisis in London, Paris, Berlin and Madrid, it is that if we had a common foreign and security policy our world view would prevail. Mr President, this House has discussed on a number of occasions the matter of the Commission's proposed agreements with the United States. The House has expressed its own willingness to reach agreement with the United States on exchange of data on air passengers in a proper international agreement, to be approved by Congress and by this House, to ensure that we get the right balance between data protection and an effective fight against terrorism. The Commission is deeply divided on this matter, and is unable even to claim adequacy because it does not know about the circumstances in which the Americans can refer data to third countries. We are seeking the advice of the Court of Justice on whether this is compatible with our own laws and our own Treaties. I advise this House to think very carefully and to refer it to the Court. – Mr President, I congratulate the President-in-Office on his speech and wish him well with his agenda. Mr Prodi has outlined the scale of the challenges we face and the measures that are needed; yet it seems to me that if the Union's backbone were as strong as its wishbone this debate might not be necessary. The list of unresolved economic reform issues on the agenda for the Spring Council makes depressingly familiar reading. A year ago, ahead of the Barcelona European Council, which one government dubbed the 'make or break summit' for economic reform, the Union was deadlocked over fundamental issues such as the Community Patent, the Take-over Bids Directive and the Pensions Directive. Ministers were at sixes and sevens over the Stability Pact, having failed to issue early warnings to Germany and Portugal. Resolving these issues was proclaimed to be the foremost objective of the heads of state and government. So how much progress have we made, one year on? On the Community Patent, which Mr Prodi mentioned - no progress. The best gloss that you can put on the new Take-over Bids Directive is that it is 'a work in progress'. Far from improving the situation, the Pensions Directive could actually represent a step backwards if adopted in the form currently advocated by Parliament's rapporteur. And Germany and Portugal have since been joined by France in the rogues' gallery of countries which are falling foul of the Stability Pact. In the midst of this litany of failure, in step Messrs Blair, Chirac and Schröder with another depressing example of letterbox diplomacy. After highlighting Europe's divisions on Iraq with the 'gang of 8' letter, the UK's Prime Minister has now formed a terrible trio of leaders with Mr Chirac and Mr Schröder, who presume to tell other leaders how to reform their economies while blocking economic progress themselves. To hear a clarion call for economic reform from a British Prime Minister whose continued indecision over joining the euro is hitting jobs, growth and investment, is more than a little galling. For the President of France to put his name to a letter calling for the rapid completion of the internal market, when France tops the charts for failure to implement single market legislation, is little short of breathtaking. And to be lectured on the need for Europe to reform labour markets and increase employment by a Chancellor who has presided over record levels of unemployment in Germany, really takes the biscuit. Perhaps a little humility from those three leaders is called for when it comes to economic reform. We are in the third year of the ten-year Lisbon plan to improve competitiveness. The truth is that progress has been disappointing. The keys to higher employment levels and sustainable growth lie in sound public finances, a dynamic private sector, the completion of the single market, a real European research area and incentives for work, skill and innovation. My group would emphasise in particular the importance of completing the financial services action plan, fostering entrepreneurship and promoting flexibility and adaptability in the labour market. We must also increase the participation of women, immigrants, older workers and disabled people in the labour market, and adapt tax and benefit systems to make work pay. These are the challenges we face and we have only seven years left it we are to achieve our goal of making Europe the most competitive, dynamic, knowledge-based economy in the world. Instead of setting new bold targets, the heads of state and government should get on with the job of closing the existing 'delivery gap' between their words and their actions. . – Madam President, it is a matter of regret and perhaps even of shame that it took the events of 11 September to push European governments into tackling effectively a problem which has plagued our continent for over a generation. In 1997 in Amsterdam, and again in 1999 in Tampere in Finland, the Heads of State and Government committed themselves to tackling terrorism. Our review of progress early this year showed that they had done nothing about it, which was why we as a Parliament brought forward a report calling on them to take action. The events of 11 September have fortunately brought such action and I look forward to travelling to Washington shortly to talk about common action between the European Union and the United States of America. I would like to thank the political groups in this House for their cooperation in drawing up this report, particularly the Members from Spain. In my report, I broadly welcome the Commission proposals for a Council framework decision on combating terrorism and for a European arrest warrant. The amendments which I put forward seek to restrict the list of crimes defined as terrorist crimes and covered by the European arrest warrant to the most serious cross-border criminal offences, and if I may quote Amendment No 16, it specifies those crimes "which aim to destroy the fundamental freedoms, democracy, respect for human rights, civil liberties and the rule of law on which our societies are based". We seek too to insert safeguards for civil liberties by basing action clearly on international human rights documents, by reinforcing the principle of , by taking account of time spent in detention awaiting trial and by allowing Member States refusal to extradite when there are manifestly sound reasons for doing so, including in those cases where a person found guilty could face a penalty of death. Moreover, we seek to provide aids to victims of terrorism and their families. I shall ask the House to accept one amendment, which was submitted after the deadline and which takes account of the most recent developments in Council. One Member State is threatening to block progress towards a European arrest warrant. There is a method – not one which I recommend – but one which may be needed , in order to press ahead, and that is to invoke Article 40 of the Treaty allowing reinforced cooperation between a certain number of Member States. Terrorism is a supranational challenge and calls for a supranational response. We cannot allow the blockage of one Member State to prevent common action in fighting it. When we met in this Chamber, on 12 September, we had a debate in which I remember Mr Poettering and many others said that we were all Americans. Since then, we have discovered that we must first be Europeans. We acknowledge that recognition of judicial judgements and judicial standards requires trust in each other's systems, but not blind trust, and for that reason I have put forward an amendment calling for urgent measures to improve judicial systems in our Member States, to encourage benchmarking, to encourage exchange of best practice. The process of creating an area of freedom, security and justice is similar to that of creating the single market, but it is more urgent and, moreover, we are dealing not with the freedom of movement of goods, services or capital, but with the freedom of people. The Greens and other political groups are saying, don't go ahead until you are sure that everybody's judicial standards are perfect. Majority opinion, however, on the Committee recognises that the scope of the challenge we face and the historical imperative are such that we must press ahead with these measures with prudence, and with vigilance, but also with determination. We must ensure effective action against terrorists and yet we must not deny legitimate political expression of grievances. I was surprised to read in El País this morning an interpretation of one amendment, which I support, that it would outlaw Herri Batasuna. I do not interpret the amendment in this way, nor would such an amendment be necessary to target those involved in supporting terrorist acts. Other provisions in what we are proposing do that. I would say to colleagues, and particularly to our Spanish colleagues, that in our determination to tackle terrorism, we must acknowledge that terrorists sometimes express political grievances, and that these require a political response. Council is discussing the proposals put forward by the Commission; Parliament, which desperately needs powers of codecision, may be reconsulted on this matter. We are determined to assist governments in their work and yet maintain the delicate balance between the security needs of our citizens and preservation of their democratic freedoms. In this, cooperation in Justice and Home Affairs has received quite a boost. Whatever it was that we planned at Amsterdam, the paradox is that events are what drives Europe forward: just as Mr Haider's election led us to adopt effective legislation against racism and xenophobia, so it may be that Mr bin Laden has done much for European Union integration. May I say, finally, what a pleasure it is to see you as a fellow Liberal Democrat in the Chair in this session. I wish you a successful debate. – Mr President, my group believes that this amendment should not fall even if Amendment No 24 is adopted. Mr President, I congratulate Mrs Boogerd-Quaak on an excellent report. It is perfectly possible to be both tough on terrorism and true to the Treaties that we have signed on individual freedoms such as privacy. This matter has taken a sorry course. Commission Bolkestein told us on 9 September that progress on the issues had been disappointing. Commissioner Patten has told us tonight that data transfers remain a matter of concern for the Commission. The fact is that there is no real agreement between the European Union and the United States on the scope of data required, on purpose limitation, on data storage periods or on the transfer of data to third countries. In proposing this amendment, the College of Commissioners should be ashamed of itself. Its proposals would do justice to the authors of the United Kingdom's Official Secrets Act of 1911. Commissioner Patten, you normally address this House in an open style, almost ad-lib. That is something we welcome. Tonight you read carefully from your script; dare I say with your lips moving faster than those of a policeman giving corrupt evidence. You constructed a quasi-legal case that is no more stable than a house of cards. You can hardly be surprised that you face criticism from all sides of this House. The Commissioner told us there is no reason for Parliament to reject the entire agreement. The fact is that we are not even being offered the chance to do so. Despite Commissioner Bolkestein's assurance on 9 September that the procedure would involve the European Parliament's assent, as required by Article 300 of the Treaty, neither this Parliament nor national parliaments are being given the chance to comment on this. This is a disgraceful demonstration of Europe's democratic deficit. We therefore call on the Commission to withdraw this agreement and to replace it with a proper international agreement. Failing that we will have to refer the matter to the European Court of Justice. – Colleagues will recall that we dealt with this matter in urgent procedure in October. I am pleased to be able to report that the Council has now accepted the legal base that was being proposed. However, we would contest the fact that neither of the two appendices is attached to the proposal, although we understand the reasons why. Nonetheless, we discussed this in committee last night and we recognise the urgency. We would propose an urgent procedure without report. It would then be up to the political groups to put forward amendments, which might be similar to those we adopted in October. . – Mr President, this is a rather strange debate today. Different reports have been put together into an omnibus debate. My report deals with the question of security at summits of the European Union and similar international gatherings and it looks also at the question of citizens' rights. It is important that when Parliament looks at problems that affect the Union, it must do so without victimising individual countries. Just as my recent report on terrorism sought to be a generic report and not one that referred exclusively to the situation in the Basque country in Spain, so this report sets out also to be a generic report and not one that seeks to be particularly critical of any one country. We have seen violent protests at summits in EU countries – in Nice, Gothenburg and Genoa. Such protests have been serious, in the last instance resulting in a death. My report has been drawn up in my capacity as chairman of the Committee on Citizens' Rights and Freedoms, Justice and Home Affairs and I am pleased to say that it has enjoyed a wide consensus in that committee. I thank my colleagues for the work they have put into it and recommend that they adopt the report as it stands, and vote against the 30 amendments which have been submitted, which seem to me to relate to issues that have already been dealt with in committee. In looking at the problems of violence that we have seen, the European Union must understand the causes of such violent protest and seek to prevent it. There seem to me to be two requirements in this. The first is that we must improve political dialogue on the right to peaceful assembly and to peaceful protest. The second is that we must find a firm, but proportionate, response to criminal behaviour by demonstrators. I note that in Sweden and in Italy judicial proceedings have followed from the violent protests that we saw. The European Union, too, needs to look at whether citizens' rights have been violated, particularly in reference to Article 6 (1) and to Article 7 of our treaties. It must be recalled that Article 7 was strengthened by the European Council in Nice, which instructed the European institutions to monitor the application of fundamental rights even where there is simply a risk of a violation of them. In carrying out such surveillance, institutions must be guided by the European Charter on Fundamental Rights. Hence my report seeks to begin such a study of what has happened and look at whether we have in all cases abided by our commitments. When hundreds of thousands of people representing NGOs and church groups gather on the streets to express their concern and choose to do so at a series of international meetings, it is not just a coincidence. It demands an appropriate response and, indeed, a political response. We must avoid a situation where no answer is given because a society where citizens are afraid of their institutions – and perhaps more importantly institutions are afraid of their citizens – makes for a very weak democracy. In this context I welcome the démarche taken by Mr Guy Verhofstadt in seeking to engage in dialogue with civil society, in advance of the meetings that have been held under the Belgian Presidency. This approach needs to be complemented by a White Paper dealing with globalisation, looking at the European Union's position as a major actor in an area for which the Union is directly responsible and perhaps bringing together a number of Commissioners from different disciplines to look at a global strategy for the European Union. We must look at Article 33 of the Treaty, which gives Member States the task of ensuring the maintenance of law and order, and see whether the responses have been appropriate. The weakness in cooperation between the Member States' law and order authorities is a fundamental weakness of the Union. I hope that we will be able to examine this in the context of the creation of a European area of freedom, security and justice. Our citizens must know that they will receive the same treatment from authorities and enjoy the same rights under the law, whichever country they are in and wherever they are exercising their democratic rights. Mr President, political murder is a heinous crime in darkness: it is even more chilling in daylight. Mr Chea Vichea, trade unionist and member of the Cambodian opposition, was shot and killed on January 22, beside the road in Phnom Penh, in the middle of the day. So brazen was his killer, that passers-by mistook the bullets for firecrackers. Mr Vichea is the fifth member of the opposition Alliance of Democrats to have been murdered in 2004, and the latest victim of a year of violence. His funeral brought into the streets a crowd estimated at 30 000 strong. I know why, having met Mr Vichea last April and been deeply impressed by his commitment to democracy and good government and improving the lives of his fellow citizens. Mr Vichea was a founding member of the Sam Rainsy Party. He was a committed advocate of the rights of Cambodia's 200 000 garment workers. His killing, along with that of activists from the Funcinpec party, adds to a temper of political intimidation in Cambodia that is worsened by the failure of the caretaker government to respond to these murders. Whether the Cambodian People's Party is responsible for these killings or not, its persistent failure to apprehend and punish the killers leaves it accountable for the rising tide of fear in Cambodian politics. Hun Sen's government continues to rule Cambodia without full legal and constitutional authority. It is imperative that a negotiated settlement be reached to enable legitimate government, yet negotiations cannot take place in the shadow of political murder, which sours attempts to construct a viable coalition and threatens to provoke retaliatory violence. The European Parliament must condemn not only this killing, but also the climate of intimidation and impunity that Cambodian authorities allow to persist. Our resolution calls for the suspension of all non-humanitarian aid to Cambodia and for the European Commission to refuse to deal with Hun Sen's government. The EU should not do business with a government that fails to safeguard the lives of democratic leaders. In conclusion, we call on the Council to issue strong words of condemnation. – Mr President, the war with Iraq inevitably overshadowed the Council's important economic reform agenda. It is only natural that, at such a time, economic issues should take second place to matters of life and death. However, given the negative economic impact that the conflict could have on the Union's economy, we must not take our eyes off the ball and let the economic reforms that are needed to revitalise our economy fall further behind. So before turning to the conflict with Iraq, I will say a few words about economic reform. The truth is that the process of economic reform is running into the sand; with the European Union set to enlarge to 25 countries, we will have to run just to stand still. I should like to cite just three examples. First, at 1.9% of GDP, our investment in research and development is well below levels in the USA and Japan, and with only two of the accession countries spending more than 1% of GDP on research and development, we will be hard pressed to reach the 3% Lisbon target by 2010. My second example is taken from the Barcelona Council, where Europe's leaders committed themselves to cutting the percentage of single market laws not yet implemented to less than 1.5% – instead, the proportion rose last year to over 2%. As the incoming Member States will naturally face some teething problems in implementing law in the early years, this implementation deficit is in danger of growing further if we do not redouble our efforts. Progress will certainly not be achieved if others emulate the tactics used by Mr Berlusconi in his shameful attempt to defend illegal milk subsidies at the expense of a deal on the taxation of savings. That hardly augurs well for the Italian presidency. And third: raising levels of employment. It is impressive that we managed to create half a million jobs last year despite the economic slowdown. But the scale of the task ahead becomes clear when we note that unemployment in the EU as a whole rose last year to nearly 8%. On the issue of jobs, the Council appears to have followed the age-old practice: ‘If in doubt, create a task force’. I wish Wim Kok well in his work, but it is hard to see what answers he can come up with which are better than the tried and trusted recipe of reducing the burden of taxes on labour and increasing market flexibility. On Iraq, I welcome the forward-looking nature of the European Council conclusions, brokered by the President-in-Office, and their focus on humanitarian assistance, on rebuilding Iraq and the central role to be played in this by the United Nations. Humanitarian aid must get through. We see from the situation in Basra just how important that is. The horror transmitted through our television screens shows us just how necessary it is to get our relief agencies in and working. I welcome Mr Prodi's proposal for EUR 3 million of immediate humanitarian aid through the Red Cross. Liberal Democrats will support the rapid approval by our House of your request for the release of a further EUR 70 million from the emergency budget reserve. The EU has been damaged by the divisions of recent weeks. This could presage a new effort to heal the political wounds, but it is hard not to agree with the Luxembourg Prime Minister when he says that problems cannot be resolved unless they are discussed. I agree with the Council that we need to strengthen transatlantic relations. Our dialogue must be extended to cover reform of the United Nations and the role of international law, but the United States must accept that nothing durable can be established without institutions and rules. My group also welcomes Belgium's proposal for a ministerial meeting on North Korea. If the situation in Iraq had been discussed at the Seville Summit – as Mr Verhofstadt proposed – we might not be at sixes and sevens today. We must wait and see whether 2003 is an  or an  for the European Union, but since we are now in the Year of the Goat, I would congratulate the Greek Presidency on its tenacity, persistence and determination in pushing through its agenda. – Mr President, on a point of order, I wish to ask whether you can confirm whether the reindeer were on the ground or in the air at the time. c – Madam President, last night two requests were referred to my committee under Rule 112. These relate to re-consultation on two framework decisions from the Council, one on combating terrorism, the other on a proposal for a European arrest warrant. We were asked to treat these as a matter of urgency. My committee met this morning and agreed to propose to the plenary that we agree to urgency for these texts as submitted without report. – Mr President, I am grateful to have the opportunity to respond at the end of the debate. Members have raised very interesting points. I hope that the President-in-Office of the Council will have taken careful note and will be keen to take on board as many of them as he can. Until recently relations between Parliament and the Council were not extensive, but a combination of an increase in the powers of this House and the prospect of an increase in the number of Member States has had the effect of bringing our two institutions much closer together. On behalf of the Liberal Group I welcome this closer working relationship between Parliament and the Council. We see it very publicly, particularly in the Convention, and also in the number of very successful negotiations through the codecision process. I welcome the approach taken, first by the Danish Presidency and now continued by the Greek Presidency, to much closer working relations with this House, shown in the President-in-Office's concern that a statute for Members should form part of the successful reform of the European Union institutions. We look forward to working closely with you. – Six months on from the tragic events of 11 September, now must be the time to reassert the need for effective global governance. While I welcome the Commissioner's statement, I regret the fact that the Commission's work has not been more balanced – recognising, for example, that there is a dark side to globalisation, too – and has not been more ambitious. Why did the Commission not take up Mr Verhofstadt's suggestion that we should have a G8 not based on wealth and composed of the richest nations, but based on population and composed of the world's major regional bodies, thereby involving the African Union, Mercosur, the South Asian Area of Regional Cooperation (SAARC) and so on? Globalism has led to a world of interconnected communities. Technology and language learning have transformed our ability to communicate. Trade and investment have changed our economic perspectives and vastly increased our wealth. Travel has opened up new horizons and new opportunities for human contact. And yet all this has not come without a cost, because criminals have organised themselves into global networks; humankind's damage to our natural environment threatens the future viability of life on our planet; and powerlessness and alienation are restricting opportunities for far too many to develop their own abilities and to improve the lot of themselves and their families. History, Mr President, suggests that if the world were truly a global village, many more would be shocked by the misery of the poor. Of 6 billion human beings, half are living on less than EUR 2 per day and 800 million are going to sleep hungry every night. I say, therefore, to our friends on the Right that yes, the market economy, if intelligently regulated, is the most powerful instrument known to mankind to lift people out of poverty. That we have not yet learned to use it properly, however, is shown by financial crises, by environmental degradation and by the continued spread of preventable disease. Moreover, our failure to reach 0.7% of GDP in development aid is depriving the poor of EUR 100 billion per annum. I say to the Left that we need to reform our trade policies because aid and debt relief for developing countries without access to our markets can be nothing more than a palliative. To the Greens I would say that access to scientific progress is also important. It is the key to better nutrition, to improved health and life expectancy and to rising living standards. We must not starve the developing world of the benefits of innovation. The challenge to humankind is to establish effective instruments of international government. The United Nations, the international financial institutions, NATO, etc. have not succeeded as much as they should. Yet, in the European Union we may have a model for wider global governance. We need from our current leaders vision and commitment such as that shown by the founders of the Union. It involves the self-confidence to engage with the world economic forum, the world social forum and others and the self-confidence to say to our friends in the United States that their legitimate sense of vulnerability after 11 September should not lead them in a unilateralist direction – whether in matters relating to military or economic security, the environment or fighting crime. Global problems require global solutions. – Mr President, the reason this motion and this debate are on our agenda is due to the insistence of the Christian Democrats and Conservatives in the PPE-DE, and the Socialists and Social Democrats in the PSE. There is no need for us to have this debate today. My group is in favour of equal conditions for all Members in a Members' Statute but this motion makes it harder and more difficult for us to achieve such a statute. If the motion proposed by Mr Barón Crespo and Mr Poettering is adopted, it will block progress in our discussions with the Council. Those two gentlemen gave you a mandate for exploratory discussions with Council and yet their parties now want to force a vote on Mr Rothley's opinion before giving Parliament the chance to consider the outcome of your discussions. Mr Rothley's opinion wants to include in the Members' Statute issues of primary law such as immunities and privileges which require ratification by national parliaments. The message about reform that they are sending to the Council is ‘take it or leave it’. The message that they are sending to MEPs who want reform is ‘forget it’. My party's joint resolution with the GUE/NGL and Verts/ALE Groups calls for a common statute, agreed with national governments in the Council, giving equality of treatment to MEPs and transparency in our allowances. Our question to individual members of the PPE-DE and the PSE, many of whom will be laughing all the way to the bank if they stop reform, is this: have you no self-respect? Have you no concern for the reputation of this House? I am accused in Mr Rothley's press release of being unserious, of making dishonest accusations. Mr Rothley, I take seriously the accusations of dishonesty made by citizens against us. Mr Barón Crespo accuses me of heaping invective on the socialists. If I am heaping invective on you, Mr Barón Crespo, why are so many of your members, including all of your British members, going to support our motion in the vote tomorrow? The answer is that you heap invective on yourselves and you deserve it. Moreover, you heap invective on those of us who recognise the public concern, who admit that the expenses regime is unjustifiable and who seek to introduce the highest standards into the management of this House. Mr President, we abuse the taxpayer at our peril and we demean democratic politics through not reforming. In calling on Members to support the resolution put forward by three groups, I call on them to reject the description of politicians put forward in the words of the poet, Hilaire Belloc, when he wrote: ‘With pomp and ridiculous display, The Politician's corpse was borne away, While those around him carped and slanged, I wept: I would have seen him hanged.’ – Mr President, the Commissioner has very helpfully outlined the major challenges that enlargement will bring – challenges such as the problems of Kaliningrad, of the Beneš Decrees, of Cyprus; and he has talked a lot about the cost of enlargement. I am, however, very pleased that the President-in-Office drew attention to the cost of non-enlargement, which is by far the greater. It may well be true, as the President-in-Office said, that for us these countries will have waited a "mere" 15 years to join the Union. To them, however, those 15 years will seem more than half as long again as the decade that Spain waited to come into our Union. I believe it is incumbent upon us to do all we can to speed up the process of enlargement. The first step in that process is in the hands of the Presidency this week as the Council meets in Barcelona. President, you have emphasised that we have a responsibility for reuniting our divided continent. We must welcome those who wish to join us as soon as they are ready. But it is not primarily a budgetary question: there are tremendous economic benefits to be gained, and that is where Barcelona comes in; for we need to have the courage to undertake ourselves the difficult economic reforms which we rightly expect of the applicant states. This means, in Barcelona, agreeing important economic reforms, finding the way towards reform of the common agricultural policy, and moving towards reforms of our institutions. The Heads of State and Government must not fudge the opportunity of real economic reform in Barcelona. We must open up the markets for gas and electricity, both wholesale and domestic, by 2005 at the latest. We must recommit ourselves to the package of legislative measures in the financial services action plan, unblocking discussions in the Council. We must also see progress on public procurement and a European patent. If we are to fulfil our objective of staying within the financial perspectives, enlargement must also mean reform of the common agricultural policy. The over-production and waste which characterise the CAP and the worrying consequences for public health of intensive farming methods must be dealt with as we move towards a modern rural development policy, breaking the link with production and creating an environmentally sustainable policy providing aid to our farmers. The prospect of enlargement also requires us to make a success of the Convention. Our institutions and our decision-making procedures are like a Trabant, when what we need is a Mercedes. We need to design a constitutional settlement for the Union of the 21st century which goes beyond Nice, which is based on common rights and values, which addresses the legitimate concerns of our citizens, combining accountability, democracy and efficiency. Here, above all, what is called for is a responsible approach from our Member States. It is not helpful for financial discipline if the Italian Finance Minister questions the finances of enlargement. It is damaging, when a Community of 25 or 27 will need a strong Executive in the Commission, if the Head of Government of one of our large Member States accuses the Commission of a bias against his country, of wanting to smash the culture of one of his industrial producers, and of singling out his country. If we are to insist on a responsible approach from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, then we need a more responsible approach ourselves. I hope that as we move towards the Danish Presidency later this year and the historic decisions on enlargement, we will see a responsible, united and purposeful Western Europe welcoming these new democracies into the democratic fold. Mr President, I congratulate the Commissioner on having brought the accession countries to a stage where fewer than 40 serious concerns were raised out of the 140 elements of the . Most of those concerns are in the area of health and food legislation, or of public administration. Without making light of the concerns, is the Commissioner confident that the obstacles can be overcome by next May? Moreover, on Bulgaria and Romania, a clear difference is emerging. I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he will give the clear signal that Sofia has asked for on the Union's final requirements, and whether he will be tough with the Romanians on the very substantial progress that Romania still has to make. I welcomed the Commissioner's remarks on Turkey. The reforms of Prime Minister Erdogan's government are real and must be welcomed. They must be fully implemented; Commissioner, you are right to demand more, particularly regarding political rights and Cyprus. But let us acknowledge Turkey's very strident steps forward and I hope that the Commission will commit itself to finding all of the resources possible for working with Turkey to help it towards membership. – Mr President, I know that the President-in-Office, a highly respected former colleague in this House, will take back our views to the General Affairs Council. There may be no consensus among the Member States, but there is broad consensus in this House. Since the end of the Gulf War, our strategy has been one of containment and deterrence. To change that strategy, we need compelling evidence that our objectives in the regions would be better served by military strikes. Even with such evidence, military action should not be undertaken without clear and realistic political objectives and a commitment to finance and administer the necessary reconstruction. To win a war against terrorism in one country, you need broad consensus of support in that country. To win a war against terror across borders, we need to build a consensus across borders. The Council must unite, either to agree such objectives, to make such a commitment, to build such a consensus, or to rein in the declared ambitions of the United States. Mr President-in-Office, an opinion poll by the German Marshall Fund and the Council on Foreign Relations shows that two European citizens in three support the Union acting in this way. We in this debate are urging you to seize the initiative. – Mr President, Commission President Mr Prodi described the Stability and Growth Pact last week as 'stupid, like all decisions which are rigid'. Commissioner Lamy is also on record as having described the pact as 'medieval'. Aside from the questionable wisdom of using such strong language, especially to a newspaper from the country which is doing the most damage to what remains of the credibility of the Stability and Growth Pact, one begins to wonder whether this is part of an orchestrated campaign. My question to the Commission President is this: in making your remarks to  – and you have said that you stand by every word – was it your intention to launch a debate on how to reform the Stability and Growth Pact? If so, that is a debate we welcome, but surely a debate which would better have been conducted some months ago. Had the Commission acted more firmly then, using the licence that we gave you when we invested you, its own authority and that of the Stability and Growth Pact might have suffered less damage. In the current circumstances, no change is clearly not an option, but two principles must guide us. The first is that a well-run economy and a stable currency require taxes and spending to be in balance over the course of the business cycle. The second is that the rules are the same for all countries, large or small. Those principles are at the heart of the Stability and Growth Pact and my group expects them to be the starting point for any reform. If today marks the beginning of a debate on how to improve and strengthen the Pact, what reforms do we need to give it renewed credibility? First of all let us be clear on what we should not do. We should not call into question the 3% limit for deficits as we hit hard economic times. If countries do not pay off their debts, then we will all pay the price in higher interest rates and a weaker currency. The Liberal Group agrees with Mr Prodi that the Stability and Growth Pact must be applied intelligently. That is why we supported the Commission's decision to allow two more years for countries to return their budgets to balance, because growth had been slower than expected. But we must not forget that postponement to 2006 came with strings attached in the form of a requirement to reduce structural deficits by 0.5% year on year. The Liberal Group believes that a new target for the structural deficit should be included in the Stability and Growth Pact. That would increase pressure on governments to reduce their deficits in their good times so that they can allow borrowing to take the strain when times are bad. On that analysis, any intelligent interpretation would clearly conclude that France's recent budget makes no effort to reduce its structural deficit and is clearly in breach of the Stability and Growth Pact. France must therefore face an early warning. That is what we would like to hear from the Commission today. When the Commission brings forward a proposal for such an early warning, then it will help to restore credibility to the Pact. The Liberal Group agrees with you, Mr Prodi, that the Stability and Growth Pact needs authority behind it to apply it. That is why we call for the Commission to have the power to issue early warnings against countries which are breaching the rules, whether Finance Ministers agree or not. Only if the Pact has a strong policeman can Member States be forced into taking corrective action while they can afford to. Let us be clear. We will not support any reforms to the Stability and Growth Pact which undermine the basic principles of fiscal responsibility and equality before the law. The end point of reform must be a strengthened Stability and Growth Pact which punishes fiscal  and rewards countries which run their budgets responsibly. Judging by the warm welcome which Francis Mer, the French finance minister, gave to your remarks in that interview, I fear that France will feel empowered to flout the rules. If you wish to have the authority to enforce the Stability and Growth Pact, then you must earn that authority by acting promptly against France and any other countries which might be tempted to follow their example. – Mr President, it is an honour to be attacked by one of the Conservative Party's young Turks.  I gave the House information which I believed to be correct. In fact I said to the House that I 'understood' that Mr Muis was going to be at the committee meeting, but I am pleased that later on in that debate the Chairman of the committee herself said that she was unaware Mr Muis was going to be there, so the House was in no way misled. Had I had different information, I would have communicated it. Mr President, the obituaries for the Stability Pact have been written before and then held back as the patient lurched on, if only on life support. What we witnessed last week was finance ministers giving the last rites to rules which were intended to guarantee the long-term stability of our currency and economy. Of course, the guilty parties deny all responsibility, or claim 'the Pact is dead, long live the Pact'. But the truth is that the eurozone's two leading economies have sent a message to all the small countries in the eurozone, and to the acceding countries, which reads 'do as we say, not as we do'. And I should like to point out to Mr Tremonti that the Italian presidency has failed in its duty by acting as an associate in the endeavours of the countries concerned to flout the Pact, rather than ensuring that the rules were respected. We will pay a heavy price for the cavalier disregard of finance ministers for the rules of the Stability Pact. We will pay a price in terms of damage to the trust between Member States, in terms of lost credibility in the eyes of our citizens, and, in the long run, in terms of higher interest rates, lower growth and currency instability. Unless our leaders agree on a revised and workable framework for fiscal stability, and inscribe this in our basic law, then we are left with nothing but a broken gentlemen's agreement. Countries which gave up their currencies on the understanding that they would not be expected to pay for the debts of their neighbours have a right to demand more than that. That is why my Group welcomes the stand taken by Commissioner Solbes and the Commission's intentions to make proposals to reshape the rules. If you kill off the Pact in its existing form, you have a responsibility to commit yourself to an agreed interpretation of a set of rules to prevent a borrowing free-for-all. Liberal Democrats believe that a well-run economy and a stable currency require taxes and spending to be in balance over the course of the business cycle. The problem is not the 3% deficit limit; the problem is the failure of countries to consolidate their budgets in terms of growth. My surprise at hearing the leader of the Socialist Group in this House agree with us is matched only by my delight at his conversion. The revised rules should provide sticks and carrots to ensure that we take advantage of periods of economic growth to run budgets in balance or in surplus and reduce national debt. Countries which operate a responsible policy in the good times could benefit from more flexibility in bad times to let borrowing take the strain. These rules should provide for early action against countries which do not control their deficits in periods of growth, to force them to take corrective measures. A new target for the underlying budget balance could be added, and government expenditure on investment should also be taken into account. The European Commission should have greater authority to police these new rules, since national governments have shown that they cannot be trusted to do so. This has been a bad week for the rule of law in the European Union. My Group hopes that at the summit in Brussels our leaders will recognise their responsibility to salvage, from the wreckage of the Stability Pact, some credibility for Europe's fiscal policy . – I certainly share the concern that Enrique Barón Crespo has raised at the failure of the Justice and Home Affairs ministers to reach agreement on the proposal for a European arrest warrant. I note, however that, in addition to Mr Verhofstadt's planned visit to Rome, there will be an extraordinary meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs ministers on Thursday of this week. It must be hoped that agreement can be reached on that occasion. The House anticipated that an agreement might not be reached and recommended at least consideration of the use of Article 40 of the Treaty which would allow a number of countries to proceed on the basis of reinforced cooperation. Nobody wants that solution; it must be hoped that we can reach agreement between 15, but, one country must not be allowed to hold up progress in the fight against terrorism called for by the Heads of State and Government in Ghent. – Mr President, it seems hard to believe that the disunity of the world community as a whole, and the European Union in particular, could reach a lower point than when the 'gang of 8' prime ministers signed their ill-judged letter backing the USA on Iraq. But we are now plumbing new depths of public bickering, with the splits spreading from the UN and the EU to include Nato. Anarchy reigns in our international institutions, and that only provides comfort to Saddam Hussein. If we are to prevent these fissures becoming a chasm, our governments must draw back from their quarrels, return to first principles and move forward on the basis of what unites them. The United Nations, Nato, the European Communities – these institutions have served us well, and they are too valuable to be abandoned in the face of current differences of approach. And if that requires America to show a little patience, that is no bad thing. Public opinion in the US is less united than President Bush pretends – over a third still want a new UN vote to authorise any conflict, and almost a quarter do not want US troops to be sent to Iraq at all. When a former president pleads for patience, and leading Democrat Senator John Kerry hopes for an America: 'where military might is not clouded by our need for oil', is there really bipartisan backing for President Bush, to give him the credibility he needs? Democracy can be difficult, and building support for a position often takes time and good arguments. But it is better to take the time to do it and get it right than to launch into a course of action, half cock. Liberals therefore congratulate the Greek Presidency on convening next Monday's meeting. We trust that all governments will attend. They should come prepared to listen and to seek common ground, not simply to repeat their well-known positions. Europe's leaders too should take care not to overplay their hand. The United Nations High Commission for Refugees is rightly following the maxim that they should prepare for the worst while continuing to hope for the best, by making contingency plans for a possible refugee crisis. As a collective defence organisation, Nato should be guided by the same principle, and it is the responsibility of every Nato country to support Turkey's request for assistance under Article 4 of the North Atlantic Treaty. Given the reservations he expressed last time, Dr Hans Blix's report on Friday will carry particular significance. Those who call for more inspectors should heed his remark that: 'the principal problem is not the number of inspectors but rather the active cooperation of the Iraqi side'. At the same time, if he reports progress towards active cooperation, the US and Britain should give the UN process the space to work. Amid all this gloom, perhaps we can take comfort from one ray of hope. When the inspectors report again on Friday, the eyes of the world will again be focused on the UN Security Council. It will be the body which represents the ultimate authority of the international community and considers Iraq's fate. We should welcome the fact that the UN, established to preserve world peace, is at the heart of the process. Let us keep it there. – Mr President, European Liberal Democrats in this House hope that President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing will present to the Heads of State and Government a draft Constitutional Treaty which commands a broad consensus. It must dampen the fires of the increasingly bitter disputes we have witnessed in recent weeks. However, it is for the Convention, not its President, to confirm the existence or not of a consensus, and if the Convention needs a little more time to complete its work, so be it. Mr Giscard d'Estaing likes to say that his Constitution will last unchanged for 50 years, but unless a durable consensus is reflected in the final text and Member States are given the time to debate it we are likely to have to revisit the matter in the very near future. The latest proposals provide hope that the Praesidium is now in listening mode, but there is clearly still much listening to do. Even with the restrictions on his role in foreign policy, European Liberal Democrats remain unconvinced of the case for a full-time chairman of the European Council. We are suspicious that the larger Member States seek to unpick the seams of the Community fabric. A double-hatted approach for Europe's new Foreign Minister commands widespread support, so why not take the same approach and integrate the roles of European Commission and European Council Presidents? Must we risk years of conflict, of turf wars, of duplication of effort before we recognise the sense of this approach? At the very least we must leave open the door to an integrated presidency in a few years time. President Prodi spoke – and I have sympathy with much that he said – of the national veto. In the name of preserving national sovereignty, the veto all too often promotes international anarchy. Unless we are capable of thinking in new ways about the concept of sovereignty, we will continue to fail our citizens on the major challenges we face. While I welcome the proposed extension of Parliament's powers of democratic control over the budget and European legislation, I am concerned that an imbalance remains between the powers of Parliament and Council in other areas, such as concluding agreements with third countries on crucial security matters. Mr President-in-Office, another item on your agenda in Thessaloniki will be the debate on High Representative Solana's recommendations for an overall strategy in foreign and security policy. It is vital for the European Union to develop a doctrine which enshrines the central role of international law and of institutions such as the UN, the WTO and NATO. Europe also urgently needs a framework for deciding under which conditions we should commit troops to military action, including conflict prevention, peace enforcement and humanitarian crises. Congo is a welcome step forward but our current embarrassment over Bosnia-Herzegovina is a setback. And to prevent the European Union fracturing again as it did over Iraq, we need to start debating and planning now our approach to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. I hope that the summit will discuss Europe's approach to North Korea and Iran and not leave it until a crisis erupts. In the area of Justice and Home Affairs, I commend the President-in-Office for the progress made thus far under Greece's stewardship. I hope that you will continue to seek to balance repressive measures against illegal immigration with a generous approach to refugees and an emphasis on human rights and fundamental freedoms. I would also appeal to the President-in-Office to make every effort to conclude three important proposals concerning third-country nationals who are long-term residents, minimum standards for qualifying for refugee status and minimum standards for the granting of such status. Mr President-in-Office, you touched on the subject of a Members' Statute. I fear that the proposal we adopted yesterday will not make your work any easier, but I hope you will be guided in this, as in other matters on your agenda, by the advice of your philosopher, Socrates: remember that there is nothing stable in human affairs, therefore avoid undue elation in prosperity, or undue depression in adversity. – Mr President, 18 months ago when I had the honour to serve as chairman of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, this House adopted a resolution on judicial cooperation between the Union and the USA. That resolution set out four key requirements for any extradition agreement: full respect for the European Convention on Human Rights; no extradition of persons likely to face military tribunals; no extradition if the accused risks facing the death penalty; and that any measures affecting data protection should be proportionate, effective and time-limited. The terrorist outrages in Saudi Arabia on Monday night once again remind us that terrorism still poses a deadly serious threat. We need a robust and effective response. However, the Liberal Democrats in this House insist that anti-terrorism measures must always respect fundamental rights and be subject to proper democratic oversight and control. Striking the right balance is essential to success in fighting those who seek to undermine the fabric of democratic societies. The current draft agreements between the EU and the US on extradition and legal cooperation must not escape the parliamentary scrutiny provided for in our Treaties. They concern 'fundamental choices' within the meaning of Article 21. They fall not only under Article 38 but also under Article 24, and it is scandalous that the Council does not consult this House in advance on all the Article 24 agreements. In France, the  has refused the  the right to approve such agreements: so unless the Council consults us, what parliamentary scrutiny exists in the European Union? These agreements on extradition and legal co-operation are very ambitious. The United States declines to sign the UN conventions on cybercrime, on crime prevention and on the International Criminal Court. In the Union, Member States have not yet ratified our decision on money laundering or the framework directive on terrorism. Yet these proposals cover the whole Palermo agenda. They should at the very least provide for the establishment of bodies to oversee their operation and provide feedback. I can only regret that this agreement makes no reference to the International Criminal Court. I would urge the Council to rectify this. The Council must seek to reconcile the potential conflict between a request from the ICC to surrender a person to the court and the obligation stemming from this extradition agreement. The slide away from democracy can start with the best of intentions. The European Union must guard against it. Do not let the Council's haste facilitate it. . – Mr President, my report is a draft response by this Parliament to two legislative acts: a proposed Council framework directive on combating terrorism and a proposed Council framework directive on the European arrest warrant and surrender procedures between Member States. Together with the creation of the European judicial authority, Eurojust, these two measures form the legislative basis of the European Union's response to the menace of terrorism. The European Union may allow itself a few moments of satisfaction. These measures represent a major step forward towards the creation of a European judicial space. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for reminding us that this judicial space did not start on 11 September last year, although it would be churlish not to recognise that the attacks on New York and Washington on 11 September gave a political momentum which allowed us to knock heads together and overcome certain objections. Many of us regret that such a stimulus was needed. Nonetheless we welcome the progress it has brought. What do these measures do? The European arrest warrant applies to a wider range of offences than previous extradition agreements. It makes surrender a judicial, rather than a political process. It largely abolishes the dual incrimination principle. It sets a time limit of 90 days for extradition, giving us the chance to judge all suspects of an offence at the same time. It consolidates the idea of European Union law. The framework decision on terrorism makes terrorism an offence in every country. Currently it has been an offence in only six. It defines for the first time in international law a terrorist act and the offences which constitute a terrorist act. It seeks to approximate laws with common minimum penalties. I commend these measures to the House. The terrorist threat is deadly serious. It requires a serious response. These two measures constitute such a serious response. I regret – and we have in previous debates here regretted – the absence of proper democratic oversight and control of the Union's procedures of law-making in this area. This House argued for the invocation of Article 42 of the Treaty, allowing these measures to be brought within the first pillar. Nonetheless, we recognise that the process of debate has brought improvements, that our amendments at the first reading have introduced certain safeguards into these measures. I welcome the words from the President-in-Office of the Council about closer involvement of Parliament in the process of passing such legislation. Other measures, such as the freezing of assets, have been far less coordinated. Indeed, it is not unfair to say, from reports of Coreper meetings, that the European Union has been all at sea in its approach to freezing of assets and other decisions. The motion for a resolution on the table today reflects that. We know since the end of the 1990s that three phenomena – terrorism, internationally organised crime and corruption – are increasingly linked. What academics have called the terrorist criminal nexus is well established. The fight against the terrorist criminal infrastructure must be our top priority. We know, too, that internationally organised crime is by far the biggest factor, economically and probably politically, in this terrorist criminal nexus. Money laundering represents between 2 and 5% of aggregate global GNP. That is between EUR 500 billion and EUR 1.5 trillion. It is not enough just to freeze assets of terrorist groups. We must fight the economic dimension of terrorism if we are to get on top of the problem. The United Nations has started to do this through its financial action task force. The recommendations from the Washington meeting of 30 October to be implemented by June of this year are essential and provide an area where we can work together with the United States of America in combating this threat. But here I would appeal for the European Union to take the initiative: to take the initiative on ways forward, to try to bring the Americans back into the international community in this fight against terrorism, and to do so within a proper legal framework, with proper democratic and parliamentary control. A number of amendments have been submitted to my report. Amendments Nos 1 and 5 are identical and they cause me no problem. Amendment No 2 which comes subsequent to our adoption of the report in committee seems to be slightly out of context and I recommend a vote against. Amendment No 4 calls for the establishment of a European act. My group will support this, as we did in committee, although we consider the reintroduction of the amendment to be rather like adding too much monosodium glutamate to the cooking. But Amendment No 3 is the crux of the debate: the movers say that the European Union should not proceed without the guarantee of adequate standards in procedural law. That means that the Union cannot respond to the terrorist threat. I disagree with them. We must respond. But, in giving our agreement, we do so on the basis of faith that these measures will be rebalanced with procedural guarantees. This matter is very poignant to me personally. Faith is not a comfortable basis on which to proceed in politics. I am aware that my name, and perhaps the name of my party, may be associated with laws that could be used for repressive purposes. I appeal to the Council and Commission, in the spirit of the new relationship that we have between our institutions, to move rapidly to consolidate the necessary move forward in security with measures to promote freedom and justice on which the European Union will be judged. In commending these framework directives to the House, in recommending that we trust the other institutions, I say to them: you are on trial. The European Union is on trial before the court of world democratic opinion. – Mr President, with four Member States on the UN Security Council, including the chair, the EU should have the opportunity for real influence over current events and it would if it spoke with one voice. I wonder if Mr Solana would confirm that the meeting of four Security Council members, convened by the Greek Presidency ahead of Monday's General Affairs Council, was intended to achieve a single EU position? Will such meetings become regular events? Or was it simply an attempt to stitch up the outcome of the Council without consulting the remaining Member States? Perhaps I could also ask whether, in the regrettable absence of a coherent EU strategy in the run-up to a possible conflict with Iraq, he would undertake to ensure that the EU starts work now to plan a post-conflict strategy in the region? When we last debated the situation in Iraq in early September, the world seemed on the brink of a unilateral military adventure led by the United States. Our main concerns then were to prevent the credibility of the United Nations and of international law being undermined by a pre-emptive strike not authorised by the UN, and to get weapons inspectors back into Iraq. We may be the old continent but we remember our yesterdays rather well and our experience of war has been very different from that of the USA. In the event, the United States did go the UN route last autumn, and secured a unanimous vote for a tough Security Council resolution. The UN weapons inspectors have been readmitted to Iraq and are doing a professional and thorough job. So we Liberals salute the efforts of Colin Powell, Hans Blix, Mohamed Elbaradei and others for reinforcing the multilateral rule of law. Now that we are engaged on the proper path of international cooperation, we must make every effort to preserve that unity. However, following the presentation of Dr Blix's report to the Security Council, there is a new danger – a danger that the credibility of the UN and international law risks being undermined, not by unilateral US action, but by the failure of the international community to ensure that Iraq rids itself of weapons of mass destruction once and for all. Dr Blix's report to the UN provides a damning if not yet conclusive account of Iraq's failure to cooperate fully with the UN weapons inspectors. Saddam Hussein is required by UN resolution 1441 to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. Instead, we have seen half-truths, prevarication and evasion. Dr Blix has opened the case for the prosecution with powerful arguments, though the evidence he has presented does not yet provide proof beyond all reasonable doubt. That is why Liberals in this House insist that the inspectors be allowed to continue their work. Dr Blix raises many disturbing questions in his report. Saddam Hussein clearly has a case to answer. A peaceful resolution to the crisis is still possible provided that Iraq now demonstrates a real willingness to cooperate with the UN in disarming. But with the inspectors due to report again on 14 February, there is little time left to him before the court of the international community has to reach a verdict. For Liberals, war will always be a last resort; recourse to military action means that the instruments of international governance in which we invest such high hopes have failed. But equally, the international community has to stand ready to enforce its will, or the rule of law will be flouted. And there is plenty of evidence that Saddam Hussein is in breach of international law, most notably of the UN Convention on Genocide for the murder of half a million marsh Arabs. So let us forget talk of allowing Saddam Hussein to slip off quietly into the night for a comfortable exile in a third country. He is a war criminal and he must be brought before the International Criminal Court. To those Members who intend to convey to Saddam Hussein the message that impunity in exile is an acceptable way out, I say, to borrow the phrase of the anti-war coalition: not in our name. And I invite them to search their consciences. Is the best way to advance the cause of peace really to travel to Baghdad for a photo opportunity and risk being manipulated by the Iraqi regime? Dr Blix told us yesterday that if Iraq chooses to cooperate, the inspectors can complete their work very soon. The inspectors must be given more time but if Dr Blix reports on 14 February that Iraq has failed to provide answers to his questions, and if the Security Council therefore determines that they are in material breach of the resolution, then the international community has a responsibility to act. If Iraq does not seize this final opportunity to cooperate, we must act together through the UN to enforce resolution 1441. – We have become aware since drafting this report that the last phrase in our paragraph 4 is contrary to the provisions that we cite in recital A, referring to Protocol 6 of the ECHR. Therefore, I would like to propose that we replace the last phrase of paragraph 4 with the phrase 'extradition cannot take place where the defendant could be sentenced to capital punishment'. If we use those words, we are in conformity with Protocol 6 which we cite at the beginning. Mr President, as we approach the first European Council of the Italian presidency and assess the progress thus far, is the glass of prosecco that the presidency will offer next week half full or half empty? On the evidence of the inaugural meeting of the Intergovernmental Conference in Rome I fear it is half empty. When the Member States convene again to discuss Europe's draft constitution, they should recall the shambolic Nice Summit and reflect on the costs of failure. Poland and Spain should be reminded that their intransigence over the reform of voting weights in Council is perilous politics as well as poor mathematics. If the Nice arrangements were satisfactory, the Council would not have established a Convention in the first place. The system of majority voting agreed at Nice is unwieldy and unfair. To its credit, the Convention threw out the unsteady compromises of Nice and proposed a voting system which is fairer and more transparent. Last time I checked, the representatives of the Spanish and Polish Governments had signed up to the Convention's outcome: now they must respect its work. On other issues too, the hard bargaining has been done. The consensus crafted by the Convention will not be improved on in Rome. Unpick the substance of the draft Treaty and the IGC will drag on into 2004 and descend into diplomatic farce. Then Rome really will be the eternal city. When it comes to economic reform and the Stability Pact, the bubbles in the prosecco have long evaporated. France has yet to convince us that it takes its responsibilities seriously. While we understand the reluctance of some governments to confront France, a Stability Pact without teeth is a paper dragon breathing tinsel flames. The eight governments which have worked hard to play by the rules - often at considerable political cost - have every right to be dismayed that their larger neighbours take fiscal laxity so lightly. The Italian presidency's drive to enhance Europe's competitiveness at the European Council is welcome. But we need to move beyond bold declarations. To achieve better and simpler legislation we need proper consultation and business impact assessments. A level playing field for company take-overs is still frustratingly far away and we have much work to do to agree a viable framework for an integrated market in investment services before the European elections. My group welcomes this week's decision by finance ministers to refocus the growth initiative away from road and rail projects and towards investment in innovation which will help to close Europe's research deficit. In the field of Justice and Home Affairs, there is more sparkle in the Council's agenda. The balance which the Liberal Group seeks to ensure between tackling illegal migration and providing for a system of managed legal migration seems to be essentially there. We will support the Commission in its efforts to create a Border Management Agency. Europe's new eastern border will be one of the longest in the world: it is crucial that we pool our expertise in policing it properly. Sadly, the external agenda of the Union leaves us no cause for celebration. The failure of Cancún must redouble our determination to secure reform of the WTO and trading arrangements which help the world's poorest countries. Europe must insist on a central role for the United Nations in return for the internationalisation of the situation in Iraq. And the tragic events of the past week in the Middle East confirm the need for Europe and America to remain engaged. My group condemns unreservedly the suicide bombings in Haifa, but calls on Israel to abide by international law and act proportionately in its response. A new Constitution, a credible Stability Pact, a revitalised economy, a secure and just Europe in a more stable world: these would be the flavours of a truly vintage year: . I too must apologise to Council and Commission for having to leave before the end of this debate. The rescheduling of this debate has caused me this embarrassment. – Mr President, since 11 September, we have all said that Europe and the USA must stand shoulder to shoulder because we share common values. We must support our ally in its time of need in the same way as America came to Europe's aid twice in the darkest hours of the last century. Yet, this support need not be uncritical. True friends and allies must talk to each other and, more importantly, listen to each other. Sadly, as the Commissioner has said, there have been too many examples recently of poor communication and the turning of deaf ears in transatlantic relations. As the Commissioner demonstrated admirably to Mr Elles, candour is sometimes an obligation of friendship. We must say candidly that on some issues Europe believes the US has got it wrong. Claims that the International Criminal Court would have untrammelled power to prosecute members of the US military are simply not true. To disown the body will not prevent it from going ahead, the US will simply lose all influence over the way the rules develop. American arguments at the UN summit on children against safeguards – because they would prevent judicial execution of minors in Texas – offend the European concept of justice, just as US treatment of Taliban prisoners in the Shibarghan camp in northern Afghanistan seems to us to violate the Geneva Convention. Staying out of the Kyoto agreement on climate change means that the US is free-riding on the efforts of others to tackle global warming. How can we expect the developing world to make its industries environmentally sustainable when the world's leading economy passes the buck so shamelessly? On steel tariffs also, US policy is misguided. Rather than re-structure its steel industry, the US risks losing the moral high ground in the global campaign for free trade. However, the breakdown in communication across the Atlantic is due not only to errors of judgment on the US side. It does not help that the European Union is at sixes and sevens. Mr Prodi and Mr Aznar looked distinctly uncomfortable with each other at the summit. The failure of Member States to back the Commission in its response to the steel tariffs dispute undermines the credibility of the Union and weakens our negotiating hand. The Union's failure to speak with one voice, from Iraq to India, makes it mighty difficult for the US to know where we stand. For the Union to have a credible foreign policy we need a common security policy. It is no use establishing a 60 000 strong rapid reaction force if we cannot get it up and running in practice or reach agreement on a common arms procurement policy. In other areas too, from policing on the ground to a single European sky, we will not be taken seriously by the Americans until we get our own act together. Finally, the Union could take a leaf out of the US book in its policy towards China over Taiwan. It is disgraceful that Taiwan, a fully-fledged democracy since 1987, is made a pariah by EU governments which claim to represent democratic values. It is high time that Member States stood together behind the EU flag to open normal relations with Taiwan and take a stand at the UN Human Rights Committee in Geneva against the PRC's human rights abuses. In conclusion, the European Union would be better placed to engage in a real dialogue of equals with the US, if we displayed more unity and demonstrated more backbone. Liberal Democrats look to the Convention on the future of Europe to deliver a federal European Union with a real common foreign and security policy, so that Europe can use active diplomacy to strive for a new approach to global development and convince our American friends to follow. Mr President, on Saturday, Cyprus votes on the Annan Plan and its future. Cyprus stands at a historic juncture. European Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House have consistently urged all parties to support the plan and we do so again now. The Annan Plan offers Cyprus a chance for reconciliation and renewal. It is a door to a better future on an island that has endured too much for too long. The plan makes important concessions to both sides. With goodwill on both sides it could be a first step away from years of partition. My Group thanks Commissioner Verheugen for the leadership he has shown in this matter. We regret that more EU leaders have not expressed the same commitment more volubly. The European Union will underwrite a huge amount of the reunification process and the Court of Justice will provide a legal framework for its resolution. This is the last, best hope for a unified Cyprus to join the European Union on 1 May. We salute the leaders on both sides in Cyprus who have supported the Annan process and have commended it to their fellow Cypriots. 'No' would have been the simple choice: the answer which rhymed easily with resentment and suited political expediency. 'Yes' took courage. There are many Cypriots, particularly on the Greek side, who ask what business it is of ours to be having this debate at all. In the face of all our concern and consternation they offer simply the shrug of self-determination. They can and will vote as they please and they have the right to vote 'no'. But I believe it would be a sad and sectarian choice, the wrong choice for the wrong reasons. Moreover, if the purpose of self-determination is the freedom to go on nursing old resentments and the right to weigh the money in your pocket today against reconciliation tomorrow, the Cypriots who have turned their faces against this process are welcome to it. I would just ask them to reflect on this. What if the West Germans had chosen that kind of self-determination in 1990? On our scarred continent with its crowded history there are some old scores where restitution and compensation can only ever be relative. Only the historically illiterate can believe that we can somehow fix what has happened in Cyprus, anymore than we can fix Kosovo and Serbia or Israel and Palestine. What Cyprus needs is a : some way of living that looks forward rather than backward. The Annan Plan is a . If it is lost on Saturday it could put back the reunification of Cyprus by a generation. The European Union would have to face up to a new reality on the ground: the possibility for a peaceful transfer of land will be lost; the Turkish army will continue to guard what will remain a militarised border; UN peacekeepers will patrol within the European Union. The English writer Lawrence Durrell, who lived for many years on Cyprus, recorded a Greek Cypriot proverb that says there is no fire in old ashes. Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House hope beyond hope that Sunday will not find Cypriots stirring the cold old ashes of a sad history. – Mr President, the House may be aware that the United States have announced this afternoon the arrest of a suspect for an alleged plot to detonate a radioactive dirty bomb on United States soil. The package of measures which were passed by this House before Christmas and immediately after Christmas on an effective European response to terrorism are still not on the statute book despite the pains that we went to deal with them quickly. On behalf of this House, I therefore ask you to call on the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers, who are meeting on Thursday of this week, to make sure that that package goes through as quickly as possible. I believe we owe it to our friends in the United States to ensure that Europe's safeguards against terrorism are as good as possible, since they are clearly still facing a very serious potential threat. Mr President, surely if the rapporteur is requesting a referral back to committee of her own report, and there is a dispute, then the House should vote on this? – Mr President, Mr Cohn-Bendit raises a very important point because this is an issue on which decisions may well be made before our September II part-session. We know that Member States are under great pressure at present and the matter needs to be dealt with. At the same time, it was the view of the Conference of Presidents last week – and I believe it would be the view of this House – that we need to have a full debate on the current situation regarding a possible armed attack on Iraq. I would ask you, Mr President, either to take up Mr Barón Crespo's suggestion or to try to find a way of scheduling such a debate on the International Criminal Court this week without eating into the time foreseen for the debate on Iraq. Mr President, President-in-Office, at the beginning of the last century, a disgruntled writer from Dublin went to live in Italy. He wrote a famous novel in Trieste, a city that some years after his death came to mark the southern end of a line which divided our continent for half a century. This year, under this Irish presidency, that line will finally be erased. History, as Stephen Daedelus reminded us in James Joyce's , is a nightmare from which we are trying to awake. The Irish presidency is right to focus on enlargement. It is an historic moment: the final act of the revolutions of 1989. It is appropriate that a country which speaks for the transformative power of the European Union should oversee that process. But we should not be tempted to believe that we can separate enlargement from agreement on the instrument designed to make that step possible. Integrating the new Member States into the Lisbon process and Schengen cannot hide the fact that without the additional framework of a new constitutional settlement we are simply changing the oil in a Union which needs a new engine. Liberals in this House welcome the Taoiseach's strong commitment to advancing the work of the IGC. December's tempers have cooled. Europe's destiny is in an altogether safer pair of hands. This time, Europe's leaders must choose to succeed. My Group also welcomes the presidency's intention to sustain the momentum of enlargement by concluding accession talks with Romania and Bulgaria and by responding to the request from Croatia. We, too, see this as the moment to achieve an historic settlement with Cyprus. The presidency also rightly focuses, too, on the Lisbon Agenda in what can only be called its hour of need. Most of the structural problems identified at Lisbon remain obstacles to wealth creation. The political will needed to undertake reform and give the eurozone credibility has not yet clearly been summoned. The Celtic tiger has long stood for the benefits of competitiveness and economic discipline. Now it is time for you to roar in the Council. We welcome the commitments on the Framework Directive on Services, published by the Commission yesterday, and on the Financial Services Action Plan. We welcome the commitment to work with the European Parliament to secure the adoption of the Trans-European Networks proposals. But your modesty about what you can achieve must not obscure the need to resurrect the Growth and Stability Pact in some form under this presidency. The presidency's assessment of our agenda abroad is also sound. We welcome the focus on African issues, on the holocaust of AIDS and poverty and hunger. We accept the need to work constructively with Russia, although we expect hard words on Chechnya and on Russia's vanishing political pluralism. We welcome the attempts to rebuild bridges in our transatlantic friendships. But here the Council's loyalty to European values means that Guantanamo Bay must be on the agenda of the EU-US Summit. The EU must act together to demand conscionable treatment for all detainees in Camp Delta, including the Europeans who have now been held for two years without charge. I welcome, Mr President-in-Office, your commitment to review justice and home affairs in the Union. I hope you will not overlook the worrying Amnesty International report on human rights within some of our own member countries. My Group welcomes the presidency's political commitment to take the Statute for Members forward. That commitment must now be carried through into reform by both Parliament and the Council so that the statute can enter into force after the elections. Mr President-in-Office, your work programme is a worthy one. If my Group could offer you a slogan for it, it would be 'restoring belief'. Deliver a deal on the Constitution and see in enlargement and you will have done Europe, and Ireland, proud. Carry that spirit through to the European elections in June, to a pan-European campaign with a continental consciousness rather than 25 national campaigns, and history will give you rich reward. Mr President, referral to the Court is not something that we would have chosen. The Commission promised to consult us under Article 300 with the power of assent. The Commission has not fulfilled that promise and, therefore, we have had to use a very blunt instrument to try to maintain democracy within this Union. *** Mr President, my Group has no problem with the second of those amendments, but we feel that the first weakens the text and therefore we object to it. –Mr President-in-Office, until last night your programme was available only on your website and only in Italian and it is still now available only in Italian and English. While I have the good fortune to use a computer and to read both languages, some colleagues do not. I hope this is not a presage. Your primary task will be to convene the IGC to examine the draft Constitution. My group shares your ambition to finish this work as soon as possible, and in good time before next year's elections. We trust that you will provide adequate representation of the European and national parliaments whose involvement in the Convention helped make it such a success. But the future of Europe is up to the Member States. If they continue to fight over it, it will be not a Treaty of Rome – not even a Treaty of Dublin – but perhaps a Treaty of Utrecht, representing peace through exhaustion. Liberal Democrats agree with your priorities on the European economy. Our economy is in a bad way; the German motor of European growth is stalling. So initiatives to revive growth are welcome. Yet the completion of the trans-European transport networks must be viewed as a means to an economic end – the smoother functioning of the internal market – and not as an end in itself. As a British Liberal, I am delighted by the fidelity of your programme to John Maynard Keynes, and my delight is matched only by my surprise. However, I hope you agree that the spending you propose on TENs and on defence must be compatible with Member States' commitments under the Stability Pact, which is already under great strain. For Liberals the continuing value of Keynes lies in his insistence on solidarity. Your programme speaks much of consumers, but we are citizens first and foremost. Market ideology tricks people into equating buying power with voting power, and it robs us of the civic freedom by which we control the social consequences of our private choices. Where regulation is needed is where the gains from remedying market failure for citizens or the environment outweigh the costs of government intervention. In Italian political debate this is the difference between , in which we believe, and , which we very much reject. My group supports the closer cooperation you propose with countries around the new borders of the EU, but we should not offer false hope of membership to our neighbours. Closer relations with the Union must be linked to democracy, respect for human rights and development of a market economy. We particularly welcome your emphasis on the Euro-Med partnership, which has long been a Liberal priority, and your plans for Albania, where Italy can surely show a lead. Your programme's proposals on transatlantic relations, which are on the mend after the breakdown caused by the crisis over Iraq, and your aim to rebuild ties with America are welcome. However, while seeking common ground with the United States, we must not shy from speaking up for Europe's interests where we disagree, and we welcome the strength of your statement on the International Criminal Court On the Middle East too, the Union must project its voice in the Quartet strongly and clearly. Assistance in rebuilding the Palestinian economy must be conditional on action against terrorism, as improved cooperation with Israel must be conditional on progress in implementing the road map, notably on dismantling settlements. On agriculture and on immigration, Liberal Democrats find much less in common with your priorities. These two policy areas are linked. You say very little in your programme about CAP reform and yet at present every cow in Europe gets a subsidy of EUR 2 a day, while one billion of our fellow citizens worldwide must survive on less than EUR 1 a day. Unless we open our markets to farm produce from developing countries, their people will vote with their feet. The policies you propose on justice and home affairs seek mainly to prevent immigration. They will not work because you cannot beat the law of supply and demand which operates in labour markets like elsewhere. When you tell us you are concerned about Europe's reputation ', please bear in mind that white Caucasians are in a minority on our planet. We hope that you will be guided in justice and home affairs by the balanced approach of the Greek Presidency, rather than by the tenor of Seville. Mr President-in-Office, your country assumes the presidency following a highly successful Hellenic Presidency, marked by the search for compromise and agreement. Liberal Democrats in this House hope that in your tenure in the Chair you will, in your words and actions, respect the dignity of the office and honour Italy's traditional European vocation. – Mr President! Prime Minister, you have chosen More Europe as the theme for your presidency. Liberal Democrats hope that this will be reflected in your commitment to enlargement of the European Union. Just as this House insisted on Iberian enlargement some 15 years ago, despite doubts in certain national capitals, so we will militate for an early and successful eastward enlargement in which 2002 will be crucial. We will judge your presidency primarily by your achievements in preparing the reunification of our continent. We wish you success, too, in your efforts to guide smoothly the introduction of the euro. As one who saw in the New Year in France, I am particularly grateful for Spain's role in lending Chirac and Jospin a little small change. Perhaps next time you see Tony Blair you will hand him a few coins as well and ask him whether his indecision is final. British entry into the euro would certainly mean the kind of More Europe we would like to see.  Your vision of the future speaks of new transnational challenges. Relations between India and Pakistan are deeply worrying but Afghanistan must be uppermost in our minds. Soon the bombing must stop and the building must begin. We must respond to the plight of the people through generous giving from our aid budget and more help in patrolling the peace. Your programme speaks of a war against terrorism. This is no conventional war and it will not be won with conventional weapons. Some of us fear that military intelligence, which is leading to bombing and military solutions, may be causing collateral damage and storing up other problems for the future. We hope that Europe can offset this collateral damage by adding to our armoury emotional intelligence, recognising that political problems often require political solutions. You kindly referred to my report on terrorism, adopted on 6 September last year. I would draw your attention, too, to our resolution on cooperation between the United States and the European Union in the fight against terrorism. Liberal Democrats view with deep unease the divergence between the US approach of emergency laws and military tribunals and the rights-based approach that we want for the Union. We insist that you can be both tough on terrorism and true to our Treaties.  You will take forward the building of the area of freedom, security and justice defined in the Amsterdam Treaty. Your presidency programme asserts that current exceptional circumstances require putting security first. If this is true we will nonetheless push you to make sure that freedom and justice are not far behind. In drafting a programme like this any presidency faces a dilemma. We recognise that. A list of priorities soon becomes a universal catalogue. Each Member State brings something different to the party. While we welcome the input that Spain can make to the Barcelona Process and Euro-Med, we are nonetheless fascinated to read in your programme that the European Union's northern dimension is one of your priorities. We will follow development in this matter closely. The reform of the Council that you talk about is most welcome. We hope that you will ensure that the Council abides by its undertaking to allow public access to documents and that it seeks better relations with this House, which, sadly, does not get a mention in your programme until page 20. This House is the true democratic forum of our continent and we want to see its rights respected. If for my Group something is missing in this document it is a recognition of Europe's different regions and cultures. It reads to me as a rather Castilian programme that does not reflect entirely the Spain which I have visited and the Spain that is represented in my Group. What has become of the work of the eminent Director-General in the Commission, Mr Eneko Landaburu? Your second definition of More Europe talks about 'signifying the European nature of Spanish society.' Our second definition of More Europe would be that it signifies the contribution of all Iberian cultures and the flowering thereof among other European cultures in the creation of a Europe whose strength is not that of a monolithic state with deciduous development, but one of unity through diversity. In wishing you every success, Prime Minister, I look forward to a vigorous debate with the Spanish Presidency. Mr President, this Spring Council will be dominated by the economic reform agenda and rightly so. Yet there is something a little strange in talking about the future of Europe when the draft constitution fashioned to facilitate that future languishes in Council. Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House welcome the intensive consultations undertaken by the presidency. Signs from most national capitals suggest that it should not be beyond the wit of our Member States to deliver a deal. President-in-Office, we urge you not to give up on your efforts to break the deadlock at the IGC and secure a constitution for Europe before the elections to this House in June. I should also like to thank you, President-in-Office, for going off-script in your remarks. Your line that it is 'possible to find a consensus in the context of a process leading to a conclusion' is one of Sir Humphrey's finest. I am pleased to see that he is alive and well in Justus Lipsius.  However, your line that the key to it all is political will is exactly right. The potential problems of an EU of 25 are painfully clear. Without institutional reform this Union cannot function effectively. It is time to stop pretending that life will somehow go on if the IGC fails. Forget the infamous Polish slogan 'Nice or death'. For an enlarged Europe, Nice death. I share the Commission's concern about tinkering with the draft constitution. Some of Europe's leaders are playing poker with the Union's future in the last chance saloon. It is time to show our cards: governments, people, parliamentarians alike. Do we demand a stronger, more credible Europe at home and abroad? Do we insist on integration where it is needed? Do we want the President of the Commission to be Europe's best and brightest, able to command support across party lines? Liberal Democrats and Reformers are in no doubt about our answers to these questions: yes, yes and yes! I regret that the European left, which gave us the inspirational leadership of Jacques Delors, now seems to lack conviction about the future of our continent. Mr Poettering's platoon seems more concerned about making the next President of the Commission their political plaything than about the content of his or her programme. It is alright, Mr Poettering, for Wilfred Martens to claim that the PPE-DE is 'uncompromisingly pro-European': you look more like  pro-European to me! Do you speak in the name of all of your Group, or just one part of it? The European Council also has to debate Europe's external relations. It should be recognised that without exception, Europe speaks more strongly in the world when it speaks with a single voice. That is why, President-in-Office, I make this appeal to you: last night, five of the nine British detainees at Guantanamo Bay were repatriated to the United Kingdom. Even as a British citizen, I see this less as a gain for Britain than as a loss for Europe. Because if the Council had pushed Europe's case over bilateral bargains, we might have had a more united and principled stand. We should have insisted on securing the release of all Europe's detainees from Guantanamo Bay.  I challenge your presidency to stand up for our Union's values by speaking for Europe as a whole at the EU-US summit on the issue of the remaining Guantanamo Bay detainees. We have to pull together now as a continent or we will fall apart. The pro-European forces in government and this House have to make their case with conviction, because we need a new constitution, a new credibility and a new self-confidence, and we need them now. Mr President, all eyes are on efforts to agree a Constitutional Treaty before the year is out. The irony of our leaders making new rules for the European Union only days after breaking the Stability Pact will not be lost on our citizens. At the same time, we look to the European Council to shoulder its responsibility, to stand up for the rights of European citizens who continue to be held in Guantanamo Bay. In Naples, our Foreign Ministers managed to move closer to agreement only by moving further away from the Convention text. My group regrets that the tide of reform will not now rise to the high water mark set by the Convention. The Convention's extension of codecision to budgetary powers would have made the European Union more accountable and transparent. No viable parliamentary democracy can exist without the power of the purse. The obduracy of finance ministers on this matter is a battle pitting raw politics against the principle of reform. I welcome the remarks of the President of the Commission. We must not cede on this point. We also have to resolve the issue of voting weights so that the efficiency and accountability gains promised by the Convention are not entirely lost. To us, what really killed the Stability Pact was certain countries confusing their power to break the law with the right to do so. In Guantanamo Bay, the United States has fallen victim to the same confusion. America was founded on the principle that the free are governed by laws, not men. Countries have borders, but principles do not. There is no line on a map beyond which such values no longer hold. The prison at Guantanamo Bay squanders a precious American legacy and surrenders vital high ground. For two years the 660 men and boys in Camp Delta have been denied the rights of prisoners of war or of civilian criminals. They have been charged with no crimes. The military commissions that will judge them will grant no right of appeal and no access to an effective defence. Dostoyevsky once wrote: 'You can only know the nature of a civilisation by visiting its prisons'. Of all the tests that a civilisation can be handed, the responsible use of power over the powerless is the greatest. Sadly, the standards of detention and justice at Guantanamo Bay are unworthy of a country with America's proud history of civil liberties.  While I welcome the news that some detainees may shortly be repatriated, winning a reprieve from this disgrace for a few Australians and a few Europeans renders more stark the injustice committed to those who will be left behind. Europe must press for every man and boy in Guantanamo Bay to be either immediately charged, face justice in their home country or be released, regardless of nationality. President-in-Office, I hope that will be high on your agenda. I call upon this House to demand of the European Council an unequivocal statement of Europe's dismay, and I call upon our President to convey that message. I call upon the European Union’s leaders to ensure that bilateral deals do not silence Europe on the greater principles at stake. The Liberal Group adds its support to calls for the European Parliament and for the Council to submit an Amicus Brief to the US Supreme Court on behalf of the detainees. Two of our greatest enemies in the fight against terror are the fear that makes us cheapen our freedoms and the power that makes us cynical of them. If you at the Council can find the will to do justice to our enemy, then we will already have won. – Mr President, I am delighted with the support we have received from Mr Barón Crespo and the PSE Group. I can assure you that my group is deeply concerned about the situation in Chechnya and it is something which must command the attention of this House. However, it is something on which we have frequently expressed ourselves and there is no particular urgency. The action of the Governor of the State of Illinois in the United States is something we very much welcome. The position of this House, over many years, on this issue has been so consistent that we should take this opportunity to welcome what has happened, and indeed we should call on the 38 remaining states in the United States of America which still apply the death penalty to follow the example set in Illinois. It is for that reason that we maintain our request for an urgency on this subject. – President-in-Office, you take on the presidency of the European Council at a time when the Union faces its greatest-ever challenge: the largest expansion of our Community in the history of European integration. If you succeed – as we are confident you will – your presidency will tear down the last vestiges of the Iron Curtain. As you rightly point out in your programme, Europe will have come full circle, from the Copenhagen Summit of 1993, which set the accession criteria, to the Copenhagen Summit which reunites Europe in 2002. Why are Liberals in this House confident that you will succeed? Not only because you have prepared so thoroughly for this task but also because you assume the presidency of the Council at a time when Liberals also occupy the presidencies of the European Commission and the European Parliament. With governments of left and right bowing to narrow national interests and placing in jeopardy this historic reunification, history appeals to the generosity of the liberal spirit. We appeal to Blair and Schröder on the left and to Aznar, Berlusconi and Chirac on the right to pause for a moment and ponder: what picture will Europe project to the world if you squabble like Roman soldiers under the cross over a fraction of 1% of GDP?  It is not easy to be a Liberal when greed and prejudice fill the air, but rest assured, President-in-Office, that Liberal Democrats in this House will maintain our unfailing support for enlargement under the criteria laid down in Copenhagen. I regret that the Spanish presidency was not able to lighten your workload by making greater progress on agriculture and fisheries, which have been spoken of today. While we strongly support reform of the CAP and the CFP, this must not be a precondition for enlargement. Let nobody assume that in our eagerness to secure the prize of enlargement, we will allow reform to fall by the wayside. But neither will we be held to ransom by the practice which allows the European Union's agenda to be dictated by the timetable of national elections. The other hurdle that you must surmount is the paucity of public preparedness. A Eurobarometer poll shows that only one citizen in five feels well informed about EU enlargement. Ireland must approve the Nice Treaty, and beyond Copenhagen, national parliaments and this House must ratify the accession treaties. If popular fears about candidate countries and the costs of enlargement are not addressed, the process could yet be derailed. However, this challenge will be in large measure addressed if Denmark's proud tradition of openness and accountability is put to good use in opening up the Council beyond the timid measures agreed in Seville, and if you give your excellent European Affairs Minister free rein to take on the Eurosceptics. In justice and home affairs the ELDR Group welcomes your detailed programme to protect our people from terrorism. We hope that as good Liberals you will demonstrate the same zeal in taking forward measures to protect citizens' freedoms, as you show in tackling terrorist threats. In the area of immigration and asylum, I appeal to you to use the tried and tested Community method to make progress and to overcome the short-sighted opposition of others to a European border guard corps. In answer to the remarks of my friend, Mr Baron Crespo, I would far rather be an asylum-seeker trying to get into Denmark – where I would have a greater chance of success – than one of the huddled masses trying to get into Mr Blair's bleak Britain.  On sustainable development, your commitment to concentrate on measures to put people back to work and ensure a sound economy rather than add to the proliferation of targets is music to Liberal Democrat ears. We also applaud your aim to match further progress on energy liberalisation with common ground rules on energy taxation, and you can count on our support to broker the necessary deals on the many financial services measures needed by the end of this year if we are to complete the financial services action plan on time by 2004. President-in-Office, with such a magnitude of tasks you shoulder a great burden. Re-uniting Europe is rightly your number one concern. We wish you well and we offer you our support, for it is on our generation this responsibility falls; it is to us this challenge is made and it is with us that hope resides. Mr President, I will be brief because I have lost my voice – and I do not mean politically, I mean physically! It is clear that a battle royal is going on within one of our larger Member States. The main protagonists in that battle royal happen to be the current President of the Commission and the current President of the Council. It would be unrealistic to suggest that people in such positions have not had a political past, or do not have a political future to look forward to. There is a question mark over whether the occupants of those posts should be engaged to such an extent in such a political battle while holding those offices. But it would be naïve of us to assume that such battles will not continue, and indeed naïve of this Parliament not to imagine that such people will take those positions. – Mr President, I too thank all those who have represented this House on the Convention. It is said that ‘success has many fathers, but failure is an orphan’. The draft Constitution agreed by the Convention last Friday is blessed with many proud parents. Of these, the European Parliament can claim more than its fair share of paternity, since we led the calls for the Convention method to be used to avoid a repeat of the failures of Nice. We owe much to the Belgian Presidency of the European Union, which gave us the visionary Laeken Declaration. While the birth was difficult and the baby is not as pretty as we hoped, the European Constitution born on Friday 13 June 2003 deserves a long and fruitful life. Liberals everywhere will rejoice that fundamental rights now lie at the heart of the Union's basic law. We welcome the establishment of a single legal personality for the Union, the unification of the pillars and the extension of democratic control by the European Parliament. Crucially, this shorter and simpler treaty should also be more accessible to Europe's citizens since it sets out more clearly who does what. Of course we would have liked to go further in some respects. We hope that the post of Chairman of the European Council will in time be merged with that of Commission President in an integrated Presidency. We want to see the legitimacy of the Commission strengthened by a real election of its President by the European Parliament. We seek a greater role for regions with constitutional powers. And we would like greater recourse to majority voting, even in a sensitive area like foreign policy, so that the Union can act more decisively abroad. There is still work to be done. The extension of qualified majority voting needs to be given concrete expression in the policies in part 3 of the constitution. We also urge the Convention to be ambitious in creating a lighter procedure for amending part 3, through voting by super-qualified majority and without recourse to national ratification. At Thessaloniki, the Heads of State and Government will be granted custody of the new-born constitution and will bring it to maturity in the Intergovernmental Conference. Having been so central to its conception, our governments will not be able to disown the constitution lightly. The European Council will have to decide the composition and the duration of the IGC. The parliamentary component of the Convention must be fairly represented at the talks – as you, Mr President, have said. Since members of the Liberal caucus under my colleague Andrew Duff have made such a great contribution to the work of the Convention, we insist that Parliament's representation should reflect this. On the length of the IGC, if Member States seek to unpick one part of the deal, others will pull at it too and the whole fabric risks unravelling. For that reason, we urge that the IGC be kept short and stick to the essentials of the text agreed by the Convention. This brings me to my final point. The most open and democratic institutional reform in our Union's history deserves to be brought to a fitting conclusion. It is no use making the EU simpler and more accountable if politicians do not then explain it and argue the case for active engagement in Europe Speaking personally, I hope that my own government will at last shake off its reticence and take the case for Britain's membership of this refounded European Union to the people in a referendum. Whether they ratify by way of referendum or parliamentary debate, I hope that other countries too will seize the opportunity to have a great debate with their voters. That way, our people can again feel ownership of the European project. Mr President, Liberal Democrats in this House join the tributes which have been paid to Sergio Vieira de Mello and all the other victims of the callous attacks on the United Nations in Baghdad. The unstable and violent situation in Iraq shows that while a coalition of the willing may be able to win a military conflict, winning the peace without the legitimacy of the United Nations is a much more difficult matter. My Group, therefore, welcomes the tentative moves towards a UN resolution which would place the coalition forces in Iraq within a multilateral framework. Liberals have always favoured a multilateral resolution to the problems posed by Iraq, and if the coalition is belatedly coming round to that view, then it is better late than never. The so-called 'coalition of the willing' was a curiously outdated 19th century balance of power concept, which always carried with it the danger of leaving at least one nation feeling aggrieved. What we seek is a multilateral, rules-based framework for crisis management within which there is space for the hurts of nations to heal. There is no reason why the United States should not retain command of a multinational UN force in Iraq, but it must be based on a UN resolution and give the UN and contributing nations the central role in decision-making. Failure thus far to find weapons of mass destruction is leading to searching questions at hearings in London, Washington and Canberra and raising doubts about the legitimacy of the enterprise. The way to give the international presence in Iraq a sense of legitimacy and regain the trust of the Iraqi people is to mount a UN-backed drive to restore security, to improve the lives of ordinary Iraqis and to move towards government by popular mandate. The swearing-in of Iraq's first post-Saddam cabinet today is a tremendous step forward in that respect. We hope that the timetable for elections by the end of next year can be maintained. My Group welcomes the Commission's initiative in convening a preparatory meeting today in Brussels for the important conference of international donors next month in Madrid. – Mr President, I wish to talk specifically about the Council statement which we are expecting on cooperation between the EU and the USA and cooperation in combating terrorism. The events of 11 September were an excruciating flash of light and we had to react immediately. However, we must not be blinded into forgetting that terrorism has been a problem on our continent for many years. After 11 September, I remember Hans Gert Poettering saying here in a memorable debate 'we are all Americans', but we have learned since then that we must first be Europeans. I welcome the Justice and Home Affairs Council's agreement at the weekend on a framework decision on combating terrorism. I welcome the Council's recognition of a European Union legal base for the freezing of assets of groups linked to terrorism and, in particular, yesterday's agreement between Council President Guy Verhofstadt and Prime Minister Berlusconi on a European arrest warrant. Europe has put its house in order. Europe has shown its capacity to act. In tackling terrorism there is a fine balance to be struck between the security needs of our citizens and the rights and freedoms which make democracy what it is. The European Union has shown that it can be tough on terrorism and still be true to its treaties and to the values which underpin them. It has recognised that networks of terrorism stretch beyond its borders and that we need cooperation between democracies, particularly across the Atlantic. The next step must be an agreement on better cooperation with the United States. Articles 24 and 28 of the TEU allow us to build a cooperation agreement on police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters with our friends in North America. We note that there is a famous exchange of letters between Mr Bush and Mr Verhofstadt – some 40 US proposals on what we could be doing to improve our capacity to fight against terrorism. Most of these can be and I believe are being complied with. Some of them cause a few doubts since the US appears to be asking for things which it does not require in its own laws, such as retention of traffic data. Yet others highlight a difference of legal culture between our democracies. On a visit to Washington DC last week, in talks with senators, congressmen and members of the Administration, I was concerned to learn that the US Patriot Act, adopted by the United States to fight terrorism, appears to discriminate against non-US citizens. We will need to explore with our American friends quite how it affects those from the European Union. I was struck too at the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing of Attorney General John Ashcroft by the way in which the proposal for military tribunals – the executive order from the President – would provide for hearings in secret, for a prosecution being able to withhold evidence from the defence, for defendants not necessarily having the right to an independent lawyer or to a private conversation with their lawyer, and by how a sentence – including a death sentence – can be passed by a majority of two-thirds of the jurors. Even if we were able to get an agreement on an extradition package in which the US would not apply the death penalty, the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights, to which all of our Member States are signatories and on which the Union is founded, would prevent extradition of suspects to appear before such military tribunals. Here, in Europe, we have developed a rights-based approach to international law. We would like a permanent international criminal court to try those guilty of crimes against humanity and we have called on the Americans to join us in that. We recognise that democracies need to work together in the fight against terrorism and other forms of serious cross-border crime. My fear is that, if the US goes down the path of military tribunals, we are on divergent paths. We must make that clear to Mr Ashcroft on his visit to Europe later this week. – Mr President, the timeliness of this debate is beyond dispute. The recent rise of anti-immigrant sentiment in France and the Netherlands shows what happens when governments fail to respond to the challenge of immigration. We know that, quite apart from the valuable contribution which immigrants bring to our societies in terms of increased cultural diversity, there are sound economic reasons for a policy of managed immigration, such as meeting labour shortages and funding our creaking pension systems. Indeed, our prosperity will depend on immigration. The question therefore is: what policy should we adopt to make immigration politically acceptable? What we must not do, as too many socialist governments have done, is to bury our heads in the sand and refuse to address the challenge. It is in large part the failure of EU governments to police our borders, to tackle discrimination and xenophobia, and to integrate immigrants harmoniously into our societies that has led to this impasse. No wonder public concern continues to grow. The Liberal Democrat approach would be to open the front door a little, by providing legal avenues for immigration, in order better to close the back door to illegal immigration. This approach has been successfully pioneered by the Canadian Government, and is reflected in the European Commission's proposals for a common immigration policy. It is one we would do well to consider. A policy of managed legal immigration, co-ordinated among Member States, does not mean a free-for-all. Incentives to immigrants to settle more evenly across their host countries would help. A policy which balances rights and duties, so that those newly arriving understand that they can work in their host country and enjoy free movement in the Union and other benefits of EU citizenship, would be helpful too. But they must also understand the need to make an effort to integrate and to live by the rules of the society they join. It is nonsensical political correctness to dismiss any requirement that immigrants should learn the language of their host country. Moreover, proper support for integration must be provided and we must combat discrimination and racism wherever it is found. In this regard, I would pay tribute to the work of the European Union Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia, and I commend to political parties the Charter of Political Parties for a non-racist society. We also need to invest more in our justice systems and the enforcement of legal judgments – we can only expect immigrants to respect core values if we too ensure that these values are respected fully by existing society. A policy of managed immigration requires tough action to control the Union's external borders and I therefore congratulate the Commission for its initiative on a common border guard corps. We also need to do more to help the poor and dispossessed, as the Commissioner said, in their countries of origin, so that they do not have to resort in desperation to criminal gangs of people-smugglers. Most people do not want to up sticks and move elsewhere, so helping to relieve the pressure of illegal immigration is yet another argument, if one were needed, for promoting global free trade and making progress towards the UN target of 0.7% of GDP for development aid. As far as asylum policy is concerned, here again the Liberal Democrat Group is broadly supportive of the Commission's proposals and often sceptical of actions proposed in Council. In conclusion, we believe that there is both a moral and an economic case for managed immigration and a humanitarian approach to asylum. We in the ELDR Group will support the Commission in its efforts to move the Union towards the common policies foreseen in the Amsterdam Treaty. For in the words of that great Liberal J.K. Galbraith: "Migration is the oldest action against poverty. What is the perversity in the human soul that causes people to resist so obvious a good?". Mr President, two weeks ago a London newspaper convened a meeting between senior journalists from Israel and Palestine, the first of its kind since before the current intifada. A number of participants, from both sides, expressed the belief that theirs was, in effect, a 'twenty-second century conflict': a war that would last a hundred years, blighting the lives of their grandchildren's children. A conflict that has the capacity to exhaust the optimism of the best of us once again demands deeper reserves of patience and commitment. But grim as the situation is, we cannot afford to despair. If the two sides have strayed from the roadmap's path of peace and reconciliation, we must coax them back. The European Union must continue to play a crucial role in the search for peace in the Middle East. Greater engagement with Israel might help in this. Making peace also requires a strong, functioning and accountable Palestinian Authority. That is why the Union has spent more than EUR 300 million since 2000 to keep the Palestinian Authority in business. An effective and legitimate Palestinian Authority is essential to dismantle the terrorist organisations. The Palestinians also need a strong voice to negotiate with Israel. The European Union must step up its support for financial reform of the Authority to help it distance itself from terrorism. We have also provided more than EUR 30 million for the vital work of Palestinian municipalities in providing basic public services, because that is how you fight despair – with clean water and classrooms; with the promise of normality and peace. We may regret Yasser Arafat's intransigence, but we should remember that if the Palestinians voted tomorrow in the fair and transparent elections we would like to see, they would probably choose him again as their leader. The surest way to ensure that outcome would be for Israel to make a martyr out of him. Arafat's place in the peace process is not for us to determine, any more than it is for Israel or for the United States. However, we can have no truck with terrorism. That is why my Group welcomes the inclusion of Hamas in the European list of terrorist organisations. Suicide bombings have taken an unbearable toll in Israeli lives, and the political apologists for terror cannot receive support while the killing continues. Both sides have to realise that there can be no military solution to this conflict. Israel's extra-judicial killings must end, as they will only breed more terrorists, not force the Palestinians to negotiate. Israel must withdraw its forces from the Occupied Territories, and the settlement building must stop. Two states, living side by side in peace – that is the only viable solution. Israel's existence as a Jewish state and as a democracy demands a Palestinian state. The alternatives are Palestinian apartheid or the inexorable demographic eclipse of Israel's character as a Jewish homeland. The roadmap, of which the European Union was the chief cartographer, recognises this, and my Group remains firmly committed to its implementation. – Mr President, although many of us opposed the basis for the recent war with Iraq, we can unite in rejoicing at the fall of the brutal dictator Saddam Hussein. The Iraqi people can now rebuild their country as a free democracy, at peace with its neighbours and using its immense natural resources to raise the standard of living. The question for Europe today is how to unite in rebuilding Iraq so that we can overcome our previous division. We must project Europe's voice with the unity of a choir singing from the same hymn sheet, rather than the dissonance of an unruly cacophony. The informal meeting of foreign ministers leaves me cautiously optimistic. I welcome the proposals from the Commission and the Greek Presidency to guide our action in post-war Iraq. While we may not yet have the capacity to wage war in defence of our values, we have long experience at winning the peace. My group favours an active role for Europe in rebuilding Iraq, but for that we need the legitimacy which can come only from another UN resolution. We were promised a 'vital' role for the UN by President Bush. Our foreign ministers have demanded a 'central' role for the United Nations. Yet the draft resolution of the US, the UK and Spain falls far short of either. You cannot give a vital role to the UN simply by proclaiming it in a recital to a Security Council resolution. A vital role means that rebuilding Iraq would not be not possible without the UN; it entails not endorsing for a 12-month period the authority of the self-declared occupying powers, with the right to direct the disbursement of funds from Iraqi oil revenues. A vital role for the UN means its involvement in setting up, as soon as possible, a legitimate and representative government of Iraqis, in lifting sanctions and in providing urgent humanitarian aid. Why have running water and electricity not yet been restored? How many must die before we get medical supplies into hospitals and clean up the unexploded ordnance? Where are the police that the UN could send to help restore law and order? We need to give the people of Iraq a better life or their hardship will become anger towards the occupying powers. A vital or central role for the UN also means readmitting Hans Blix and his weapons inspectors to verify what has happened to the weapons of mass destruction which remain unaccounted for. Their existence and the claim that they could be used within 45 minutes were central to the case for war. The weapons inspectors have the international legitimacy and credibility to complete the job they were asked to do, in cooperation with American and British forces on the ground. The tragic events of Monday night in Saudi Arabia remind us of the continuing instability in the region. That is why my group welcomes the visit of Colin Powell, marking the re-engagement of the United States in the peace process. For lasting peace in the region and a successful rebuilding of Iraq, we must simultaneously take forward the Quartet's roadmap for peace in Israel and Palestine. – Mr President, in 1997 the process by which fixed and mobile telephony and television and the Internet were increasingly coming together was known by the buzz word 'convergence'. The Commission adopted a much heralded Green Paper on this subject which promised a brave new world of horizontal regulation across platforms. The reality was much more prosaic. Convergence did not happen quite to the extent predicted and the Commission confined itself largely to revising the telecommunications regulation package to take account of new technology. Since that time, however, we have witnessed a wave of mergers and take-overs in the media with the emergence of vast conglomerates such as AOL Time Warner, CBS, Viacom and Vivendi Universal. Yet the Commission has not explored the idea of cross-media ownership and media concentration in any detail since its 1994 follow-up to the Green Paper on pluralism and media concentration. The Commission's silence on such an important issue seems particularly strange because the European Parliament has been calling for a directive on a level playing field and media pluralism since the 1990s. I recognise that regulating the media is a highly sensitive issue. The media is not like any other industry as it lies at the heart of our culture, our way of life. A diverse and pluralistic media is fundamental to democracy, freedom and cultural diversity. But in view of the trend towards media concentration, towards the dominance of certain media conglomerates, my group believes it is high time that we come back to this issue. What are the principles which should underlie our approach? First of all we must recognise that a thriving media is the hallmark of a free society. If control of the media becomes too narrowly restricted in the hands of a small number of people this poses a danger for democracy. The media needs to be sufficiently diverse for all important points of view in society to be effectively presented. Otherwise there is a danger that dominant media players can restrict access to information and thereby move public opinion. Avoiding media concentration is also important to our economy. Some have argued that with the explosion of different types of media, including digital, satellite and cable television, as well as the Internet, monopolistic control is impossible. However, many of these different channels of communication are now controlled by the same media conglomerates, which can thereby cross-promote these services and provide incentives or pressure advertisers to buy space or air time in other media they control. Last but not least, media concentration has implications for our cultural diversity. A Europe in which the media is dominated by a few major players risks being one in which certain regions, cultures and minority groups are granted less access to the media. A diverse media is likely to result in more home-grown original content, whereas large media groups may not resist the temptation to fill their air time with cheap imported programmes and repeats. For the ELDR Group there is a clear case to look again at this issue. My questions to the Commission today are: what action does the Commission propose to take? If the Commissioner takes the view, as I suspect he may, that there is no legal basis for action, I would remind him of the articles of the Treaty governing the single market. I would remind him too that Article 11 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights guarantees media pluralism and if that Charter is integrated into a new constitutional treaty, as Liberal Democrats hope it will be, would that not provide a necessary legal base for action? Will the Commission undertake to bring forward a White Paper updating its 1994 communication in the light of technological change and developments in the industry? It seems to me that we cannot ignore the dangers that media concentration poses to our society. The power of media ownership now frequently extends across national borders. Given that a free and diverse media is essential to our continent's democracy, prosperity and cultural vitality, it is high time that politicians face up to their responsibilities and return to this issue. – Mr President, on a point of order: it will hardly surprise the House if, on behalf of my Group, I support the position you have taken. But I would nonetheless urge you in your intervention at the European Council in Barcelona to make the point very strongly that we as a House are not happy with the procedure that has been taken and that we hope in the future to see a much more constructive and collaborative approach to us from the other institutions. – Mr President, we should not lightly move Question Time to the Commission. It is all very well to play high politics in this House but to many of our Members Question Time to the Commission is extremely important. Indeed, much of our work of scrutinising of the Commission is done through Question Time. I accept the case on this occasion, since we wish to have representatives of the Council and the Commission present for the debate. However, I would appeal to my colleagues in the other groups that we do not make a habit of moving Question Time to the Commission. It is an important part of our work. Our view on the question of the vote is that we are in a very fast-moving situation. We will certainly know more by Thursday than we will by Wednesday. There is a good case on this occasion for taking that vote on Thursday lunchtime and not on Wednesday. Mr President, it has been a while since everybody left a European Council meeting smiling. I congratulate the presidency on a focused summit that delivered in many respects. This summit suggested that there is another Europe: one that can actually get things done. European Liberal Democrats and Reformers welcome the new will to reach agreement on a European Constitution by the June European Council. President-in-Office, a combination of events and canny diplomacy have paved the way for agreement. In the words of an Irish blessing, 'may the road rise up to meet you'. This House badly wants a deal, but our terms have not changed and will not change. We expect a treaty based closely on the Convention text. We expect the Council to respect the budgetary powers of Parliament and extend democracy in our Union through qualified majority voting and greater codecision. We expect the Council to make the difficult compromises needed in good faith and then go back to sell those compromises at home. This show will not be over in June. Ratification is a mountain still to climb. This summit also acted decisively to fix the way we protect ourselves against terrorism in Europe. My Group welcomes the appointment of Gijs de Vries as anti-terrorism coordinator and demands that he be given a clear mandate to ensure he can get the job done. The next step is to reinforce the resources at Europol and set it to work: no new bureaucracy, no duplication, no more foot-dragging from European intelligence agencies who do not like to play with others. If this is not our frontline defence against terror then it is just a cheap gamble with the safety of Europeans. Liberal Democrats and Reformers also back a strong commitment to ratifying existing instruments such as the European Arrest Warrant. We have proposed an implementation league table that will name and shame states which take lightly the safety of their citizens. The weekend's decisive tone has to translate into action. Let us be clear about that new decisive tone. Let us remember what Europeans – what Madrileños – had to endure. This House has been urging a more concerted policy on terrorism since before 11 September 2001. Let us recall that when the Commission asked for EUR 15 million for counter-terrorism intelligence last year, the Council offered EUR 1 million. Europeans deserve better. A counter-terrorism policy conceived in panic is far too likely to invade private lives and erode public freedoms. On biometrics, on passenger data transfers – that is what we are in danger of getting. My Group wishes to remind the Council that it has once again ignored the explicit demand of this House that it discuss detention without trial at Guantanamo Bay and that it commit to raising that issue with the Americans at the EU-US summit. Any European government that reckons on the issue going away has not reckoned on the will of this House. My Group welcomes the commitment in Council to speeding up the pace of reform on the Lisbon Agenda. We remind the Council that 40% of the single market directives have not been implemented in all Member States. We remind the Council that the Growth and Stability Pact must be revived this year so that Europeans can have confidence in the sound management of Europe's economy. The tone of public debate in Germany and France suggests that European governments are not properly making the case for reform at home, whatever they may say in Brussels. Before this summit I called for a sense of urgency on three areas: terrorism, the IGC and economic reform. To paraphrase W. B. Yeats, of our quarrels with others we make rhetoric, of our quarrels among ourselves we make poverty. The summit showed a willingness to get back to the business of Europe. Let us hope the political will holds and the momentum lasts – for all of our sakes. – Mr President, many of us never thought we would witness in our lifetimes the fall of the Berlin Wall. That event changed the face of Europe and heralded a process of emancipation for our neighbours in central and eastern Europe which is nearing its conclusion. It is worth reminding ourselves of the 13 long years this process has taken as the siren voices of the sceptics seek to dash enlargement on the rocks. In a previous debate, I described enlargement as a process of continuous assessment, not a one-off exam. I thank Mr Prodi for presenting today the Commission's assessment of the readiness of the applicant states to join the European Union which marks those countries' completion of a major assignment in that process. They are now approaching the final examination at the Copenhagen Summit. The prospects look good although they still have some hard work to do in the months ahead if they are to make the grade. The Liberal Democrat Group has always sought to apply the Copenhagen criteria and the timetable, not to elevate one above the other. We, therefore, welcome the Commission's conclusion that the ten applicant states will be ready to join the European Union by 2004, but that monitoring of their preparations will continue. A reinforced monitoring system is necessary because the overview provided by the Commission clearly shows that there are deficiencies in the readiness of those applicant countries and we should be open about this. If we are to convince our own people of the case for enlargement, it must be clear that we are not sweeping problems under the carpet. Openness about those problems and the measures taken to tackle them will make us better able to reassure the doubters. I therefore call on the Commission to transmit to Parliament all the regular enlargement reports which it will make to Council. If we await the comprehensive monitoring report six months before enlargement, the Commission may have no alternative but to impose safeguards since the nuclear option of suspending enlargement may not be viable. I hope that the threat of those safeguards will be sufficient to ensure that they are not used. Neither should we forget, however, that it is not only our own voters who have to be convinced. There are referenda to be won in the applicant states. Critics in those countries who compare the European Union to the old Soviet Union are confusing a jacket with a straightjacket. Yet we must show those countries that they will benefit from enlargement from year one. This means a generous financial settlement which precludes them becoming net contributors in the short term. By introducing a secession clause in a new constitutional treaty, we would also assuage any fears that to join the European Union is to throw away the keys to freedom. My group is deeply worried that corruption remains widespread and that much work must be done to implement the  in justice and home affairs. We must be firm on the failings of the candidate countries, yet we must recognise that the report before us today is only a progress report. My own country struggled to meet the criteria 15 months before accession. Thirty years later, some might say that it is still struggling. One thing is clear, however. The monitoring of compliance with EU laws and respect for the Union's values is not a process which should end upon accession. The Liberal Group welcomes the date of 2007 along with a roadmap for Bulgaria and Romania. The steps which they need to take must be clearly outlined by the Commission in time for Copenhagen, so that they are clear on what needs to be done. The recent reforms undertaken by the Turkish Government represent a real breakthrough and, while no date can be set for Turkey's accession until the political criteria are met, we will watch with interest the implementation of these reforms. Turkey must be offered a pre-accession strategy accompanied by more financial support and a friendlier political environment. We must show the world that we are not an elite Christian club. The question of Cyprus will also have to be resolved to smooth the way for Turkey's entry. Here we look to Greece and Turkey to help broker an agreement before the Copenhagen Summit. The prospect of the whole of Cyprus joining the EU would start the Greek Presidency on a positive note which we hope would conclude, in Thessaloniki, with a summit symbolising reconciliation. In conclusion, the enlargement marathon is nearing the finish line. Despite the exertions thus far, the participants must be prepared for a sprint finish. Once they cross the line in Copenhagen, they will have little time to celebrate, the training for the next marathon begins – the marathon of meeting the  and achieving democratic endorsement of the enlargement process. Mr President, on behalf of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Group I congratulate the President of the Commission on assembling a talented team of new Commissioners from the ten new Member States, France and Spain. We welcome the political balance that is found among the ten, as well as the presence of three women. My Group will be giving its support to the enlarged Commission when we vote at noon today. The European Union needs a strong, legitimate and accountable Commission, capable of providing political vision and leadership. Our leaders must reflect this in the Constitutional Treaty and in their nominations for the next Commission President – but we cannot have a strong Commission until this House takes more seriously its role as the third branch of European government. Once in every five years this Parliament is the Union's personnel officer. We are there to take the proper measure of those appointed to the Commission or its presidency. To date our hearings of Commissioners have been handicapped by too much partisanship and too little sustained, in-depth questioning. So all of the Commissioners nominated in November can expect tough questioning from MEPs of the political centre, the kind of questioning that was too little in evidence at last month's hearings. This Commission is the first for a new enlarged Europe and the imperative for Liberals in this House is to ensure that it is effective, committed and competent. It is also important that we restate and establish once and for all the long-standing principle of individual responsibility of Commissioners to Parliament for their policies and their departments. It is inevitable that the work of this Commission will bind that of the next, just as the work of this Parliament will not be undone on 14 June. Like any executive, the Commission aims to provide continuity in the management of Europe's business. Much of this business has political import, yet there should be no suggestion that business cannot be done simply because the Commission is approaching the end of its term. That argument not only impugns the professionalism of the Commission and its officials, but it parades a tenuous grasp of the European agenda. The Commission's mandate is for the running of the European Union and yet there seem to be some in this House who would have it closed down for the summer. Do they not envisage that the settlement of the European Union's budget for the next seven years or the question of Turkish membership might make some demands on the Commission's attention between now and November?  To close down the Commission's right of initiative at this point would not only be wildly impractical, it would be downright irresponsible. Let us read between the lines here. My Group will not be party to efforts to paint the Prodi Commission as a lame duck. Nor will we be a part of attempts to manufacture that lameness now by restraining the Commission's powers. European Commissioners are bound to leave their politics at the water's edge. This House should show a similar maturity. The treaties require a degree of impartiality from Commissioners that would be difficult to counterfeit and that is why, for all their posturing, the critics of Mr Prodi have yet to provide any evidence that his other interests have negatively affected his work in Brussels. European Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House have had their share of criticism of some of the Commission's policies but we have always recognised its individual talents and its collective commitment. This week we need only think of the extraordinary work of Commissioner Verheugen in helping secure a successful European enlargement. The new Commission will begin its term with one thing in its favour. Many familiar faces are likely to be there again in November. This continuity can and should be an asset. Likewise the Commission must have the necessary latitude over the next five months to prepare the ground and to maintain the momentum necessary to make it a success. Indeed, to insist on anything else – especially just to pay party political dues – is risible. Mr President, I have in front of me 26 candles. I am aware that this could set off a fire alarm and would therefore be grateful if you would allow me to make this point in advance of the report by the President-in-Office of the Council. I would like to ask the President-in-Office to comment on one issue which was not raised at the summit and which the Liberal Group feels should have been raised: the continued detention without trial of 26 European nationals at Guantanamo Bay. These 26 candles are a symbol that these detainees should not be forgotten and, indeed, I hope that these 26 and all 600 detainees will have access to justice. I would ask the Italian Presidency, on behalf of the European Union, to raise this at every opportunity with the US Administration and to place it on the agenda for the next EU-US summit. The President-in-Office complains that he is a victim of injustice before the law himself and so he should be particularly concerned about this very real injustice on a far greater scale. Mr President, I will not go into the substance of this matter since we all know what it is about. My Group has no objection to taking part in 600 votes tomorrow, but we have a clear preference for your suggestion that we simply vote on the original report paragraph by paragraph. A long voting session is already foreseen, colleagues on both sides have had their say, and, therefore, I propose to you that we follow your suggestion of voting on the original report paragraph by paragraph. Mr President, in January Liberals in this House welcomed the presidency's strong focus on the Lisbon Agenda. Your priorities for the Spring Summit have restated that commitment. Europe is stuck in second gear. As America accelerates, as a resurgent Asia pulls into the passing lane, Europe is trailing behind. We must not let the recovery fool us. If Europe is picking up speed it has more to do with the slope of the road than with the state of our engine. As Commissioner Lamy said a week ago, we have oversold expectations of Lisbon and we have underinvested in results. Any sustained economic recovery in Europe has to be built on job creation. An export-led return to growth could conceal an American-style jobless recovery that will leave us no better off when the road levels out or when the next climb begins. More and better employment is the key to sustained growth and prosperity and the only sustainable route to social cohesion. We cannot allow recovery to be a fig leaf for governments reluctant to reform. A return to growth can only hide the weaknesses of the European economy; it cannot remove them. A failure to use the good times to gain leverage against the bad is the very failing that did for the Stability and Growth Pact. This summit must rebuild that pact around a new order of commitment to financial discipline and debt management. Governments must free people to work the hours they choose and keep the flexibility they need. We have to make work pay and open new ways into work for women and older people. We have to end the failures in education and re-education that are limiting the potential of too many Europeans. We have to invest more in research and development and foster more competitiveness and innovation. The only European social model that matters is the one that preserves our common prosperity for the future. We need to set attainable targets and concentrate on delivery. We know what needs doing. We need delivery on policy, not wish lists and hand-wringing. Another 'high level group' will simply deliver another expensive tranche of obvious conclusions. While my Group supports job creation and the return of older workers to the employment market, we had more in mind than consultancy positions for retired prime ministers. The presidency has rightly identified the need for European governments to act more decisively, not only in Council but at home. In many cases the commitments made in Council have been allowed to stall at the transposition stage. The latest figures from the Commission show that last month 131 internal market directives – that is 8.5% of the total – have not been fully implemented in at least one Member State – in breach of their own deadlines! We need to be tougher on policing the internal market. This Spring Summit has to be about delivery. Before June, Liberal Democrats in this House expect final decisions on crucial measures to assist European worker mobility, including in the area of the mutual recognition of qualifications; we want real progress on a framework directive on services, and we feel that it is past time for agreement on a financial services action plan that can free up Europe's capital markets. The Lisbon Agenda gave us a decade to reform. Five years on, too little has been done. We cannot afford to be standing here five years from now wondering how we let Europe get left behind. – Madam President, the establishment of the ICC marks a huge step forward in enforcing, at a global level, the principle of the rule of law which is fundamental to all liberal democracies. While ad hoc tribunals, such as those for Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia, are doing invaluable work, there is no substitute for a permanent court with the mandate and legitimacy to prosecute criminals wherever they may hide. We need only look at Croatia's refusal to hand over General Bobetko to The Hague on the grounds that Croatia was not the aggressor, to see the problems which can arise. In negotiations on the Rome Statute, Europe bent over backwards to achieve an outcome which would accommodate American concerns. It is therefore a matter of deep regret to Liberal Democrats in this House that a number of countries have refused to sign the Rome Statute for the ICC. These countries include Iran, Iraq, North Korea and the United States. If we follow the old adage 'you will be judged by the company you keep', what message does the USA's presence in this group of refusniks send to the world? Especially when taken in conjunction with America's disavowal of the Kyoto protocol, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and the Biological Weapons Convention. It is bad enough that the USA is refusing to ratify the Rome Statute, but to try to strangle it at birth by reaching bilateral agreements with countries such as Israel and Romania in order to prevent its nationals being surrendered to the ICC is terrible. UN Security Council Resolution 1422 also sets a dangerous precedent and should not be renewed next July. The European Union should do its utmost to avoid undermining the ICC before it has even begun its work. I therefore urge the President-in-Office of the Council to recognise the storm-clouds gathering over this issue and to pull the EU Member States together under one umbrella. In an age of instability it is understandable that the EU wishes to avoid a breakdown in transatlantic relations, but any agreement with the USA must be supported by all EU countries and be consistent with the Rome Statute. Another failure on our part to show unity would further undermine the EU's credibility in foreign affairs. We must get our own house in order. The countries wishing to join us, including the Czech Republic, Lithuania and Malta, must understand that the values the ICC represents are fundamental to the European Union, and that speedy ratification of the Rome Statute would prevent any delay in their accession. We urge Romania not to ratify its bilateral agreement with the USA, and it is also important for the Union to act together within the ICC in terms of financial support and the appointment of judges, the prosecutor and staff. By acting together, Europe can contribute greatly to making the ICC work, and thereby reassure the USA that the Court is serious and poses no threat to their law-abiding nationals. We must work to bring the Americans on board at a later date. Neither government must forget that we are accountable to the court of world public opinion. In conclusion, Madam President, the ICC is a symbol of the world for which we strive – a world in which human rights and international law will be upheld everywhere, and most of all, a world in which no shelter will be given to those guilty of the vilest crimes. Let us work together to enable the court to get off to a flying start when it becomes operational in January. Madam President, I too apologise to the President-in-Office and the Commissioner, but I must leave the debates, since I must chair a meeting of my party. – Mr President, an eminent and noble friend of mine recounts how he became convinced of the need for regime change in Iraq when during the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait Iraqi soldiers put Kuwaiti prisoners of war into manholes, closed the covers, poured petrol through the air vents and set them alight. Few can be unaware of the barbarity of Saddam Hussein's regime, either towards his own citizens or towards others, and for that reason I applaud the initiative of my friend and colleague, Mr Rutelli, in seeking to establish an international criminal tribunal for Iraq. Iraq has been under notice from the international community for over a decade and our patience on the issue of disarmament is running very thin. For Liberals in this House good relations between Europe and the United States of America are of huge importance. Our commitment to shared values, our commitment to economic and cultural ties reflected in our military alliance are things that we hold dear. We share America's pain about the attacks of 11 September, and not just because European citizens were among those so brutally murdered. But we do not share the US President's view that war against Iraq is justified at this stage. The report presented by Hans Blix to the UN Security Council last Friday does not make a case for immediate military action. On the contrary, he reported substantial disarmament and, while he recognised that cooperation was by no means immediate, he welcomed it as active, even proactive. His report showed that inspections are delivering tangible results for the weapons inspectors, sufficient to be given the additional months needed to complete Iraqi disarmament. To pull the rug from under Hans Blix's feet and resort to war now, would be incomprehensible to moderate opinion around the world. I would ask our American friends to pause and reflect, if only for a few minutes, on some fundamental questions. Will a regime change in Iraq help bring to justice Al-Qaeda terrorists? Will upheaval in a secular Arab state advance the cause of peace between Israel and Palestine? And would not the cost of continued vigilance, resilience and patience be lower than the cost of war and reconstruction? We must not underestimate the casualties of war, and not only the human casualties, though they would be many and costly, but the diplomatic casualties of which the collapse of the reconciliation talks in Cyprus is perhaps the first. As the crisis unfolds we are also approaching a critical moment for the future credibility of the United Nations and a world order based on the rule of law. The remarkable unity displayed by the international community last November in agreeing unanimously to Resolution 1441 is in danger of falling apart. We are witnessing the unedifying sight of the pro- and anti-war factions in the Security Council seeking to win over the undecided countries through bullying, bribery and even blackmail. The dignity and integrity of the United Nations is at stake. Having gone down the UN route to achieve Iraqi disarmament, a decision which my group warmly welcomed at the time, the United States must stick with the multilateral route. For the US to disregard a UN decision against early military action would deal a potentially fatal blow to the United Nations. It does not matter whether this decision is reached because of the failure to muster the required nine votes or because of a French or Russian veto. A veto one opposes will always be less reasonable than a veto one imposes. Yet rules are rules, and UN backing for military action must not be circumvented on the grounds that a veto is 'unreasonable'. It would be far better for any vote on a new resolution to be postponed until a consensual outcome can be achieved. The elements of a consensus can be readily identified, if only the artificial demands of a pre-determined military timetable could be set aside. Mr President-in-Office, you have told us that war can still be avoided. The gates of the Temple of Janus have been unlocked, if not yet opened. Hans Blix has set out the disarmament tasks which remain to be achieved and these tasks could be set out in a new resolution as clearly defined benchmarks to be met by Iraq in the coming months. Recognising that Iraq has only moved as far as it has because of the threat of military force, why not keep up the pressure until the process is completed? If Saddam Hussein fails to meet the benchmarks in the resolution, then the diplomatic and inspections options will have been exhausted and the international community would have the moral authority and legitimacy to resort to war. In conclusion, it is claimed in London, Washington and Madrid that war could be short, swift and successful. With UN support this could indeed be the case, but without it, in a conflict which divides the international community, we could be on the brink of another Hundred Years War which could bring down regimes well beyond Iraq. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, looking at the balance sheet of the Greek Presidency, the items on the plus side of the ledger well outnumber those on the negative side. Given Europe's difficulties in the last six months with the Iraq war and economic stagnation, that is a remarkable tribute to your government. Your first priority, rightly, was to meet the timetable for enlargement of the European Union. The signing of the Accession Treaties beneath the Acropolis and seven successful referenda have amply met this goal. Our joy at Europe's reunification is nonetheless tinged with sadness that Greece was unable to exploit its privileged relationships to bring in a united Cyprus. Please do not cease your efforts. We also regret the tensions which surfaced between 'new' and 'old' Europe over Iraq, despite your best efforts and two common positions to your credit. Bringing the Convention's draft Constitutional Treaty safely into port also deserves to be chalked up as a notable success of your presidency. The Liberal Democrats in this House agree with you. The draft text agreed by the Convention provides a good basis for the Constitution, and we will hold Member State governments to the commitments they have made. We welcome the extra time given to the Convention to complete its work on Part III, though for the Council to describe the remaining discussions on majority voting and codecision as 'purely technical work' is a masterpiece of understatement worthy of the British Government's description of the whole process as just a 'tidying-up exercise'. The vanity of victory teaches us far less than the humiliation of defeat and Europe's failure over Iraq seems to have had some beneficial consequences, notably in driving forward European cooperation in security and defence policy. The establishment of the rapid reaction force, the launching of operations in Bosnia, FYROM and the Congo are certainly pluses. However, the weaknesses in the quality and coordination of European defence spending are clearly negatives, which we hope will be remedied by the new Armaments Agency. Our failure over Iraq also helped you adopt two remarkable documents at Thessaloniki: Mr Solana's EU security strategy and the Council's declaration on weapons of mass destruction. The security strategy provides a fitting European response to the US doctrine, resting as it does on the European principles of multilateralism and prevention rather than pre-emption. The statement on WMD makes clear to our American friends that we are taking the threat of these weapons seriously, and offers a framework for Europe's response to Iran and North Korea. You made Justice and Home Affairs the centrepiece of your presidency programme. Much has been achieved, though justice and freedom still play second fiddle to security, to the European Union's discredit. Commitments to further progress on legal migration and the integration of third country nationals are a fitting riposte to those who sought to repeat in Thessaloniki the kind of headlines which shamed Seville. However, my group regrets that you did not provide for proper parliamentary scrutiny, at European or national level, of the recent EU-US extradition agreement. On economic reform the Hellenic Presidency has made good progress, notably reforming the Stability Pact to target underlying deficits, concluding the energy liberalisation package and adopting the much-needed pensions directive. All in all, this has been a profitable six months for the European Union, despite the huge costs of war and the difficult economic position. Let us hope that, as you hand the baton to your successors, they too will run hard to keep up the Olympian lead that you have established. Mr President, on behalf of the ELDR Group I would like to congratulate the Commission, and Commissioner Bolkestein in particular, on his efforts to try to reach agreement with the United States on such a difficult matter. My Group regrets that he has not been more successful in persuading the United States to respect our concerns about data privacy. My Group cannot agree on the choice of legal basis. While, as Mr Bolkestein says, the agreement does not formally amend our data protection directive, it clearly amends the law as it applies to European Community citizens by making us subject to US law in this area, and the absence of protection in US law is precisely our concern. There is a huge democratic deficit when the Commission comes forward with a proposal like this and does not give either the European Parliament or national parliaments the chance to say yes or no. Now, as Mr Bolkestein informs us, that the information being passed to the United States' authorities may be passed on to third country authorities, we should be seriously concerned. There have been three debates and votes in this House on the matter. Three committees have examined it and all recommended a referral to the Court of Justice. My Group does not seek a dispute with the Commission. We have asked the Commission to withdraw this proposal and to try to negotiate with the Americans and present to us and the US Congress a full-blown international agreement to cover these issues so that we can effectively fight terrorism together while respecting our commitments to data privacy. We would prefer the Commission to do that, but if the Commission cannot do it, perhaps at least at its meeting tomorrow the Commission could agree to take the initiative in referring the matter to the Court of Justice to decide whether there is adequacy. – Mr President, I thank the President-in-Office and the Commissioner for a helpful introduction to this debate and I congratulate the rapporteurs for their good work on the reports before us today. I also take this opportunity to welcome to this House the parliamentarians from the Liberal family in the applicant states who are watching this debate from the gallery and have joined us to debate the issues this week. That parliamentarians from Bulgaria and Romania are here today is a welcome reminder that we are negotiating enlargement with 12 applicant states, even if the timescales for accession may differ a little. Those of us from countries that were not founder members of the European Community remember only too well the anxiety and sense of expectation which surrounded our entry negotiations and the decisions to ratify our application. Coming from a country which had its application vetoed twice, I know of the enduring damage done to perceptions of European integration when a country is rejected. We should bear this in mind in assessing the current applicants. We must recognise that the applicant states have worked hard in recent years to reform their economies and consolidate democracy in order to join the Union. While we expect them to redouble their efforts in the run-up to and after accession, we must also reward those efforts. That is why Liberal Democrats insist that both the criteria and the timetable must be respected. We should not apply stricter standards than for previous enlargements, nor pretend that everything in our own gardens smells sweet. Enlargement is a process of continuous assessment, not a one-off exam. There are hotheads and faint hearts on both sides who will seek to exploit difficulties in meeting the Copenhagen criteria. We must not allow them to derail enlargement. It is far better to overcome outstanding problems through the enlargement process. What is important to the health of a country is the direction in which its face is set and the screening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms must be an ongoing process, part of a wider scrutiny of all Member States – old and new – in a European Union with the Charter of Fundamental Rights at its heart. Liberal Democrats deplore the abuse of enlargement negotiations to reopen old wounds and animosities. The infamous Beneš decrees are a good example of this. It serves no useful purpose to inflame tensions on this issue, which is why my group has tabled amendments to Mr Brok's report to seek to lower the temperature of the debate. The refusal of four governments – including Mr Murphy's – at the General Affairs Council this week to reach agreement on a common position on agriculture stems in part from the inadequacy of the financing package agreed in Berlin. We are constrained to live within Berlin's limits, but if a deal is postponed until autumn – as some propose – this would jeopardise the prospect of admitting new Member States in time for the European Parliament elections in 2004. We support the Commission's proposals to phase-in direct payments but, as soon as enlargement is agreed, we must take forward reform of the CAP. We need to shift the focus away from the producer onto the consumer, from quantity to quality. On the controversial issue of free movement of persons, I urge all Member States to follow the lead of Denmark, Sweden, Ireland and the Netherlands, which have said they will apply no restrictions to free movement. There are no rational grounds for believing that enlargement will be followed by the mass migration sometimes feared by our citizens. It is precisely these fears which we, as politicians, have to tackle head on. We have a responsibility to make the case for enlargement to our electorates and we must not shrink from that challenge. The adoption of the report to be voted on tomorrow will give the green light to enlargement. The historic prospect beckons of a wider, stronger Union – a bulwark for freedom and democracy in an uncertain world. Let ours not be the generation which flunks this opportunity. Mr President, I do not wish to go into the content of this particular opinion poll, although it certainly would have been wise for the poll to have asked what people thought of the Palestinian State and of the Palestinian Liberation Organisation. It is not a bad thing, however, that people know what Europe thinks. I would, in general, encourage the Commission to publish information  of this or any other nature  on the views of Europeans, to show the importance of opinion on our continent. –  Mr President, President of the Convention, I too have the honour of congratulating a predecessor for the impressive work he has done, but I cannot continue in the vein of Charles Aznavour and say ‘You are for me, formidable’. – Mr President, it is sometimes hard to keep a clear head when grievances fill the air and I think we are seeing the results of that. It is clear that certain allegations have been made about the activity of certain Commissioners and others in a case involving fisheries, but this matter has been considered by the Conference of Presidents. The Fisheries Committee has been asked to look into it and report back to the Conference of Presidents and I understand that the Budgetary Control Committee is also looking into it. It is important that we allow due process to take place in Parliament before raising these issues in plenary. It is also important that we do not mix the question of these allegations with a very important communication that the Commission has brought forward on the future of the common fisheries policy on how to safeguard fish stocks for future generations. So I would ask you, Mr President, to ask Mr Schulz, on behalf of the Socialist Group, to bring this back to the Conference of Presidents in due course. Mr President, the Liberal Group in this House welcomes the Italian Presidency's initiative to associate the President of this House more closely with the work of the European Council. Nonetheless the overwhelming feeling of the European Liberal Democrats is one of disappointment at the outcome of the European Council. We fear that it may be recalled, if at all, as a summit distinguished more by what it failed to discuss and agree than for what it actually achieved. One issue that was not raised is the continued detention, without charge or trial, of 26 European nationals at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba of whom I spoke earlier. As a symbol for them, I have in front of me 26 candles. I am sorry that the President-in- Office did not respond to my invitation to say a few words this morning about the continued detention of those European nationals and, indeed, of all 600 detainees. It seems to my Group that their detention without charge is a scandal and that the failure of European Union leaders in the Council presidency to keep the matter on their radar screen must be remedied. This House is no less concerned by the situation in Chechnya. The wrongs which are being committed daily, in the name of the fight against terrorism, will hasten the rainfall of revenge which refills the tributaries of terror. With less than two months to go until the end-of-the-year summit, by which time we are supposed to reach agreement on a new Constitution, the presidency had no time to lose. We fear that an opportunity for progress may have been missed. But handed an agenda with little real substance, EU leaders gave back even less. I question whether it was wise for the Italian Presidency not to push for decisions on the Constitution or to make compromise proposals now rather than leaving things to November. That may be too late – politics, like nature, abhors a vacuum. The lack of proposals has encouraged some countries to retreat from the Convention's agreement, and Poland and Spain to get a hearing for their self-interested sentimentality for the discarded agreements of Nice. The crucial common defence clauses were discussed 'over dinner' but apart from Mr Blair's welcome U-turn on structured cooperation, we appear to have achieved little apart from giving America indigestion. Nor was there substantive progress on economic reform. While we welcome the European growth initiative and the refocusing away from spending on white elephant transport projects towards investment in R[amp]D, the real focus to get back to growth must be progress on structural reform. We would have liked to see the Council putting its legislative money where its mouth is and building the dynamic, open economy we were promised at Lisbon. Progress on Justice and Home Affairs was limited, with little forward movement on the important issues of immigration and asylum. The one positive development, the creation of a European agency to manage the security of our expanding borders, was again agreed beforehand and merely rubber-stamped. The flip side of the coin is the proposal for biometric indicators for passports and visas which should have set civil liberty alarm bells ringing loudly but which seemed not to trouble the summit at all. President-in-Office, much rests on your November compromise text for the Constitution. It will be your last throw of the dice and we wish you luck since we fear you may need it! Mr President, Liberals in this House expected rather more from the presidency of a country with a proud European tradition. In six short months, the presidency has conspired to undermine the Stability Pact, has shown contempt for the European Union's policy towards Russia and offended Canada. The President-in-Office has treated us to a 40-minute catalogue of the achievements of his term of office. Yet it is hard to escape the conclusion that this presidency and IGC have been a personal failure for the President of the European Council. The 'piece of paper' in Mr Berlusconi's pocket turned out to be a -stained napkin with a few bad jokes scribbled on it. The President came to the IGC poorly prepared; he ignored the warnings of this House that holding back compromise proposals would produce this kind of stalemate.  While the Americans were digging Saddam Hussein out of a hole in Iraq to global acclaim, our leaders were digging themselves into a hole in Brussels. A successful summit needed two things: political will on the part of the major countries, and skilful diplomatic leadership. It showed neither. This IGC was not fated to fail  it chose to. Five countries walked away from an agreement which everybody needed but none of them wanted enough. Yes, a delayed deal is better than a bad one. But the problem with postponing a decision by kicking it into the long grass is that you might not find it again. Especially with a crowded agenda ahead which includes negotiations on the next financial perspectives, talks on Turkish membership and elections in Spain, Britain and Italy. So after a short post-mortem, the IGC must resume and must conclude its work under the Irish presidency. The Irish have Mr Ahern, one of Europe's most seasoned negotiators, and Mr Cox, the President of our own House, whose joy at the Charlemagne Prize we share. It may be possible to relaunch the European Union. Our first Constitution deserves public debate and endorsement, and that requires a Treaty before the European elections in June 2004. I would like to underline the extent of the concern felt by Liberal Democrats and Reformers in this House and beyond and our feeling that the actions of the larger Member States are plunging the European Union into a crisis which could endanger the democratic nature of our Union. The summit conclusions are also a disappointment to us. There is nothing on Guantanamo Bay, despite the explicit demand of this House that our leaders should uphold the rights of the detainees. On Russia, the conclusions scandalously make no reference to elections which the OSCE called 'a regression in the democratisation process'.  The decision to bring the People's Republic of China into the Galileo programme seems to have encouraged talk of the lifting of the European embargo on selling arms to the world's only significant remaining Communist dictatorship.  On all these issues, the Council behaved as if it is ashamed of our values  or ignorant of them altogether. At your press conference after the summit, President-in-Office, you said that but for the IGC, your presidency would be remembered as 'the most glorious of recent years'. Yet agreement on the five issues mentioned by the President of the Commission represents a meagre return on a presidency in which such high hopes were invested. If this was a glorious success, I would be fascinated to know your definition of a failure. You set your presidency the target of a Constitution by Christmas. By your own standards, you have failed. – Mr President, for the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, the key test of Seville was the agreement on immigration and asylum which elevated discussion beyond the search for cheap newspaper headlines and into the core of the challenge. A casual reader of the newspapers in the run-up to Seville might have believed that the Prime Minister of Spain was playing Don José to Tony Blair's Carmen in a passionate but deadly delusion about using development aid as a weapon in the crackdown on illegal migrants. We, therefore, welcome the success of Prime Minister Verhofstadt and others in redressing the balance of the European Council's draft conclusions. In particular we are pleased that the Council recalled the importance of economic cooperation, free trade, development aid and conflict prevention in tackling the causes of illegal immigration. I applaud the Council's emphasis on providing incentives to developing countries to cooperate in the management of migration flows rather than on suspending development aid for non-cooperation. However, rather than simply setting new targets for achieving progress on immigration and asylum, Heads of State and Government would do better to stop clogging up the decision-making process with national initiatives and to back Commission proposals under the Community method. That means using qualified majority voting to ensure that decisions can be taken. Concerning the proposals for reform of the proceedings of the Council, it is all very well for Heads of State and Government to talk about introducing greater transparency into the workings of the Council. However, this will not be achieved merely by allowing cameras into the room for a ritual round-table debate and for the votes. We need to achieve real transparency by giving access to Council documents on the Internet, from when they are first discussed by officials right up to ministerial level. It is disgraceful that Council officials in the Secretariat are refusing to make Room documents and unnumbered documents publicly available. A rationalisation of the number of Councils is no doubt called for, but it would be far better for this to be done in conjunction – as the President of the Commission said – with similar moves in Parliament and in the Commission so that lines of accountability and responsibility are clear. I am also concerned that the abolition of the Development Council could be seen as a downgrading of the Union's role in development assistance, which must not be allowed to happen. Following the Barcelona Summit, I warned in this Chamber of the danger of a credibility gap opening up if the ambitious targets set for economic reform were not implemented. In particular I called for progress to be made towards an integrated financial services market. I, therefore, warmly congratulate the Spanish Presidency on securing a deal on the pensions directive – which had been blocked in Council since July of last year – as well as agreement on the market abuse directive, because behind the sound and fury over illegal immigration it is steady progress on technical but vital issues such as these which show the worth of a presidency. – Mr President, it is a practice both in trade union and in other negotiations to use one's strength at a time when it is calculated to cause the most difficulty for those with whom one is in dispute. But in Parliament we rarely have days or votes of such significance as today. The action being threatened by the unions does not reflect fairly the mutual respect which exists within the House between the different partners, or indeed the good relations that we have generally enjoyed. You are right to proceed with our business and I would appeal to the staff of the House to assist us in carrying through today's historic task with the maximum goodwill on their part. – Mr President, I apologise to Mr Morillon for not being here when he opened the debate. This report could hardly be more timely. If – as seems likely – US and British Forces are now in control of Baghdad, then the debate on the aftermath of war and its lessons can now commence. Unlike its predecessors, the current American administration shows little interest in a strong and united Europe. Our weakness has been cruelly exposed and the onus is on the EU to develop a security strategy which may help us reshape transatlantic relations. Liberal Democrats in this House welcome the Morillon report as an important contribution to this process. Europe's divisions over Iraq have been a stark reminder of our failure to speak with one voice on security policy, and yet we should not forget that Europe does have a single trade policy, a common development policy and an embryonic European diplomatic corps in the form of the Commission's offices around the world. These are powerful instruments and would be all the more so if combined as part of an integrated foreign policy. Our foreign policy is incoherent because it is split between three Commissioners, the Council presidency and a Council High Representative, and because some Member States deny our essential commonality of interests in foreign policy, or forbid the Commission to play a central executive role. Without a common defence policy, Europe will still lack the military muscle needed for a credible common foreign policy. With combined defence spending less than half of that of the USA, it is clear the EU is not spending enough on defence, nor would our citizens be likely to welcome much higher levels of spending. So it is not enough simply to spend more: we need to spend better, especially on key requirements such as strategic airlift, precision guided weapons and air tankers. That is why the Liberal Group supports the establishment of an armaments and research agency to coordinate defence spending. What we want is to achieve better value for money, and if EU countries agree that military equipment made outside the EU best meets our needs and provides best value for money, we should not choose a European option in a misguided attempt at protectionism. That would be to repeat the mistakes of the common agricultural policy. Better defence spending must be accompanied by stronger decision-making. By sending to the European Convention, through General Morillon's report, a clear and united message in favour of a strong and effective security and defence policy, Parliament can hope to influence its deliberations. Having one external affairs representative, based in the Commission but supplemented with resources and expertise from the Member States, will go a long way towards connecting the disparate elements of foreign and security policy. We also need greater flexibility in launching and conducting crisis management operations, if necessary by greater recourse to constructive abstention. While there are clearly reservations about this, introducing a collective defence clause in the new Constitutional Treaty, similar to that under the Western European Union Treaty, also seems a necessary step. It may be that progress towards these goals cannot be made at once with the 15, let alone with 25 Member States. That is why I welcome the Belgian Government's initiative for a meeting later this month with France, Germany and Luxembourg, on defence policy. Progress in European integration is often only achieved by a group of determined countries pressing ahead, with others joining later. Nonetheless I insist that enhanced cooperation on defence must remain open to all governments who wish to join, and that the British Government in particular, given its military capability and experience, will do so. In conclusion, a European security and defence policy can usefully complement the collective security provided by NATO as long as there is rationalisation of arms procurement, added value in the form of a doctrine based on conflict prevention and crisis management and backed by the credible threat of military action, and a more coherent and unified approach to security policy. Let our security and defence policy be forged on the anvil of hope from the steel of our embarrassment over Iraq. Mr President, the Commission is in an unenviable position. Airlines are almost certainly breaking the law on data protection by giving the US authorities confidential information about their passengers. To take action would harm our airlines and may lead to disruption in travel to the US; not to act rides roughshod over individual privacy in the European Union. The Commission has sought to reach an agreement with the United States. The concerns about this agreement are widespread. They are shared by the Article 29 Committee, and quite possibly by the heads of state and government meeting last weekend, who amended the draft presidency conclusions on this issue. They are very much borne out from this House in this report. In the United States widespread criticism of methods adopted by the government in the fight against terrorism is evident, whether it is to do with the policy of detention without trial or the way in which the heavy hand of the state is being imposed in areas like this. The Commission's proposed deal on the transfer of data is a deal too far: more information is sought than is strictly necessary; that information can be held too long with no right for the individual to correct it; there is no right to compensation for people denied boarding of aircraft and no legal redress against abuse of personal data by the state. Liberal Democrats believe that it is possible to be tough on terrorism and true to the treaties we have signed on civil liberties. We bow to nobody in our determination to fight terrorism. We urge our Member States to act more effectively. We recognise the need to work with democracies across the Atlantic; but let us do so intelligently, with a response that is measured and proportionate, and not sacrifice our freedoms in our determination to fight those who threaten them. – Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the sentiments of the previous speakers on the subject of Mr Marco Biagi. President, I congratulate you on the success of your first summit as President of this House. You set out to establish this Parliament as a credible and reliable partner in the interinstitutional dialogue and to demonstrate that Parliament, for its part, has closed what Mr Prodi described as the "delivery gap". You succeeded admirably on both counts. President-in-Office, Liberal Democrats welcome a number of solid achievements at Barcelona. The increase in overseas development aid to an EU average of 0.39% of gross national income is a positive step. If the Union can go on to meet the UN target of 0.7% of gross national income, we will no longer deprive the poor of EUR 100 billion per annum in development assistance. We also applaud the Summit's emphasis on making work pay and on reducing the tax burden on the low-paid, and the agreement on the energy tax directive. We need more economic growth but it must not be at the expense of our natural environment which we hold in trust for future generations. On the Middle East, we welcome the declaration made by the European Council. We urge the Israelis and the Palestinians to start fresh talks based on United Nations Security Council Regulation 1397, to accept international observers, to respect the Geneva Convention and to renounce terrorism and indiscriminate violence. I would also like to congratulate the High Representative, Mr Solana, on the deal he brokered between Serbia and Montenegro: truly a first for European Union diplomacy. British Prime Minister Tony Blair described the Barcelona Summit as a "make-or-break" occasion. He may now regret that hyperbole, because although Barcelona undoubtedly represents a step forward on the road to economic reform, it is clear that this road will be long and winding. We must ensure that the delivery gap identified by Mr Prodi does not turn into a credibility gap due to the Council's failure to meet the multitude of targets that it sets at every Summit. One such example of a credibility gap is the partial agreement on energy liberalisation. What credibility will it have in the eyes of the our citizens if we deny them the benefits of more choice and lower energy prices? We urge the Council to support Parliament's call for a second stage of energy liberalisation to include domestic customers by 2005. The EU's credibility is also at stake in financial services. The pension funds directive has remained blocked in Council since it was adopted by Parliament at our first reading in July of last year. This is a prime example of a delivery gap which Parliament has closed but which requires more than warm words from the Council. The Council has other ambitious aspirations too, such as reaching agreement on the European Patent by May, and the Public Procurement Framework. If the credibility of these spring economic summits is not to be undermined, then Prime Ministers must apply themselves to banging heads together to make sure their national ministers make progress on these issues. If we are to close the gap, President-in-Office, between the European Union and its citizens, this will not be achieved by suspending people's rights to free movement, especially if those people wish to exercise their democratic rights to express their views in protest. Moreover, bringing the EU closer to its citizens requires progress on transparency. Paragraph 51 of the conclusions calls for ensuring greater transparency of the legislative process. However, it foresees no specific measures before June and moreover, the Secretary-General's report to Council limits the documents to be covered by transparency to those laws adopted by co-decision. This contravenes the regulation we adopted on access to documents last year which sees a much wider definition of legislative documents. You are already four months late in implementing this. We call on you to do so. Finally, in paragraph 20, the Council conclusions envisage the creation of a group of wise men. I wonder whether, at a time when you recognise the importance of women's participation in the labour force and when you express concern for the welfare of women in Nigeria, you might not, at least in this third millennium, talk about of a group of wise persons. – Mr President, I am sorry to rise to speak against my successor on an issue like this, but it seems to me that, just as we rightly ask the Committee on Budgetary Control to look at the allegations about the reform process that have been raised in some newspapers over the weekend, we should also ask the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs to look urgently at this matter. What is at stake here is the possibility of the Americans coming back to us with a request for access to databases on European airline passengers which would ride roughshod over our own data protection legislation and indeed could form a major intrusion into the civil liberties of European citizens. It seems to me that, if the House does not take a position this week, then we are impotent. We ought to be stressing very strongly our opposition to what the Americans are requesting and our opposition to any potential agreement by the Commission to such a request. – Mr President-in-Office, this House will vote tomorrow on an amendment on your National Hydrological Plan, so we hope you enjoy your glass of water today. If the European Union were drawing up an end-of-year report card on the Lisbon process, I suspect that the report would say "must try harder". Over the last year, we have seen some progress on this agenda, in particular the adoption of the telecoms package in Council, the agreement on the European company statute, reduction of the tax burden by three-quarters of 1% of GDP. All of these things help to promote growth and jobs, provided they are consistent with the growth and stability pact, and clearly we need to be shifting the tax burden away from things we want more, like jobs, and onto things that we want less of, like pollution. But I am afraid this report card would also show that the Union is failing in too many areas. The Commission communication to the Barcelona European Council speaks of a firm commitment to the growth and stability pact, which will help build confidence. If this is so, it was sadly lacking when the Finance Ministers fudged an early warning decision on Germany and Portugal just recently. The rejection of the take-over bids directive is a major setback to competitiveness in the Union and I challenge the other political groups and the Council to join us in speeding through the new Commission proposal under a fast-track procedure, so that we can get it onto the statute book by the end of this year. Another area where we have failed is the failure in Council to adopt a common position on the pensions directive which is essential, not just for a secure retirement for an elderly population, but also for labour market mobility. The European Parliament has done its job. We gave you our first reading opinion in July of last year and we now look to the Spanish Presidency to send us a common position by June of this year, if we are to meet the Commission's target of adoption by the end of this year. Another area where the schoolteacher would rap the Council over the knuckles is the European patent. If we want to close the innovation gap between Europe and the United States, we need easier and cheaper and faster pan-European patent protection. When it comes to behaviour in class, I am not sure that the Union would score well. I welcome the Commission's decision this afternoon to take the Council to the Court of Justice for an attempt to take away the Commission's powers over state aid. The reason we have state aid rules is to ensure a proper functioning of the single market and we need to abolish barriers to competition and to free trade to allow the Commission to be the policeman, and the Council should frankly be ashamed of challenging the Commission on that. Finally, our report card would show a pupil which is lacking ambition. If the European Union is to be a star pupil, we need progress on liberalisation of energy and gas markets, on implementation of the financial services action plan, on agreement of a public procurement framework. The process of economic reform is not an end in itself. It is about increasing prosperity of our people and preparing the European Union for enlargement. What message is it that we are sending to applicant states if we are incapable of implementing ourselves the demanding reforms that we are expecting of them? When it comes to reviewing what happens at Barcelona, we will be judging you by the report card. At the moment, the pupil has to work harder. Mr President, you have given 15 years of tireless service to this House and on behalf of the ELDR Group I would like to pay tribute to the leadership and the vision that you have shown during your term of office. You have proven an outstanding President of our House, raising our profile, ensuring that our voice is heard in the Council and beyond. Through your eloquence and your judicious use of the well-crafted sound bite you have communicated the practical benefits of our work to our citizens. I am proud that the first Liberal President of this House in 22 years should be one of its most successful. I would like to highlight briefly two achievements. Your energetic campaigning for enlargement and the determination you have shown in reforming this House will go down to your great credit. As my predecessor as leader of the ELDR Group, you demonstrated our commitment to enlargement by involving MPs from the candidate countries in our work. You continued with your energetic campaign for a 'yes' vote in the candidate countries and in bringing observer MEPs here to our Chamber in 2002. You have brought this Parliament closer to reforms than ever before and I have no doubt that as a result of your work we will succeed in reforming this House. We are sure that you will still have much to contribute to Europe in whatever you do in the months and the years ahead. We say today 'au revoir' with a vote of thanks and our best wishes for the future. – Mr President, Mr Verhofstadt spoke a lot about the need to improve democratic control. But we do not need to change the Treaties to improve democratic control. We can do that using the existing Treaties. I am not talking about applying Article 42 to bring the third pillar matters into the first pillar, although that would be very desirable. I am talking about instances such as that last week where Parliament was consulted for the fourth time in a year on a text of which half was missing. We were asked to approve a regulation to freeze the assets of a list of terrorist organisations; the list was not attached. The regulation referred to two Council texts, neither of which is available to Parliament. We voted on amendments covering the absent documents in view of the urgency, but if that text is not amended and, in view of this practice, Parliament really should consider recourse to the European Court of Justice unless Council is prepared to treat us in a fairer and more adult way. – Mr President, this week we are debating military conflicts in two places: Chechnya and Palestine. Both have worsened since the Western World declared war on terrorism. It seems almost as if the dominant power in each conflict has taken advantage of the anti-terrorist cause to enhance its strategic position. The impact on the lives of those caught in the crossfire, both literally and metaphorically, has been devastating. For reasons of history, humanity and security, we have a duty to intervene to prevent the fighting. Diplomacy, thus far, has failed, whether sponsored by the United Nations, the United States of America, the European Union or the neighbouring states. It is probably the Saudi peace plan which currently offers the most promising pointers to peace. The warring parties themselves offer little hope of a solution. Neither Mr Sharon nor Mr Arafat can secure peace, just as certainly as neither can impose it. Mr Arafat's record of involvement in terrorism and his continued acquiescence in abominable Palestinian terrorist acts are at least in part to blame for the current situation. The best way forward, in the view of Liberal Democrats in this House, is to establish an immediate embargo on arms exports to Israel and Palestine, and to persuade the United Nations to mount an international mission to send troops to the region to enforce peace.  Only then might the extremists be moved aside and the moderates be brought together by an honest broker in a political process in which the arguments of force give way to the force of arguments. Reckless military adventurism on one side and cynical acceptance of terrorism on the other offer only further bloodshed and misery and the deepening of mutual hatreds, which will delay and render more difficult the achievement of lasting peace. The recent Israeli military incursions into Palestinian territory have been as shocking as they have been self-defeating. The West does have levers of pressure. You, Mr Solana, must employ them. An urgent meeting of the EU-Israel Association Council should be called. On the agenda you should have Israel's refusal to allow our representatives to meet Mr Arafat; you should have its wanton destruction of EU-funded infrastructure and its violation of human rights provisions in Article No 2 of the Association Agreement. You might talk to Colin Powell tomorrow about threatening suspension of USD 3 billion of aid annually to Israel. Human rights observers should be deployed to document the plight of innocent Palestinian citizens, who suffer daily disrupted lives, random harassment, gratuitous humiliation and, in some cases, torture and death. The international community is clear on where the borders must be drawn to secure the co-existence in two states of six million Israeli and some 4 million Palestinian citizens. We cannot stand by while United Nations resolutions are flouted by an aggressive policy of settlements and a refusal to seek peace. When international law is so blatantly ignored, such bloodshed, as we have seen, is unavoidable. Those responsible must, eventually, be brought to justice. On Thursday of this week, the statute for a permanent International Criminal Court will enter into force. From Sabra and Chatila 20 years ago, to what is happening in Jenin this afternoon, Mr Sharon might reflect on whether he wishes to be among its first clients.