EN
Mr President, in 18 years I have also heard Mr Balfe speak on very many occasions and almost always I have held opinions on the subjects he has spoken about. Today I have the opportunity to speak on an amendment to the Kuckelkorn report which he has presented, in which Mr Balfe once more asks that he be treated as a European official. But he is not telling the whole truth. He forgot to mention that European officials – a body from which I am proud to come – only have one social security system. The honourable Members – amongst whom I now find myself – also only have one. He is asking for another one, so if he wants to go on asking for privileges in addition to those provided by the laws and regulations of his own country, let him do so. But since – as I hope and believe – he will not come back as an MEP in the next session, I urge Mr Balfe to prepare himself for an examination to become a European official and thereby obtain everything he has repeatedly been asking for. Mr President, when I arrived in this Parliament, 18 years ago, in a situation very different from the one that is allowing me to speak now, and even before financial perspectives were discussed, there were already arguments about own resources and the Spanish Socialists were already fighting for idea of a citizens' graduated tax system. Therefore, in the vote on the report by Mr Wynn, Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I voted with the French Socialists and with the Spanish Socialists in favour of the idea that, before enlargement, the Committee on Budgets – and this Parliament also – should have promoted the idea that to finance this Union, this Community, the easiest thing is to do it on the basis that everyone must pay, under a tax system which the citizen understands and which is not based on the tax-paying capacity of the States, but on the incomes of each of our fellow citizens. – Madam President, this is a small amendment to the Minutes. In the modification of the agenda for Thursday the subject of the British submarine in Gibraltar was discussed and there were three speakers. The speeches by Mr Poettering and Mr Barón Crespo are faithfully recorded in the Minutes, showing that one requested and the other granted the political agreement from the Group of the Europe People’s Party for it to be included in the agenda for December. But there was a third speech, by Mr Galeote Quecedo, which does not feature in the Minutes. Only his name is given. Allow me to give an explanation. This omission reflects fears, which in our opinion are unjustified, about anyone objectively reading the motion for a resolution that we are tabling, and this makes us fear that there could be further concealment in December. But, this is just an explanation. What I am asking for, with all due respect, is for Mr Galeote Quecedo’s speech to feature in the minutes. – Mr President, this is a serious and rigorous report. And Mr Graça Moura deserves the congratulations of the Socialist Group, which I pass on to him with pleasure. Culture 2000, for the reasons which have just been expressed, is an extraordinarily important programme. The joint position of the Council has not yet accepted the Parliament’s criteria and the rapporteur, reasonably, has retained in this second reading the ones which he considers to be essential. Firstly I must highlight funding. We do not understand, given the margin within the Financial Perspective, why a third of the resources which we considered minimums have been cut. On the other hand, we agree with the Council on the need for the activities of Culture 2000 to be visible to the public, but the best way to achieve this is through small and medium scale events, in diverse locations and close to the citizens, rather than events on a grand scale. The Council confuses public reaction with media reaction and forgets that in the latter case the reaction is almost always ephemeral. The Council, or rather, a small part of it, has ignored the spirit and the letter of the Treaties and specifically Article 151. It is still afraid of expressions such as “European Policy” and “European Cultural Area” etc. and prefers to carry on speaking of “partnership”. Legislating and taking action in the field of culture and education directly shapes the European soul which has so often been elusive. The system of knowledge, the human emotions which only the Arts and Letters can produce, in other words, our culture, are deeply based on what the Europeans have in common and therefore form the basis of European citizenship. I hope that the steadfastness of this Parliament, on the one hand, and the help of the new Commissioner on the other, together finally with the understanding of the Council, will all come to act together to this end. – Madam President, I request that the rapporteur and all the Members accept the following oral amendment with a view to replacing the original text of recital H with the following: Whereas an urgent review of the “Television without frontiers” Directive is necessary. It is more precise, more accurate and has the same meaning. I request your acceptance. – I am very grateful for your reply, Commissioner, which, furthermore, contains reasonable arguments, and I am glad to see that the decision to remove CONNECT is not irreversible. I must tell you that we have the opportunity to renew a budget line which is very successful and viable because, with a truly modest amount of money – as you have said – almost a hundred very interesting and innovative projects are being carried out. My supplementary question is as follows: Do you not believe that, even if only provisionally, CONNECT should be renewed as a coordination programme for the other programmes? Do you not believe that, if we remove CONNECT, it could be interpreted as a new milestone in the tendency for the issues within your competence to lose importance. I am beginning to suspect that this is what the Council intends: to see to it that all educational and cultural fields should lose importance. –  Mr President, we have before us a great own-initiative report which is so important that, in my opinion, it could easily have been called ‘Bases for a common cultural policy’, because this is what they could be if the Council takes a sensitive approach to our requests. Our cultural identity is being protected all the time and this is right and proper because it is an important part of Europe’s cultural heritage. The rapporteur himself, in a cogent phrase, defined the situation in Europe as the unity of diversities. But do the Members of the Council not think that it is also time that we discussed what is common to all our cultures, to seek it out, to cherish its common components, ways of life, customs, shared values, knowledge, art and scientific development? Do they not think that it is time to state that a European culture does indeed exist, to develop joint cultural policies and to set common objectives for all our member States? In a globalised world and given the danger of passively adopting one particular dominant culture, cultural convergence within the European Union represents a powerful political bulwark that we should not reject. To those nationalists who, from within or from outside the Union, reject the future of the European Union because, according to them, we do not share a common identity, we must reply with the words of Levy Strauss, who said: “We do not need one, because we have something much stronger: a common destiny”. The purpose of my words, Mr President, is to congratulate Mr Ruffolo for having reminded us so brilliantly of the path that we must take in the field of culture. One final comment. The request that a work of art be installed in infrastructures and installations financed with Community funds seeks not only to protect and to spread art in Europe, but to ensure that the public knows and remembers that this airport, that motorway, or such-and-such railway line, comes from the Community, a fact of which today, unfortunately, people tend to be unaware. – Mr President, the direct cultural policy of the European Union is restricted, as the Member States have wished, to the modest funding of programmes which, nevertheless, are amongst those most often requested by the citizens. This deficiency is due, in my opinion, to fundamental causes. Firstly, the Council’s fear of denationalising these policies, which some consider as signs of national identity. The other reason is the governments’, and also the Commission’s, fear of using Community resources for subsidies which are not directed towards farmers or large public works. People avoid talking about culture or art in economic terms when, on the contrary, it should be argued that the cultural industries create employment and generate wealth for Europe. If we include the audiovisual field and cultural tourism in the culture sector, it is by far the most important sector for the European economy. I address this, without much hope that they read the Minutes, it is true, to the Finance Ministers and also our colleagues in the Committee on Budgets. As requested by Mrs Zorba, the Commission must quantify these aspects and consider them when drawing up its policies, not only the directly cultural ones but also the economic, social and territorial ones. Furthermore, Commissioner, you should demand that your colleagues take this approach to territorial policies. On the other hand, it is also becoming necessary to restrict the commercialisation of culture. You will perhaps remember that a few years ago one of the best museums in the world, the property of one of our Member States, was renting out its rooms when the museum was closed – rooms exhibiting humanity’s greatest works – for weddings and other social events. This was a depressing and alarming example. Within the European Union, the economic exploitation of cultural resources must be compatible with their historical and artistic dignity. Mr President, these aspects and many others are dealt with in this report, and I warmly congratulate its author on its timeliness and quality. . – Madam President, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport takes a positive view of the Commission’s draft directive and the sensible report by Mr Harbour, whom I congratulate. Some of the amendments contained in our opinion have been incorporated into the text, as he has said. Others, however, have not been accepted, but have been accepted for voting in plenary by Mr Medina Ortega. They are intended to improve the text from the point of view of electronic communications being considered as a general interest service. The model of society developed by the Treaties has enshrined the predominance of competition and the market, but the thing that makes us proud of Europe, the thing that makes our social model unique in the world, is the compatibility of these principles with two irrefutable values or circumstances: our high degree of social protection and the strength and breadth of our general interest services. People operating a communication network or service on the market are not dealing with any old product, but with services which have a high added value from social and cultural points of view. Their universality and ease of access to them involve principles which affect democracy and human dignity. The Committee on Culture’s amendments have several objectives: to further develop the obligation to transmit to electronic communication networks, to impose information and transparency obligations on the companies providing these services, to increase the protection of disabled people, particularly the visually and hearing impaired, as users of these communications and, finally, to separate, from a legislative point of view, infrastructures and content in the audiovisual sector. I hope that the rapporteur and his group will be generous enough to accept these amendments. – Madam President, once again you have shown yourself, through your words today and yesterday, to be worthy of your duties as a representative and as a human being, and I thank you on behalf of the Socialist Group. In fact, in an emotional tribute, we have just applauded one of the victims, José María Martín Carpena, whose life has been taken simply for having committed the crime of living and working in a peaceful and democratic country. Every, or almost every, human being feels emotional and all democrats feel indignation, but I have a special reason to feel emotional in this case. For sixteen years I had the honour of being mayor of the city to which Martín Carpena dedicated his life and of presiding over the Council in which he worked. I understand very well what a great job all councillors do. In return for modest human, political and economic compensation, they give their time generously and dedicate their lives to the public good. That is how Martín Carpena won the affection of all the people of Malaga. Madam President, as you know, and as we saw yesterday, there are groups in the Basque Country who support terrorism. Using Nazi rhetoric, they propose ethnic and political objectives for territories, which are currently Spanish and French, which surpass the Albania of the sixties. They wage their campaigns in the countries of the European Union. I would like to remind Members that a political union based on democracy and human rights would not have allowed the terrorist totalitarianism of the 20s and 30s to emerge in Europe. Therefore, when all the social and communication institutions of Europe can react with the courage of this Parliament and when the fifteen different populations have the same attitude to ETA’s attacks, terrorism will be all but finished. On behalf of the Socialist Group then, Madam President, I would like to pay the warmest of tributes to the memory of Martín Carpena and also offer my best wishes to the family and colleagues of this murdered councillor. – Madam President, the report by Mrs Gutiérrez Cortines, who is much respected and who is a colleague of mine twice over, is timely and of a high quality. She deserves the congratulations she has received and of course I would like to add my own. It is timely because its description of the university situation and its interesting proposals put an end to what has been several years of slow progress in terms of European construction in the education field, during which we have seen little more than passivity and rhetoric. On issues such as the unification of quality standards, the mutual and automatic recognition of qualifications, the convergence of degrees and programmes and the employment of graduates, the achievement of a European dimension, and the objectives set for 2010 in general, are almost as far away as they were on the day following the end of the Bologna process, more than three years ago now. The most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world is still waiting for us to be able to create a European area of higher education. Meanwhile, the universities’ response to European employment demands is inadequate and furthermore, in a context of globalisation, the European universities are still losing the battle against the American universities, both in terms of their leadership of the knowledge-based society and in terms of their external attractiveness to third-country teachers, researchers and students. The fact that the European university sector, with its fifteen million students and 600 000 teachers, is the most dynamic sector in our society, and the fact that we are adopting reports such as these, are hopeful signs which lead us to believe that, despite nationalist resistance in the Council, the autocratic attitude of some of our universities and the apathy of the Commission and Parliament in this sector, we will finally achieve the stated objective of a European area of higher education which is worthy of the name. – Mr President, I am one of those who believe that this building has made history, both in architectural terms and in the parliamentary world. For example, we have the greatest parliamentary chamber in the world at the moment, the best from a functional point of view. I know that I am not abiding by the agenda, because this is a sitting for discussing problems and I am not doing that. My opinion of this building is positive. But I have decided to take the floor because we run the risk of exaggerating the complaints, and anecdotes go down in history as if they were the opinion of the Parliament. I believe that we are talking about a piece of architecture which is difficult to understand and, on the other hand, this “culture of complaint” – which one colleague referred to – leads everybody to complain. I believe that if architecture is a conflict between form, function and space, then this has been resolved admirably. I believe that these initiatives to resolve the small problems are excellent but, in my judgement – and it is that of many of our colleagues – we should not forget that they are small problems which will be resolved and we have something for which we should congratulate the institutions, the French State, the architects and the workers. I believe it is important to highlight it. – Mr President, I would like to protest at the absurd nocturnal and almost clandestine hour allocated to a debate which should be one of the most important debates of the year. Mr President, we are dealing with a great report, which is timely and of a high quality, on which my fellow Member, Mr Bayona de Perogordo, deserves the congratulations of the Socialist Group, and I am very happy to express them. In the Andreasen report this Parliament has already defined, together with the Commission, an information strategy intended to reach all the citizens. However, despite the fact that we are in the middle of the process of creating a Constitution, opinion polls are still indicating a certain lack of interest in European construction. We could sum up the situation by saying, like Marianne Thyssen, ‘Europe has been created, now let us create the Europeans’. To this end, the information flowing from our institutions must not be neutral, we must create feelings of citizenship and of belonging to Europe in every European. We Europeans have an historic duty: we can and we must identify with each other and this must be accompanied, promoted or even provoked, if necessary, by the European institutions. In contrast with what happens in the individual countries, European construction is not the result of feelings, but of reasons. It is not driven by peoples, but by political, economic or media elites. Many things are still lacking, including a European civil society, in other words, a system of intermediary organisations, which are relatively independent from the States and from the market, which are able to gather information, to deliberate, to make decisions and to act in a joint and cross-border manner. The priority tasks for the Commission, for the European media and for opinion-formers in general – including us in this Parliament – must be empowering the European political area, the development of a European image and identity, strengthening – as the Commissioner has said – a core of common values, the debate on the future of Europe and the European approach in all types of information. In summary, the task must not be to restate the identity of Europe over and over again, but to seek, define and consolidate the bases on which the Europeans can identify with each other. Mr President, the approval of this report and the fact that Commissioner Vitorino has been charged with implementing these policies, are, in my view, significant reasons for us to be hopeful. – Madam President, together with the other MEPs who were present during the moments after our colleague fell ill, I must say in all fairness that the time that passed between the incident occurring and the arrival of the doctor would be classed as admirable for any of the world’s institutions. And when the official doctor, who came equipped with all the appropriate resuscitation equipment – and in this respect I agree with my colleague – ordered the stretcher, the stretcher arrived. I am very satisfied with the time that was taken and the action of Parliament’s medical services. –  Mr President, the procedure we are dealing with, the control of a programme throughout its execution, is normal in any Parliament. For this reason, I think that Mr Graça Moura’s report is very appropriate. I will say straight away that it deserves the approval of the Socialist Group. After the conciliation procedure, which has been mentioned previously, I expressed my annoyance with the Council given its intransigence in relation to accepting the financing we requested. This means that a programme that directly affects what we call the heart of Europe and which replaces other programmes that in the last few years have been most enthusiastically received by the most dynamic and youngest citizens of the European Union, has been allocated little more than EUR 33 million per year, an amount so small within the already modest Community budget that it disappoints those of us who see the European Union as something more than solely a vehicle for agricultural and structural spending. On this basis, we should remember two circumstances: the first is that the Culture 2000 programme exists alongside other resolutions from this Parliament which should produce guidelines for its implementation. I would cite as a particular example the Ruffolo report in which, amongst other things, the Commission is urged to set up a European observatory to monitor cultural cooperation or a three-year cultural cooperation plan. The Commission should therefore adopt a dynamic approach to Culture 2000, incorporating Parliament’s guidelines year after year. My second observation: the years remaining in this programme will coincide almost precisely with a working period, initiated at the Nice Council, which we have come to call a ‘constituent’ period. Whether there is a Constitution at the end of this or not, it is clear that the desire to increase the links between European communities and to awaken in each citizen a feeling of belonging to the Community cultural space is amongst the main objectives of the Convention. Is there a sufficient constituent basis amongst European communities? Is there any cultural identity between them? Many of us think that the constituent basis should be European culture, following Bruckmanns’s idea, that is to say, a common behaviour, a similar attitude to life, shared ideals, common artistic and cultural patrimony, and so on. Therefore, the political centre of gravity at this time should be more than just currency, more than the CFSP, even, but the linking of citizens to the Community idea and the search for and protection of a European culture. EUR 33 million is a very paltry sum to finance the only European cultural programme to be implemented during this period, but we can console ourselves, Mr President, with the thought that the conclusions of this report will contribute to the improvement of its functioning. . – Apart from Amendment No 76, which was an error, since I intended to vote in favour, the rest of my votes can be explained by means of the following fictional situation: Supposed draft environmental directive: "European Parliament and Council Directive establishing the obligation to maintain, during winter, a temperature of no less than eighteen degrees centigrade in the streets, squares and parks of the cities of Europe ". Guidelines of the Directive: a) each city shall provide the means, in terms of energy and technology, sufficient for this objective to be achieved by 2012; b) the full costs shall be passed on to the inhabitants of each city by means of electricity prices. Opinion of an MEP from the north of Europe: "This Directive would be unfair since, for example, the cost for an inhabitant of Stockholm would be two hundred times greater than the cost for an inhabitant of Naples ". Opinion of an MEP from the south of Europe: "Nevertheless, this is a question of competitivity and equality of conditions". (End of fiction). In explaining my vote, I must say that it is positive that there is a Community directive on water, but I believe that environmental dogma will not lead to the construction of Europe, but will lead to legislative caricature. We cannot give equal treatment to countries which suffer from floods and droughts, such as the Mediterranean countries, and countries with northern levels of rainfall. Furthermore, it would show a lack of solidarity to make transfers of water, between different river basins, practically impossible in the future. Once more we must remember that we are undergoing a continental project for political union. – Madam President, I agree with the fine words with which the rapporteur began his intervention and I must add that, during the conciliation procedure, I was personally a little disappointed with the Council. On the one hand, it continued to refuse to accept the term “European cultural policy” or other similar terms, even undervaluing the terms of the Treaty, and it defines “Culture 2000” simply as an instrument for cultural cooperation and no more. On the other hand, it has shown complete intransigence with regard to the funds requested by this Parliament, which were minimal anyway. Incidentally, this last point would be unfair to fourteen Members of the Council, since it was just one, the Netherlands, which was responsible for that intransigence. It has once again been demonstrated that conciliation is incompatible with the demand for unanimity in the Council. This demand makes conciliation almost impossible and even affects the dignity of the parliamentary institution. However, Madam President, these considerations must not hide the fact that the joint text which we will vote on tomorrow, and which the Socialists will vote in favour of, will put in place one of the European Union’s most important programmes. By taking action in the field of culture, we are directly contributing to the construction of a European soul, especially given the fact that the sub-programmes which make up “Culture 2000” are superb. In recent years, these have been amongst the programmes most eagerly accepted by the youngest and most dynamic citizens of the European Union. Lastly, I would like to mention the profoundly human impression I have formed of the rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura: his knowledge, his sense of balance, his intellectual qualities, make him, in my opinion, the best possible rapporteur this report could have had. Congratulations! Finally, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Reding, Vice-President Imbeni and Mr Gargani, chairman of the Committee on Culture, for the firm and intelligent position which, each within his own role, they have maintained during the entire conciliation process. –  Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists in this Parliament agrees with the report that Mr Berend has just presented and congratulates the author, both on the quality of his conclusions and on his flexibility, which ensured that the different groups were able to incorporate amendments in committee.  It must be remembered that, currently, the European Union’s overall competitiveness is, in general terms, 81% of that of the United States of America and that this figure will only improve if the figure for our competitive units, that is the regions, also improves. Furthermore, this is at a time when technological development, economic globalisation and our problems, which are enlargement and the single currency, demand that the regions, as well as businesses and individuals, make more of an effort to be competitive.  The European Commission’s sixth report presents very valuable conclusions. I shall summarise two of those highlighted by the rapporteur, one positive and one negative. The first is that important advances have been made in regional and social cohesion throughout the Union and that the Community Funds have been a major, although not decisive, factor in reducing regional inequalities. The negative conclusion is that the great effort made has been more efficient in harmonising the European regions’ GDP and productivity than in harmonising its levels of unemployment.  It is therefore necessary to link structural financing more closely to job creation. This, Commissioner, is the first commandment for the coming period.  Thus, Mr President, I ask my fellow Members to approve this report and I ask the Commission, as other speakers have done, to take good note of the conclusions of their sixth periodic report when they address the programming for the period 2000-2006. Mr President, we agree that revision of the Television without frontiers directive is urgently needed. Firstly, it is needed because the context in which the televisual market operates, as it has been described, is so different from what it was when the directive was last revised that it does not seem feasible to retain the latter for a further two or three years. As an estimate, we could say that at most, the directive only covers some 50% of the problems currently experienced in the sector. Secondly, revision is required because we need to come up with solutions which were not provided at the time. Television remains the main source of information and entertainment for most Europeans. In my view, apart from the issue of the low quality of content, it is beset by three main problems. Too much advertising is broadcast, with no thought for its suitability or the ages and timings involved. Only rarely are European films broadcast, which is an affront to European culture. The business of digitalising programmes so they can be shown on subscription channels has taken off. Doubtless these problems already existed in 1996, but the situation is now critical. This suggests that although the directive has been successful as far as the free circulation of television services within the Community is concerned, it has failed in other important areas. The Commission’s communication does not allow us to assess the efforts Member States made to redress the situation in the three years under scrutiny. Suffice it to say that three Member States did not even transpose the directive into their legislation. Most probably, the results for the remaining Member States were not identical, but the Commission has not made such a comparative study available. There is little detail on the situation in the candidate countries. This should feature prominently in the new directive. For all these reasons, Mrs Hieronymi has refrained from launching an in-depth debate in her report. I believe she was wise to do so. This debate should take place when the directive is revised, and she has requested such a revision. A number of guidelines to inform the process have been laid down. I should like to refer to just a few of these, namely the urgent need to introduce new services based on new technologies, the need to stimulate and accelerate the transition to digital technology and the coordination of the new directive with the revision of the directive on electronic commerce. The Socialist Group will therefore vote in favour of the report and endorse two amendments tabled by Mrs Junker. Regarding these amendments, I would like to highlight the need for Community legislation to ensure that events or shows of great interest to the citizens should be protected from digitalisation so that they can be made available to all social classes free of charge. – Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your reply to the question of my colleague, Mr Fruteau, who has asked me to convey his apologies, since he is unable to get to Strasbourg until tonight as a result of . I am also very grateful for your reply myself. I note that we share the Commission’s concern about the fact that an agreement between the ACP countries and the European Union, which is so positive for other reasons, nevertheless has an impact in those outermost regions which have similar production and are geographically close to the ACP countries. Having seen that the Commission is concerned about this and having received a very satisfactory response, does the Commission nevertheless intend to implement any measure to lessen the impact of this presumably negative effect before the final date indicated? Does it intend to implement any urgent measure? – Mr President, I am only going to comment on and explain the majority position of the Socialist Group on one of the proposals, the one that modifies the directive regulating inspection organisations. The guarantees of the seaworthiness of vessels required that considerable measures be adopted on the societies responsible and on inspections, as has already been said. The current situation is simply unacceptable. In this sense, the text proposed contains some new elements that are interesting and positive but which, in our opinion, are not sufficient. Public opinion is demanding that we act swiftly in this situation, as the President-in-Office of the Council has said, but that speed needs to be compatible with an acceptable minimum text. No one in the Council of which you are the Chairman should be tempted to accuse of us of moving too slowly; we demand some minimums and everyone will understand that. Our fundamental discrepancies are to do with two areas: on the one hand, the issue of responsibility and compensation, for which the amounts and the minimums should be adequate and equal across the whole of the European Union – we do not think that subsidiarity is acceptable. On the other hand, there is the independence of classification societies. That independence should be very clear at this time when many shipowners and proprietors are forming their own societies that are authorising boats. This is unacceptable. Therefore, in general, we are not happy with the compromise text. As we understand that it is the minimum text that the Council will accept, we are not going to contribute to its adoption in the hope that it will be improved at second reading, but we will not vote against it because we recognise the excellent work done by the rapporteur, Mr Ortuondo, which resulted in some agreed amendments which show us the path to take for the next reading. So, there are some interesting new elements, but they are not enough. – Thank you, Commissioner, for your reply which contains new and very important information for us. The situation we are talking about is extremely serious. A nuclear vessel, suffering a fault classified as serious, is going to be repaired in a small port which is not equipped for the purpose, when more than 300 thousand people live in the vicinity. And the decisions on repairs and safety are to be taken by a government which is foreign to those inhabitants. There is no way that this situation can be treated as a bilateral affair between two Member States which belong to a political union. The Commission, in its clear response two months ago and in its reply today, has been responsible enough to recognise this, although it has not been recognised in the Group of the European People’s Party’s motion for a resolution, a fact which, together with other trivialisations of the affair, has prevented us from supporting it. Commissioner, with this same sense of responsibility, the Commission must exercise its powers and not hide them behind an approach of diplomatic prudence and submissiveness towards the Council. I am not being alarmist, I am not against nuclear energy, I would never defend, as I believe nobody in Spain would, the idea of a submarine being moved at any cost if that meant an increased risk, but it is not in the spirit of European democracies, nor of the European Union Treaty, for decisions to be taken which jeopardise human safety and cause a population to be put at risk for the sake of greater technical, budgetary and diplomatic comfort. Until now, despite the information provided by Mr Patten, the citizens have not been aware of the risks in scientific terms, the date of repair or what the repairs are going to consist of. They are not aware of any plans in the case of a radiological emergency and they do not know whether moving the submarine presents more risks than repairing it there. Can the Commission allow a situation such as this? I am not turning this into a matter of national honour, nor is this the moment to condemn the territorial anachronism represented by Gibraltar. This specific issue is more serious than all that, since it affects hundreds of thousands of human beings on Community territory, not only Spaniards, but people of all nationalities and British people in particular. We believe that these citizens have found the protection which is their right in their most modest territorial representation, that is to say, their local authorities. In fact, the municipal and social representatives of those citizens are with us today. Whether or not they have found that protection in their national government is a matter for the Spanish Parliament. A debate is taking place there, but the citizens, on the basis of their knowledge or intuition, are turning their attention to the European institutions. It is the responsibility of those institutions that the citizens, in relation to the European Union, should stop thinking simply in terms of when their agricultural subsidies will arrive or when their Community funding will arrive and start thinking about what degree of safety the Community institutions can offer them. I therefore ask you to adopt the proposals contained in the joint motion for a resolution which will be voted on first, or at least those proposed by the Socialist Group. In any event, I trust that the Commission will not only fulfil its obligations but that it will persuade the two Member States involved to fulfil theirs. . – Mr President, we are dealing with one of the few, but nevertheless serious, problems resulting from the removal of our internal borders. From the very beginnings of the single market, it was established that the free movement of goods had to be compatible with the protection of the artistic and cultural heritage of each of the Member States. It was, and continues to be, within the competence of each State to define its national heritage and its protection. Since 1 January 1993, however, measures became necessary, such as the harmonisation of requirements for sales and the uniformity of the control procedure for extra-community exportation. To this end, in 1992 and 1993, the Regulation and the directive which we are discussing today were adopted. The philosophy of the Regulation can be summed up as follows: each Member State is obliged to control the exportation not only of its own heritage, but also of any heritage which is located within its territory, but which originates in one of the other fourteen Member States. Nine years later, except for a few minor amendments, the text and the approach of 1992 are still in force. It must also be pointed out that the problem of the illegal trafficking in cultural goods and its impunity are more serious than ever. The forecasts are even more pessimistic if we bear in mind that, when the rich heritage of the candidate countries is incorporated into the single market, the current legislation may still be in force despite being shown to be insufficient. In 1993, the Commission committed itself to monitoring the progress and the degree of effectiveness of the two regulations in force every three years, as well as proposing corrections where necessary. It tried to do so in 1996, but, when it requested information from the Member States, it received no response from the majority of them. In some cases, the delays in incorporating the Regulation into the legislation of each Member State were scandalous; in four cases the Regulation did not enter into force until 1998. Finally, in 1998 the Commission obtained certain data, opinions and experiences and, on that basis, has produced the report which we are discussing today. It is a purely informative communication, that is, it does not contain any proposals for new measures or amendments of the current ones. It is a voluntary report, which lacks sufficient data to make objective measurements and also, in my opinion, lacks the criteria necessary to propose any improvement to the current procedure. We can, however, draw certain conclusions. Some of these conclusions, though fewer in number, are positive, such as the fact that the very existence of the two regulations has been sufficient to increase the awareness of administrations and public opinion and to bring about extrajudicial solutions. There are, however, a larger number of negative conclusions which can be summed up in one: the general practice is still that a Member State authorising the export of a cultural item does not check with its State of origin whether the item’s provenance is legal or illegal. In the majority of cases, the administrations of the Member States have not properly cooperated with each other, in particular the police and customs departments, that is to say, the units that are part of the Interior Ministries. It is here that I would like to point out one of the cruxes of the problem; on the one hand, these units of the administration have other border priorities relating to organised crime. On the other hand, this cooperation falls under the third pillar, which is so difficult to achieve, as you well know. Therefore, the situation is serious in two respects; the increase in the intra-community clandestine trade in historical and cultural goods, and also the increase in their exportation beyond our external borders. The explosion in the activities of organised networks, the unrestricted proliferation of antique dealers without sufficient professional standing or control and the practically universal impunity of the people responsible, either because the crime has been only recently defined, just a year ago, or because the mere allegation that a buyer has acted in good faith is sufficient cause for a case not to continue,are some of the reasons for this serious situation. For all these reasons, our report expresses the view that it is crucial that legislation is improved and that a qualitative change is made to the Community’s approach. We believe that this is a cultural issue, which the Council must deal with through the bodies responsible for culture in each Member State. These are crimes or failings which must be detected by Community operational units specialised in artistic and historical heritage; the Commissioner for Culture, rather than any of her colleagues, must make a diagnosis and propose a way of dealing with the situation. All of this should go hand in hand with the integration of the various teams of the departments responsible for trade, the police and customs, but, I repeat, this must be done from a predominantly cultural point of view. Our report also identifies certain difficulties, such as the existence of an unknown heritage in the possession of institutions such as the church. We propose certain specific measures considered to be very urgent – such as the use of the Internet to publish pictures and details of stolen objects – and we request that the Commission, under the direction of the Commissioner for Culture, produce a Green Paper describing the current situation, assess the effects of the Regulation and the directive, carry out a comparative study of the definition of heritage in each Member State and, above all, propose specific measures to improve the situation. The Commissioner for Culture, whom I have admired for years, has for some time adopted a lively and decisive approach to future tasks while remaining cautious and indecisive about the present ones. She has sufficient capacity and resources for this not to be the case. Through this report, Parliament seeks to express its anguish and alarm about the current situation which, despite being the result of the removal of internal borders, which is so beneficial in all other respects, is not being sufficiently addressed by the Community authorities. . –  Mr President, two years after the negative result of the referendum in Switzerland on its integration into the European Economic Area, the Council authorised the Commission to negotiate bilateral agreements with that country in the necessary fields. The draft regulation which has now been submitted for Parliament’s approval complements one of the agreements that has been reached, specifically the one on the transport of goods and passengers by rail and road. In accordance with this agreement, a maximum number of lorries from the Community weighing over 28 tonnes will be authorised to transit Switzerland until 2005, when this country, in aligning itself with Community law, will not require permits for lorries of up to 40 tonnes.  Thus, as soon as this regulation comes into force, the current situation, which does not allow lorries of more than 28 tonnes to travel through Swiss territory, will end. In 2000, 250 000 permits have been allowed for lorries weighing over 28 tonnes with a full load registered in the European Union. From 2001, permits will be granted for lorries weighing more than 34 tonnes, with free transit for those weighing between 28 and 34 tonnes. This number will rise to 300 000 per year in 2001 and 2002 and to 400 000 per year in 2003 and 2004. On the other hand, lorries allowed to transit empty has been fixed at 220 000 per year.  The current regulation – which I think is totally correct – proposes a system for the allocation of these permits between the Fifteen Member States. Each one will receive 1500 per year and the rest will be allocated according to current, real or theoretical figures for bilateral traffic and transit traffic.  I must express my reservations about two negative circumstances. Firstly, the present proposal is being debated and voted on in this House before we know the overall Agreement with Switzerland so we are being asked to approve one part without knowing the whole thing. Secondly, we lack reliable and up-to-date statistics on current flows of goods transport between Switzerland and the European Union even though this study is about to be completed and the same regulation lays down that in 2000, the current allocation figures could be modified if the true figures differ significantly from those that are currently envisaged.  With regard to both of these factors, I think that the desire that this regulation which must be adopted by the codecision procedure should come into force on the same day as the Agreement, is a sufficient argument to explain the need for haste.  I declare my complete agreement with the basic issue, that is, with the proposed method of calculation for allocating the number of permits to the different Member States and that, given the circumstances, it is the most objective, rigorous and fair method possible. Furthermore, the regulation lays down, as I said, a system for the annual allocation of any permits that have not been allocated. It is to be hoped that in turn, each Member State will allocate the permits that it has been allocated with equally objective criteria to its hauliers.  By way of a summary, I shall give you some figures. If we apply the proposed system, the distribution of the 1,650 000 permits allowing the circulation of heavy goods vehicles over the five years gives a result of 36% to Germany, 20.5% to Italy, 15.5% to France, 7.8% to the Netherlands, 6.6% to Belgium, 3.8% to Austria with the remaining 10% to be distributed amongst the remaining Member States.  Mr President, a few amendments put forward by the two Parliamentary Committees that have been debating the draft improve on some details and contribute to the overall fairness of the regulation and to the ease of managing it. I think that it is very important that, as the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has decided by means of a vote, we maintain the Commission’s proposed minimum allocation of 1500 permits for each Member State. I must point out that this number is very low, equivalent to two trips per day for each country, and that the total of all these permits to be allocated automatically over five years does not even represent 7% of the total.  I shall thus end by highlighting once again the overall quality of the draft project. I congratulate the Commission on it and ask the honourable Members to approve this draft regulation. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you know what my group thinks because you were kind enough to invite all the chairmen to Copenhagen and I believe you raised the issue at the end of your speech in the correct way, providing a historical view of the challenge we have before us. In this respect, I must say that I believe this is a good political approach. I hope that the Danish Presidency will act with neutrality, as was the case last time Denmark held the Presidency. We must not lose hope that, respecting the decisions of the Danish people, you will also be fully committed to European integration. That would be good for everybody. With regard to the challenges we have before us, the essential challenge is enlargement. I would repeat that we should approach it as the historic challenge for Europeans to achieve one Europe. Parliament is doing everything it can to ensure enlargement takes place within the agreed timescales. I was surprised by the statements by your Foreign Minister threatening to take a stick to the candidate countries if they do not behave properly. I do not know whether the transcription in the press is correct. But in any event, I would accept that you have a Herculean task, because – Parliament has said this about previous enlargements – we cannot make a leap of this type without reconsidering things. We cannot go from fifteen countries to twenty-five by negotiating for a fortnight and without dealing with budgetary issues at all. That is why you are having problems with the Council. You are also going to need a stick to impose order within the Council. I must say, since Mr Poettering is so determined to systematically bring the German election campaign into our debates, that we can argue about agriculture, but please tell Mr Stoiber not to bring up the Beneš Decrees all the time, since these bombshells are much more dangerous in Europe.  Therefore, Prime Minister, since the tales of your fellow countryman Andersen are so beautiful, do not let this tale end in a nightmare. I wish you lots of luck, but you have a very difficult job. And this relates to food safety, because what we have now is a hyper-capitalist agricultural policy that is constantly seeking to achieve higher productivity. We have had the political courage to debate it. We want an agricultural policy which is aimed at sustainable development, but we cannot say that that will be discussed later and we are going to wait four years. That is the challenge facing you. With regard to fisheries, we also have to create a sustainable development policy, but applying human principles and respecting the social fabric and cohesion, which I am sure we all agree on. I must point out that you are a fishing power, since you fish more than anyone else in the Community. With regard to security, justice and freedom, all I will say is that we support the fight against terrorism and organised crime. We are very concerned because your government is pursuing a policy on asylum which has been criticised by the United Nations High Commission for Refugees. Furthermore, you have not included Tampere in your programme; you only refer to Seville. In the work implementing Tampere we have five outstanding directives on the table…  …and in Seville you have had to give the Interior Ministers homework with deadlines. Mr President, a brief reference to global responsibility. You are right to raise global security. It concerns me very much as well and I would like you to disown the statements of your Foreign Minister in which he states that the approach of the Quartet and the International Conference on the Middle East makes no sense. This has been approved by Parliament, it is a European Union position and it appears in the Seville conclusions. We believe that unilateral action by the United States is not the way to resolve this conflict. Finally – and I will end here, Mr President – aware that the Convention we are preparing is a challenge for next year, I would like to know what you think: are you in favour of the Community method or the cabinet-based method? Thank you very much and good luck. – Mr President, the postponement of the debate is proposed specifically in relation to the Morgan report referring to the other institutions. But of course the discharge is a joint vote. And the reason is that the Council has to take a step forward in relation to Parliament on the specific issue of the implementation of the foreign and security policy and its monitoring. The Council has a positive attitude and it has to respond to the Commission tomorrow. We believe that it is important to take this step and that to postpone the debate until Wednesday would help us to assess this positive attitude on the part of the Council. We have therefore requested this postponement which, furthermore, will help to make tomorrow’s voting time shorter. – I would like to thank Mr Galeote for his desire for information. Council elections in a country are one thing; financial irregularities affecting the Community budget, which have given rise to reports in this House and related legal actions, are quite another, Mr Galeote. I believe that this does indeed fall within the competence of the European Parliament and that you, who are as concerned as I am for there to be no financial irregularities affecting the Community budget, will also support this proposal. Furthermore, you will support the involvement of the Committee on Budgetary Control and of Parliament in this matter. – Mr President, this disaster, without going into the issue in depth and in view of the information becoming available to us, currently involves at least four Community countries: Spain, France, Portugal and Denmark. It does not just involve maritime safety, but it is a transversal issue which involves at least four committees (Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, Fisheries, Development and Cooperation and Legal Affairs and the Internal Market). Therefore, not just in view of the dramatic situation in Galicia, but also thinking of the whole of the European Union, we must provide a response and also consider something which is important and which I hope has the agreement of the Group of the European Peoples’ Party, at least it did last week: the creation of a committee of enquiry. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office of the Council began by talking about Italy’s historic role in European construction. I am going to speak to him frankly on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists: we want Italy and its Presidency to present a , which succeeds, rather than a , which fails. What worries us is that, when we hear President Ciampi talk about Europe, we feel more reassured, but when we hear President Berlusconi talk about Europe we feel more concerned. Today you have taken the Ciampi line. The problem is when you tell us that the Commission must be abolished and that Russia and Israel must join the European Union tomorrow morning. We agree that the Convention has produced a historic result. If you will allow me, Mr President, I will remind you of the first sentence of the preamble of the Constitution produced by the Convention, which was written 2 500 years ago and is still relevant – it is our fundamental creed – and it is a quotation from Thucydides: ‘Our Constitution ... is called a democracy because power is in the hands not of a minority but of the greatest number’.  This means that we are obliged to make laws for the general interest and not to resolve specific cases involving a minority. That is the cornerstone of European construction.  With regard to the Convention and the Constitution, I have taken good note of the fact that you have expressed a will to negotiate. I would like to say that we, who would improve the text of the Convention, believe that there must only be formulations of a technical nature, in other words, negotiation over outstanding problems, and that the Constitution must not be rewritten and, in particular, not be moved backwards. You have made a proposal on the participation of Parliament. I am grateful for this, but I would like to say one thing to you: this is what we have had since the Treaty of Amsterdam, and even since the Treaty of Maastricht, that the President can attend European Councils and the conclaves, that we have representatives in the Intergovernmental Conference – we call them observers, but we want representatives. Now there is something else, however. The Convention has taken place. The doors cannot be closed. What we are also asking – and I hope that Parliament will approve this in its resolution – is that the Presidency should be obliged to provide information regularly, here and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, chaired by Giorgio Napolitano, and that we should be able to invite, as we do, representatives from national parliaments. Yesterday we spoke about this with President Casini and we agree, because what we cannot do is return to diplomacy behind closed doors. You have also talked about the European economy. I was surprised that you did not refer to the Lisbon strategy, because what you have talked about is largely the implementation of the Lisbon strategy. But in relation to the so-called ‘Tremonti’ proposal, which is a resurrection of the Delors plan and the van Miert proposal, it is good to hear from conservative politicians and conservative governments that a degree of Keynesianism is acceptable, because we have been asking for this plan for ten years. Well, let us see how we can do so, how you will apply the ‘golden rule’…  …how guarantees will be established ... even you, who are a successful businessman, could begin by making a first subscription to the bridge of Messina which would overcome the division between Scylla and Charybdis, which has been fundamental to European history over the last 3 000 years. With regard to the issue of intergenerational solidarity and the future of the welfare state, it is true that we must talk about pensions. I do not believe that you are proposing that Social Security and pensions should become a European competence – that would go further than what we are saying – but it is important that it be linked to our demographic situation and our future, above all in relation to immigration. There was recently a debate on this issue in your government, moreover, between hardliners and advocates of a more intelligent, human policy. We believe that Thessaloniki has been a very important step. With regard to another constitutional issue, which concerns us because it was a resolution approved by the whole of this House, including the votes from the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: at the end of last year we expressed the need to implement the Charter of Fundamental Rights in relation to freedom of expression and, specifically, in relation to the media at European level, in order to counteract the growing disparity between the national anti-concentration rules and in order to guarantee the rights of the citizens. This is a Green Paper which was produced by the Commission ten years ago and has yet to bear fruit. We believe it is important – given the prospect of an enlarged Europe and in the interests of guaranteeing these fundamental rights – that we work on this. I would also point out, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that this does not bear any relation to an issue we faced when you were a Member of Parliament: the issue of the waiving of immunity in relation to a case in my country. What we are proposing is the development of a constitutional right for all Europeans. Finally, Mr President, I will refer to foreign policy. If you continue the work of the Greek Presidency with regard to transatlantic relations, we would consider that to be positive and we also believe that an important role can be played through the Quartet in the Middle East. I would ask you to act like Mrs Rice, that is, when you go to the Middle East, not to talk only to the Israelis. She has had no problem talking to everybody. Why should an important European have such a problem? I very much appreciate what you have said in relation to Latin America, which is also a transatlantic issue, and above all in relation to Mercosur. I will end by thanking you for your generosity and by talking about Italians: when the Treaty of Rome ‘II’ is signed at the Campidoglio, I am sure that my group colleague and Mayor of Rome, Mr Veltroni, will be very happy to receive the Italian President-in-Office of the Council.  I can assure you, Mr Berlusconi, that we will not be partisan and we will judge your Presidency on the facts, on what you can do, and not just on promises. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, aware that the Irish Presidency is very sensitive to poetry, allow me to begin by expressing in positive terms what Commissioner Barnier has said in a negative way. The universal Spanish poet, Antonio Machado, said in a very famous poem:  and you have begun to walk, prudently but firmly, and I believe that Parliament should appreciate this. You are opening up the path and overcoming a very dramatic situation of deadlock, of stagnation, in Europe. We have heard the report from our representatives in the IGC, Mr Hänsch and Mr Brok, and what both of them tell us is that it appears the atmosphere has changed. I believe that Irish hospitality is playing a positive role in this and it is very significant that the atmosphere has changed for the better; and I even welcome the very positive words of Mr Poettering, who I am sure has spoken on behalf of at least three-quarters of his group. I imagine that the British Conservatives will not be happy, but I believe that there is clear convergence between us ... Well, on behalf of 80%, I admit. There is a first important question which has not yet been resolved – and I believe that the Italian Presidency has not communicated a single document in this respect – which is the status of the modifications to the text of the Convention at the Brussels Council. Having heard the Irish Presidency and having studied these modifications in Parliament, I believe that further work has been done on the text of the Convention, that is to say, there has been no consolidation of these texts, and that is important in terms of assessing the backward movements which have taken place. We must, moreover, begin working in this regard. I also believe we must stress that a number of countries that were very critical at the Brussels Summit – and I include my own, Spain, together with Poland, Germany and France, amongst others – have publicly expressed by means of their ministers their will to reach an agreement. With regard to the two-speed Europe, I am going to say something very fundamental: the problem is not so much that there are two speeds, but rather how to persuade those who are applying the brakes every day to stop doing so. I believe that that is the crux of the issue at the moment, that is to say, we cannot make progress if there are a number of countries which are applying the brakes entirely. I believe that would be a good start. It is absolutely clear that we must try to prevent a second failure in the Intergovernmental Conference, but also, looking at it positively, it is very important that we are able to face our responsibilities. Why? Because the Convention, with the participation of the new Member States and with the participation of some countries still in negotiations, produced a text, and we must offer the electorate – whom we are going to consult very shortly – a result of our work which allows the Union to work and operate more democratically and more efficiently. That is the responsibility which we share and, therefore, with a view to the elections, we must be able to take that position. I would, however, add further elements to this year’s timetable. Firstly, there will be a new Parliament and new Commission, and we cannot now deny them the right to propose the modifications they consider appropriate as well. The issue is not whether the next Presidency does it better, but that we may find ourselves in the situation of having to start from the beginning again, with the new Parliament and the new Commission. That is an important point. We are also dealing with important international decisions which will affect the European Union over the coming months: the reform of the United Nations, to which we Europeans are directly committed – tomorrow we will receive its Secretary-General – the situation in Iraq, the situation in the Middle East, and the European Union's international policy and responsibilities. Furthermore, while not making any threats or accusations, it is clear that we must tackle and debate, jointly and immediately, because they are in the timetable, the updating of the Lisbon strategy and of the financial perspectives, in other words, the economic dimension and solidarity within our Union, and we must try to do so constructively. It is unthinkable that we should make progress on the economic dimension and not do so on the political dimension. It is therefore extremely urgent – and I welcome the Irish Presidency’s will – that we act in a positive and proactive manner. – Mr President, the issue raised by Mr Cohn-Bendit is an important issue which the European Parliament has worked on not only during this legislature but also during the last one. The Council, under the Swedish Presidency, even addressed its concerns to Korea. We agree with the idea of dealing with this issue by means of a Commission statement and another by the Council in November. Not on Thursday afternoon of this week, without the participation of either the Council or the Commission. –Mr President, I understand that the Group of the Party of European Socialists’ proposal has been accepted, which is to say that the Commission will participate in both debates, on the Middle East as well as on the illegal small arms trade. Is now the moment to talk about the point Mr Poettering has raised, or will he submit it later? – Mr President, Mr President—in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, to congratulate the Group of the European People’s Party on their fiftieth anniversary. It is an important date for the PPE-DE and also for democracy in Europe. Mr President, I have a problem. It is difficult for me at this point to say anything more positive about the Greek Presidency than Mr Poettering and the  because my family ties and solidarity with the Greek Prime Minister are well known. I just want to say one thing, your Presidency has not been a cruise around the Aegean Sea, but rather an ‘Odyssey’. I believe it is fair to say, moreover, that you have captained the European ship with leadership and decisiveness, and I believe this should be stressed at this point. In line with the thinking of the Presidency, firstly, with regard to enlargement, the ceremony of 16 April in the , in the Market Square next to the Acropolis, was an important event. I would like to thank you for the way you treated the representatives of the European Parliament, headed by our President, but above all I would like to thank you for the historic opportunity which took place in what was the cradle of democracy and also, in relation to an issue which is very close to the hearts of all Europeans and very dramatic for Greece – the case of Cyprus and relations with Turkey – the intelligence and flexibility being shown by the current Greek Government in establishing and developing relations with such an important ally. Secondly, with regard to the Lisbon strategy, I believe we must stress the implementation of the employment guidelines, particularly with regard to gender equality – and in this regard I would like to welcome the work being done by Commissioner Diamantopoulou. In the current situation we are largely concerned by the deadlock affecting the directive on temporary workers, as well as the fact that the Broad Economic Policy Guidelines are not responding to reality: they are more of an intellectual exercise than a political one, and they do not in fact respond to our need to make our European economy more dynamic and defend our common currency. I believe we should also stress, as the President has done, the progress that has been made on maritime safety, particularly in view of Greece’s role as the main European power. Furthermore, with regard to an aspect which is important to our economic future; the reform of the common agricultural policy (CAP), I believe we should also welcome the fact that we have achieved a reform which puts us in a very significant position in terms of the future, particularly for European agriculture and also for the negotiations in the World Trade Organisation (WTO). With regard to the future of Europe, the fact that the Convention has concluded its work during the six-month period is an important step, producing a text which does not contain options, which does not contain red cards, and which, as the President has said, and I take good note of this, only needs to be subjected to technical modifications. Of course, we would have liked a constitution with more qualified majority voting in social areas, on taxation, on foreign and security policy and with a better interinstitutional balance. The best is the enemy of the good, however. We believe that the important thing now is to consolidate what has been achieved and not to move backwards. In this regard we are also concerned about the participation of Parliament. We believe that the President must be represented at the highest level, that we must have representatives in the Intergovernmental Conference and, furthermore, now that the future of Europe has been debated for the first time in public, in our Parliament as well, in plenary and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this House must be the public forum which the Presidency is obliged to report to. I believe that this also corresponds to the times we are living in. I would like to add one further point on the Statute for Political Parties. All the parties and parliamentary groups have worked together to achieve a statute for the parties. Now, however, we are in the dramatic situation of having a statute for parties but no statute for Members of Parliament. This is like having rules for an army but not having rights for soldiers. I would genuinely like, therefore, to draw the attention of the Council Presidency to the fact that it makes no sense to block such an important step, which is of constitutional value to Europe. Finally, a comment on external relations. You have faced a dramatic crisis which tested the reciprocal loyalty laid down in the Treaties between European allies. You acted firmly with regard to transatlantic relations; you maintained European representation in a dignified manner at the summit with a very important ally with which we can have relations without agreeing on everything. I believe, therefore, that the Greek Presidency deserves our recognition and our applause. Mr President, I have just heard the sad news of the murder of Mr Jose Antonio Bernal Gomez, Press Attaché at the Spanish Embassy in Baghdad. I trust you will convey the deepest condolences of the House to the Government of Spain. On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would also like to express our condemnation of the Haifa attack. This attack took place at a particularly sensitive time for Israel, coming as it did on the eve of Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement. We express our condolences to all those Israeli and Palestinian families suffering as a result of this escalation of violence. This has come about despite the resumption of dialogue on 30 April, which represented a glimmer of hope and a window of opportunity. We endorse the content of the Menendez del Valle report. It is worth highlighting that, although there are differences of opinion and divisions amongst us Europeans on a number of matters, the Middle East is one issue on which we are broadly in agreement. This consensus between all the Member States of the European Union dates back to the 1980 Venice Declaration. The broad support for these proposals in the House is also worth noting. Further to the statements made by Mr Solana and Commissioner Monti, I believe there is also clear agreement that we must maintain our political, diplomatic and economic effort. Mr President, the issue is not whether the Road Map is valid or not. The issue is that we must go down the road to peace, however difficult and dangerous it proves. After all, the Road Map is simply a way or a means of achieving peace. In this connection, we believe we should make it clear to our Israeli friends that terrorism has to be dealt with within the framework of international law. The attack on Syria in the wake of the terrorist incident is unacceptable under international law. It violates the territorial integrity of a third country and contributes to a dangerous escalation of tension in a part of the world that could most certainly do without it. I also believe we should make it clear to the Israeli Government and to Mr Sharon that the solution to the conflict does not lie in implementing the law of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. It does not lie either in calls for the murder or removal of the elected representative of the Palestinian people. I recently attended the celebrations at Tel Aviv University in honour of Shimon Peres’s eightieth birthday. Bearing in mind statements made by Mr Peres, statements by other prominent Israeli leaders and statements by Mr Arafat and by the Palestinian Authority, it appears a number of concessions have been made. I refer firstly to the recognition of the right of the State of Israel to exist. This is recognition granted not only by us but also by the Palestinian Authority. Secondly, it has been recognised that peace can only be achieved through negotiation. Thirdly, it has been recognised that negotiations must be based on the 1967 borders. All this is to the credit of the Palestinian Authority. Mr Abu Abas represents this approach. He addressed the House when Mrs Fontaine was President, and was one of the negotiators of the Oslo Agreements. I would like to add also that the Palestinian National Authority could become a role model in democracy for the whole of the Arab world. I have in mind the activities it is currently engaged in and indeed the possibility of fresh elections, if the latter are permitted. In short, a hard intransigent approach leads to strengthening fanatic, anti-democratic and aggressive attitudes. I shall now turn to the matter of the building of the security fence. Mr Poettering spoke eloquently on the basis of his personal experience. I should point out too that from the Great Wall of China to the Berlin Wall, all such walls have proved utterly useless. We should appeal to the good sense of the Jewish people. They owe their very survival to the absence of walls. We must appeal to them to come to their senses and stop building a fence that does not even respect the 1967 borders. This fence will also make it impossible to achieve what we in the European Union have succeeded in doing, namely establishing a network of inter-connected interests. Links of this kind are just what the Middle East needs. They would result in fewer arms, greater opportunities for cooperation and economic development and greater opportunities for coming closer together. Finally, I would like to support the action taken by Mr Solana and also by our Representative in the Middle East. I believe the Quartet must continue its work. The possibility of establishing an international mandate involving the deployment of an international force on the ground should be considered too. This would be a peace-keeping buffer force supporting the efforts to be made by both parties. In conclusion, Mr President, the Road Map cannot be allowed to fail. Fanaticism, terrorism and intransigence cannot be allowed to ride roughshod over common sense and a just and dignified peace. I wish you well, gentlemen. You can count on our support. – Mr President, the reason for this request is not a political reason, to do with any one group. The President, as Mr Poettering well knows, since he was with me in the seminar that he invited us to, insists that we should hold comprehensible debates. Well, if we are going to hold a debate on the Union’s budget, the obvious thing is also to debate the broad guidelines for economic policy. That is the only reason. There is nothing else behind this proposal. I hope Mr Poettering does not have a cold, since he is well wrapped up at the moment. I hope he is feeling alright. –  Mr President, I would like to tell Parliament that this morning the Prince of Asturias Foundation awarded the prestigious Concord Prize jointly to Daniel Barenboim and Edward Saïd. I believe this is an appropriate encore to the concert we enjoyed on Monday.  *** –  Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the other parliamentary groups for supporting our initiative of 8 August for an oral question, following a trip to Latin America to see the effects of the crisis and ascertain the expectations of the Latin-American countries with regard to the European Union. Secondly, I would like to welcome the compromise resolution in which the European Parliament will show – as I hope it will tomorrow – its unanimous support for a clearly determined direction established by the Commission and the Council. The question we are asking has three parts. The first is that, from the very positive experiences of the association treaties with Mexico and the treaty we have just signed with Chile, we believe that we need to speed up negotiations – Commissioner Patten was in Rio de Janeiro in July with Commissioner Lamy – for three basic reasons. First, because we need to consolidate the political and economic integration of Mercosur. Secondly, because this is an instrument for stability – we hope it will be – to give investors confidence, to be a factor in economic growth and also to help consolidate democracy in these countries. Thirdly, last but not least, because we are the main investor and the main commercial partner in this area, ahead of the United States. And it is appropriate that we should talk about commerce, the economy and subjects such as the International Criminal Court, the WTO, Kyoto, etc., in order to consolidate these alliances. The second aspect is that we can make progress on some of the proposals of a transitional nature we are currently putting forward, taking account of the need for aid in order to overcome the crisis – in particular, I am thinking of certain agri-fisheries aspects which can subsequently be consolidated. The third aspect is that we are facing a significant problem with regard to the representation of the European Union in international bodies, which, I admit, is difficult to solve. We need to address this in the Convention and consolidate our positions, but you will acknowledge that in the case of the Commission’s mission to Rio de Janeiro, Commissioner Patten was not in the same situation as Commissioner Lamy. Commissioner Lamy has commercial power, as he showed in our negotiations in the WTO. In the case of the International Monetary Fund, we found that, although we jointly have 30% of the vote, due to special rules for negotiating, the United States, with 17%, carries more weight than we do. We must find a solution to this which allows us, within the scope of Article 99 of the Treaties, to be represented as a whole and thus carry enough weight to reflect our responsibilities and size. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to begin by joining in the deserved tributes to Jean Monnet and Altiero Spinelli, two visionaries, two anti-fascists and two courageous people. I would also like to point out that Jean Monnet very often quoted the Swiss philosopher Amiel, saying the following: ‘Each man’s experience starts again from the beginning. Only institutions grow wiser: they accumulate collective experience; and, owing to this experience and this wisdom, men subject to the same rules will not see their own nature changing, but their behaviour gradually transformed’. And that is what we are doing here, in Parliament, and what we also want to do with the European Constitution. My esteemed friend, Mr Méndez de Vigo, told us that he carried the ‘Spinelli Treaty’ in his briefcase when he was working in the Convention. I can tell him that, when we were preparing the Maastricht Treaty, I had the opportunity to speak with Paco Ordóñez, who was Spanish Foreign Affairs Minister, and he told me that he carried the ‘Spinelli Treaty’ in his briefcase and I carried it as well, and I would recommend to Minister Roche that he carries the ‘Spinelli Treaty’ in his briefcase when he has to find some imaginative solution. I would also like to add that much is said about solidarity, about the step-by-step policy and so on, but we must remember one thing, and that is that the declaration of 9 May 1950 begins by talking about peace – as our friend John Hume has done today. Peace was the issue, not just creating a common market for steel and coal. Having said this, Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to express our complete support for the declaration of the European Parliament’s Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Constitution. I believe that this is the time to support this declaration in circumstances such as that mentioned by the minister. I would reiterate our support for the draft Constitution, in the form it left the Convention. We are aware that there are certain specific points to deal with, not with regard to values – we are very happy with this democratic and secular Europe for everybody – but we do believe there are certain issues still to be dealt with. One of them – and I say this coming from the country which, with an entirely mistaken vision, under the previous government, blocked the constitutional debate – is qualified majority voting within the Council. We have always been clearly in favour of this system. I would like Minister Roche to explain to this House how many times the Ioannina Compromise has been applied in the past, because there may well be proposals which take that route, which would not be the best ones. I would also like to add another important element, which appears in the draft approved in Thessaloniki but which then disappears from sight: there must be a legislative Council, because laws must be created in public and transparently, and there must also be a shared legislative power, not only to create laws, but also to approve budgets. Finally, Mr President – and I address this to the President of Parliament – there is a specific request from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs which is of very great importance, and that is that the President of Parliament, and our representatives in the Intergovernmental Conference, should be able to participate fully in the debates of that conference. And also that during this period, given that the European Parliament remains constituted, that this House can be informed by the most appropriate means. There is nothing to prevent this and it is important from the point of view of the timetable proposed to us by the President-in-Office of the Council. I believe that this is an extremely important element and that in Parliament we are naturally going to be campaigning. And a noble element of this campaign is that we contribute to making progress on the Constitution. A final point which relates to the debate we will hold tomorrow: Mr President-in-office of the Council, we must make progress not just on the composition of the Commission, but also on the simultaneous mandate to that of Parliament. We are now in a very complicated situation. A new President-in-Office of the Council is going to be proposed. There is an excessively long period in a transitional and temporary situation and that is not good either for the Commission or for the European Union. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these are grave times. The chronicle of a war foretold is becoming reality. On behalf of my group, the Socialist Group, I profoundly regret the failure of the peaceful approach and I hope that there is no mass destruction of the civilian population, bringing a trail of death and destruction to a population a half of which is under fifteen years old. The Iraqi people are suffering a twin punishment: the punishment it suffers under Saddam Hussein, and the additional punishment of an unjust war. In the face of this extremely serious situation, we once again call on the governments of the Member States of our Union and of its future members not to participate in a unilateral pre-emptive war which is morally and legally dubious and which is contrary to the wishes of the majority of Europeans.  Our group would like once again to call on the European Council to meet today to increase its efforts, to overcome the current division and to find a single European voice. Our Union is a community of values governed by law and the Member States are obliged to abide by the solidarity and mutual commitments laid down in the Treaties and which lie behind the CFSP. Our current situation is really very difficult. The European Union is divided, the United Nations is in deadlock and we are witnessing the philosophy of the unavoidable war. However, we must not indulge in pessimism or defeatism. Mr Michel Rocard has rightly said that none of our governments questions that Saddam Hussein is a dangerous war criminal, who in the past has sought to acquire weapons of mass destruction by any possible means, that his word and his signature cannot inspire confidence and that the dictator must be subjected to the justice of the International Criminal Court – something which this Parliament voted for in January with the opposition of the PPE-DE. This is something we must persevere with. The difference between us is in the rhythm and the means. In other words, we must be able to ask ourselves why we Europeans have become so radically divided. And that is our responsibility. And in this regard I share the view of the President of the Party of European Socialists, Robin Cook, who said in the House of Commons that our interests are better protected by means of multilateral agreements and by a world order governed by rules rather than by unilateral actions.  Ladies and gentlemen, the question is not whether or not we are friends of the United States. We are loyal partners and not servants.  The difference at the moment is that we do not share the Bush Administration’s doctrine of pre-emptive attack. And I do not accept that Jimmy Carter is any less American because he argues that this war is unjust. That is absolutely absurd.  And there is a further element, and that is that the current United States administration wishes to redraw the entire map of the Middle East, a century after the two European colonial powers – Great Britain and France – carved up the Middle East with a ruler and pen, and one only needs to look at the map. There is no place for this in today’s world. And what is absolutely obscene is that we are told, as we all know, that the market for the reconstruction of Iraq is already shared out – and at the head of the queue is the company which was presided over by the Vice-President of the United States until two years ago. This is unacceptable. Commissioner, my group will vote for humanitarian aid administered by civilians in Iraq. With regard to reconstruction, we will have to discuss this, but it should not fall to us to pay for the damage caused by others, as is happening for example in the case of Palestine.  This is therefore a responsibility for the Commission. And if you will allow me: I appreciate that, following 11 September, there is fear in the United States, but a great American, a great American President, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, at the moment when he launched the United States into the noble cause of liberating Europe – with the exception of my country unfortunately – said that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself. And therefore we cannot live in fear and terror. We must live in a positive way. And when we call for dialogue with other cultures, I must say to you, Mr Poettering, that dialogue with Islam – not only with the Arab people – must be based on something positive, and the great Arab poet from my country, from Cordoba, Ibn-Hamz de Córdoba, said rightly that the flower of war is infertile, and that is something we must bear very much in mind.  Dialogue cannot begin on the basis of threats and war. Allow me to add, in relation to what happened in the Security Council – and there are many countries which have refused to bow to pressure – that, as Robin Cook has also said, we cannot ignore the essential fact, and that is that, if we really believe in an international community based on binding rules and institutions, we cannot simply forget about them when their results do not suit us. This is an essential point. If we believe in the United Nations, we must support it and we must strengthen it. We cannot unilaterally take the responsibility of saying that what has been done so far makes no sense. If we all want peace, if we are against bloodthirsty tyrants, if we are in favour of an active policy of destroying weapons of mass destruction, we must be able, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to unite ourselves once again, and what my group respectfully asks is that you deliver this message, this demand, supported by millions of our fellow European citizens, so that the European Council speaks clearly, and so that we are capable of uniting and also of seriously relaunching the Middle East peace process – which is absolutely essential – and ensuring our future as a strong, consolidated and capable European Union in our own eyes and in the eyes of the world. Mr President, I am speaking to ask the Presidency to communicate with the honourable Member Mr Hans-Peter Martin and ask him to submit to the same procedure that Mr Schulz and other German colleagues have agreed to submit to with regard to the accusations made against them, particularly in the Austrian press. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have taken good note of the complicated statement of the President-in-Office of the Council. To put it clearly, what you want is for the text not to be touched. Amongst other things, it cannot be touched: if 80% are in agreement and then there are 150 amendments which are not supported by a sufficient majority, your duty is to maintain it. Furthermore, we must remember the governments that were present and participated in the Convention. The problem is that they have now locked the doors and left Parliament and the Commission outside. The members of the Convention from the Socialist family met last week and we reached the conclusion that we do not want any backtracking in relation to the Convention. We expect there to be progress and improvements – we agree on that – and our priorities are: firstly, that the binding nature of the Charter of Fundamental Rights should not be called into question; that the secular nature of European integration is a founding principle, and, in this regard, we believe that the text of the Constitution is absolutely correct and must not be modified. We also believe that the legislative powers, not only of Parliament but also of the Council, must not be weakened in the legislative field or in the budgetary field, and we believe that the legislative Council must be maintained. We also believe that the economic and social governance of the Union should be turned into a reality, which means that the progress made in the first part of the Constitution should be reflected in the third part, dedicated to the Union’s policies, and furthermore that the legal basis for the protection and development of public services must be maintained, and then it will be able to be enshrined in a framework law. With regard to the issues which you have pointed out and which were dealt with yesterday, the Foreign Minister must be a member and Vice-President of the Commission. With regard to the review, you yourself have said that the Danish Government – and Denmark was the home of Hamlet – after opting-out, wants to opt-in. We must not close doors; we must provide the possibility of review. With regard to an issue which was raised yesterday by President Prodi, which is highly topical, we believe, specifically with regard to the budgetary powers – and we address this to Ecofin – that it is time for Ecofin to have a Community culture. Perhaps we should give the Finance and Economics Ministers a copy of the Treaties. We cannot systematically act on an intergovernmental basis.  Furthermore I would like to stress that Parliament, with regard to the budget, is as responsible, or even more so, as the Council, and we have demonstrated this repeatedly. It is unacceptable to try to modify the Treaties by this means. I believe we should protest and demonstrate our indignation very clearly to Ecofin, which has taken ten years to accept the Delors plan for infrastructures. Why has this been paralysed for ten years? Why does Ecofin have power over the European Council? I believe that this issue is absolutely fundamental for all of us. Mr President, I will end by mentioning a topical issue, the issue of enlargement. I would agree with the comments of Commissioner Verheugen: I would say to our current members, because they are already here, that we voted for the Treaty of Nice in Parliament because we wanted enlargement, not because we liked the Treaty. We never liked the Treaty of Nice. But what we cannot now say is that France and Germany understand each other, after centuries of concern for Europeans because France and Germany were enemies. I believe that we should show the minimum of coherence. I would ask the Commission to maintain its approach in order to demonstrate that nobody is privileged with regard to pacts, and I am referring to the Stability and Growth Pact. I believe, Mr President, that that message should be made absolutely clear to the Conference. Maintain your position so that we may have a Constitution for all Europeans. – Mr President, with regard to this proposal, please allow me to remind the House that, in my capacity as President of the European Parliament, in 1991, I had the honour of presenting the Sakharov Prize, in the absence of Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi, to her husband, a British citizen who has since died. She has continued to fight for the same cause since 1991. I believe that, rather than hold a topical and urgent debate, we should make an appeal and pay homage to the perseverance of Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi, and also support her just cause. –  Mr President, Presidents-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I shall limit my speech to the subject of the Middle East, because I understand that this was the agreement reached by Parliament on Monday. Then I believe we need to discuss the Brok and Titley Reports – and I congratulate both rapporteurs on their work – and the rest of my group will talk about other subjects. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the facts are indisputable and do not currently allow for the cautious optimism you have expressed with regard to the Middle East. Unfortunately, every day we receive the most terrible, bleak news of the situation. We unreservedly condemn the mass suicide attacks against the population. We also condemn the fact that there is a continuous list of deaths every day, but, most of all, I believe we now need to address the Israeli Government – the government presided over by Mr Sharon – which is well aware that the physical and political destruction of the Palestinian Authority and its headquarters will not help either to end the attacks or to put an end to a desire that is unanimous at international level, the creation of the Palestinian State, even more so at a time when things are happening in Palestine which are important for democrats: the threat of a vote of no confidence, the resignation of the government and the announcement of forthcoming general elections. In that context and in that part of the world, this is something that must be taken into account. Now, therefore, in keeping with our multilateral focus and our respect for the UN – and let us remember that it was the UN that created the State of Israel by means of a resolution – Israel must be told that it must fulfil each and every one of the UN resolutions, and that no one has the right to choose which resolutions they wish to apply, on the pretext that they are biased. This must clearly be our line of approach, and I therefore wish to express here the support of my group for Resolution No 1435, and to ask for the immediate withdrawal of Israeli forces from within, outside and around Ramallah and the withdrawal of occupying forces from Palestinian cities. That is the way that corresponds to the three-stage plan you mentioned. We also welcome the statement made by the High Representative and we ask that you take a stronger line with regard to the Quartet so that true changes can take place. I also hope Mr Patten will allow me the liberty of asking him to tell us about an important political and budgetary aspect, concerning his reference to Israeli and Community payments into the same account. I ask him to provide Parliament with a detailed report analysing the destruction caused in Palestine territory by the Israeli State and funded by the European budget.  The taxpayers, our citizens, have a right to know this and it should be made public. In conclusion, Mr President, I would say that you should continue with your work, because it is absolutely necessary and there is no other way of overcoming a situation in which, at any given time, the only question we can ask ourselves is how much blood must be shed for both parties to be able to overcome this kind of tragic escalation. –  Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the framework for our transatlantic relations, I believe we have to start with the current framework, which is the Madrid Declaration of December 1995, issued under the Spanish Presidency. I do not recall that the President-in-Office of the Council mentioned this declaration, which defines our framework; I do not know whether that is because a Socialist government adopted it, but in any case, as it was the Presidency of the Union, I recommend that he should take it into account this May, and Mr Elles will not deny this since we worked together at the time for the Spanish Government to push this very important declaration through the Council. I really must say to the President-in-Office of the Council that I believe this declaration should be brought up to date, for various reasons. First, because of the situation since 11 September: we have not merely shown our solidarity with the United States, but we have also adopted measures. In this fight, however, as in all others – I must be frank about this – we are allies, but we have to work together on an equal footing, and our American allies – as some ministers in the Union have said – must understand that we are equals and subservience has no place here, which means that we must not systematically bow to unilateral decisions. This applies to many things. We have to act jointly in the Middle East, Afghanistan and the Balkans; it is to be hoped that the United States will reconsider their position on Kyoto and especially with regard to certain worrying announcements by the Bush Administration. With regard to the specific question of the steel issue, which the Commissioner, Mr Lamy, has developed further, we believe that we must adopt a firm stance and we also support taking reprisal measures. We do not understand why, for example, the United States trade representative, Mr Zoellick, is today developing the worldwide international conspiracy theory to say that the United States is being attacked through steel imports. The history of the European Union began with the Coal and Steel Community, which was a restructuring process. I understand that Mr Bush wants to win elections, but what the Americans have to do is restructure their steel industry, which will demand sacrifice, and we should not have to pay for the restructuring of American industry. We have to make this quite plain and, in addition, there are proposals such as applying a 2% surcharge so as to be able to restructure the industry. What does not make sense is that we should have to pay this, when in this Parliament we systematically have to deal with the banana war, hormones and GMOs, and we always have to check the list to see what reprisal measures we can take within the bounds of our own countries. Our American friends and allies have to understand that we cannot go on working like this, and we therefore call on the Commission to take the strongest line possible to make them see reason. – Mr President, in order to add to the information you have provided on the possible mission to the Ivory Coast, there is firstly the issue of security and then, as well, that of carrying out the mission in relation to the ACP Assembly, because, in this type of case – and I had expressed this to Mr Scarbonchi, and I do not therefore understand the accusation directed at my group, bearing in mind that the President of the Ivory Coast is a Vice-President of the Socialist International – we must take special care not to give the impression that we are indulging in neo-colonialism. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, we are today taking part in what has become almost an annual ritual, namely the debate on the state of the Lisbon strategy in the run up to the Spring Summit. It is useful to go back to basic principles. These principles include a renewed European social model, based on common shared values, with a sustainable strategy for solidarity and economic and social development. This catalogue of good intentions does need to be given tangible form, however. I believe the saying that the road to hell is paved with good intentions is common to all our languages. Proclaiming and restating these good intentions year after year is not enough. What is required instead is a critical analysis of how the Lisbon strategy is being implemented. This has been clearly stated today, notably by the Commission. In this election year I should like to highlight certain issues of particular concern. It is all well and good to refer to the internal market and financial services. It should also be borne in mind, however, that the impasse concerning taxation of income from capital and unacceptable monopoly situations needs to be overcome. It is all well and good to refer to the development of services, but it is also necessary to respond to the concerns regarding ever-increasing relocation and the need for an industrial strategy for Europe. We must therefore prove that we are capable of working together to develop our approach to implementing the Lisbon Agenda. Mr President, I hope you will allow me to refer to current developments. Firstly, my group and Parliament as a whole feel that the entry into force of economic and monetary union called for strengthening economic governance. I believe that was the majority view enshrined in our stance on the Convention. The Commissioner mentioned this. One of the meetings of our leaders has attracted special media attention. I refer to the meeting held in Berlin, where the creation of the post of Super-Commissioner for economic affairs was proposed. This is certainly an important issue. It implies agreement to apply the Community method. This is absolutely crucial. It also implies agreeing to what the governments were opposed to at the Convention. Opinions have changed. It is now deemed necessary to strengthen economic union. This can be translated into a corrective approach. Readiness to correct is a sign of wisdom. There is a willingness to amend the draft constitution in this regard. I do not believe the House would have difficulty in offering clear support to such an approach. After all, it does not make sense to discuss the creation of the post of Foreign Minister and not to have an equivalent post for economic affairs. I am sure Commissioner Solbes will be happy to support this proposal, or even to defend it before the Commission. Another important aspect is involved. Discussion of reform should not be restricted solely to discussion about dismantling social gains and the welfare state. The Irish, Dutch, Danish and Swedish models prove conclusively that it is possible to be highly competitive, have an efficient economy whilst enjoying a high level of protection. Reform must therefore be based on these models. The reform process is not incompatible with retaining the principles that made Europe great. I should like to make a further important point, Mr President. The Commissioner mentioned it in passing. I refer to setting the forthcoming financial perspective. The Irish Presidency will be responsible for launching that debate too. It is a most important issue, because it so happens that further to that Berlin Summit and to a certain letter, there is talk of wanting to undertake far more activity with far fewer resources. I have in mind for example the Lisbon strategy and enlargement. It is all becoming an issue of blind faith. It does not make sense simply to hope for miracles. Applying sensible economic principles most certainly does make sense, however. Consequently, in order to discharge its responsibility, the Commission made a proposal presented to the House by Commissioner Barnier. The 1.24% of GDP proposed may seem too tight, but we believe it is the minimum worth considering. In France, my home country, and elsewhere in the European Union researchers are out on the streets demonstrating. I repeat, the researchers are out on the streets, not just the workers. It is simply not possible to call for more research and then drastically cut resources.  It is therefore essential to give full support to the plan proposed by Commissioner Reding and developed by Commissioner Busquin. As I conclude, Mr President, I should like to mention three more issues. Firstly, we continue to have every confidence in the Irish Presidency and trust that in March it will be able to present a viable proposal aimed at moving the Constitution forward. Secondly, we believe the agreement reached in Cyprus must be supported. In our view, it is very important for the future of the Union. Lastly, on the occasion of the visit of an Iranian Nobel Prize winner to this House, I would like to say that I believe the Union must stand firm in its support of democracy in Iran. It must also continue to express its criticism of the conduct of elections in that country. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest achievement of European construction is the fact that for half a century we have broken the pattern of war, replacing it with peace and a shared destiny. The European peoples do not just co-exist in the Union, but we share a destiny in brotherhood and mutual tolerance. And we are still constructing Europe, with difficulties, but the united Europe is not the old Europe of endemic civil wars between us nor the new Europe which was preached by fascism and Nazism. At this time much more unites us than divides us. We all want peace, we are all against bloodthirsty dictators and we all want to see the disappearance of weapons of mass destruction. In families – and in the Union – there can be moments of tension, but we must be able to overcome them through solidarity and mutual compromise. The approach which can unite Europe is the mandate of the United Nations, respect for international law and the continuation of the inspectors’ work. We are not condemned to war; we must work to give peace a chance. In this context, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Group of the European Socialist Party support and welcome the correct and timely initiative of President Simitis: we must do everything possible to find a common position and overcome the disagreements within the Council and also with the candidate countries, who are already members of our Union. I would like to correct Mr Poettering on a point relating to the isolation of the current German government. I would like to remind him that the first government of the German Federal Republic since the war to fully assume its responsibilities in the international field was the Socialist/Green coalition of Chancellor Schröder. Before that there was nothing more than passivity. Therefore the Schröder government is not isolated, it is in good company.  From the point of view of our responsibilities as the European Parliament, we were significantly united in the resolution approved in January by a large majority – from which, curiously, the Group of the European Peoples’ Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats withdrew at the last moment, after having negotiated it. My Group would ask the President to use the resolution as a guide for his speech on Monday, in which we urge him to make a solemn appeal and to insist on the need for the United Nations Security Council resolutions to be fully applied and complied with, to express opposition to any unilateral action and to consider that a preventive attack does not conform to the United Nations Charter, and that he also urge the Council and the Member States to take the initiative of proposing to the International Criminal Court that the Iraqi leader is responsible for war crimes and crimes against humanity. In this regard, it is important to point out that at this time we must not anticipate events. The military machine must not be allowed to take on its own dynamic, leading us into war, the war is still avoidable and the United Nations Organisation is still necessary. The geopolitical effects of action adopted unilaterally outside the framework of the Security Council would be catastrophic not only for Iraq but for the whole of the Middle East, with unpredictable consequences. We must not forget that Iraq, despite everything, is still a secular and religiously pluralist regime, which is important in view of the situation of increasing fundamentalism. We have heard the Commission’s report on the humanitarian issue – and I thank Commissioner Nielson – which also points out the risks involved in this. We must therefore carry on supporting the inspectors, insisting that Iraq comply with the resolutions of the Security Council without allowing it to make any excuse or evasive response. In this context, the inspection chiefs have noted that it is a positive step that Iraq has agreed to allow surveillance flights and is cooperating. At the moment, the international community has put is faith in the inspectors. They must continue their work and we must support them. Finally, Mr President, since 11 September we have insisted on the need to coordinate efforts with the United States and we have expressed our solidarity with this great country in the fight against the threat of international terrorism. This is not only a result of our historic gratitude and friendship, arising from the role of the United States in favour of European democracy in the two world wars. The issue today is not the extent to which we are friends on paper with the United States. We are in disagreement – and this must be said – over the doctrine of preventive war. We are even more in disagreement and we totally reject the unfortunate comments of the Secretary of State, Mr Rumsfeld, in Munich last week, insulting a European country and not explaining the thing he should explain: why, as Secretary of the Reagan administration, he went to Baghdad to give weapons of mass destruction to his then ally, Saddam Hussein. This must be explained.  Mr President, I will end by saying that we are friends and allies who behave like genuine friends: we say what we think. We are allies of the United States as a result of shared historical responsibilities and principles. We must fight to give peace and hope a chance. We are not condemned to the disaster of war and mass destruction, and we call on President-in-Office Simitis to speak on behalf of a Europe with one harmonious voice next Monday. Mr President, I would like to say firstly that you have the support and the thanks of the Socialist Group for the statement you have just made.  Having said that, I would like to refer to the point of order I raised this morning at 9 a.m., at the beginning of the session, jointly with other group presidents, with regard to the re-inclusion of the Boogerd-Quaak report on freedom of expression and information in today's vote. I raised the issue this morning and I leave it to the Presidency to choose when it can be dealt with in depth. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me first of all to congratulate the Greek Presidency on its courage and determination. Like Ulysses, you have navigated through turbulent waters, and there were perhaps times when you should have tied certain members of the crew to the mast when the transatlantic Sirens began to sing, but we do have time to improve the situation. The central issue in this debate is the future of Europe, and it is within this framework that the Convention is working. I would also like to welcome the speech by the President of the Commission and to reaffirm, on behalf of my group, that we, who are working for the Convention, and who are participating actively, believe that it should produce a draft Constitution, and not just a list of options. This is an absolutely fundamental point. We also believe that to affirm the secular nature of the Europe we are building is a positive element, because it demonstrates our respect for all religions and for the complexity of our history. Consider, for example, that in Thessaloniki, until the Second World War, there lived the largest group of Sephardic Jews expelled from my country, which has a Greek, Roman, Christian, Muslim and Jewish history. It is a good thing that we are affirming Europe's secular role in this way. With regard to external personality, it is also important, as the President of the Commission has said, that we genuinely affirm the fundamental principles and the criterion of majority as a working system. The Greek Presidency has indicated that the stabilisation and integration of the Balkans is an absolutely essential issue. And we must remember that, when we launched the CSFP, our first failure came when we were unable to reach agreement amongst ourselves. And that is what exacerbated the Yugoslavian tragedy. When we began to work together in Kosovo and Macedonia we were able to improve. With regard to the final work of the Convention, I would like to point out firstly that the important thing is that no possibilities are ruled out, in other words, that the constitutional text allows us to evolve, because the text itself will not be able to change reality, but rather we must be able to continue with the Community method. And this involves certain fundamental issues. Firstly, the question of the Commission. If we say that the President of the Commission must be elected on the basis of the result of elections, this means, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you must make the Statute on European political parties an essential issue on the agenda at Thessaloniki, because without protagonists we will not be able to create a genuine democracy, in which the President of the Commission has democratic legitimacy, and I must say that it does not appear that the Council attaches great importance to this point at the moment. Secondly, with regard to the composition of the Commission, I would say that this is an open debate within all political families but, in any event, what we must do is strengthen the Commission's capacity as a college and the authority of its President. With regard to the establishment of a Council Presidency of a dual nature, President Prodi is well aware, as we all are, that such dual systems are not stable. There must be one body with executive power. We must support improvements in the Council's internal organisation, but an organisation based on two institutions which, to a certain extent, overlap, will not be stable. The very important issue for Parliament is the need to enshrine the power of the law, of shared legislative power, which means that the Council must also act in a democratic and open way and, at the same time, we must maintain the institutional balance. With regard to the Statute for Members of the European Parliament, I would like to insist on one point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I would also like the President of the Commission to give his view on it during this debate. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this issue does not relate to Parliament’s internal system. It is an entirely constitutional issue and therefore what you have to do at this point is not to resolve the problem, but essentially not to oppose the solution we have offered, which furthermore justifies and supports the need for majority decision-making. Remember one thing: in relation to taxation, Nice decided on unanimity, and this is producing entirely negative results. Everybody must face their responsibilities, and you have responsibility in relation to an entirely constitutional issue. Mr President, please allow me to refer very briefly to two important issues. One is the economy. There has been a G8 Summit, in which the President of the Commission has participated. I would like you to be a little more explicit with regard to the development of the Lisbon strategy and also the euro, which is an issue of concern us, above all because the European economy is not working as a motor. Finally, with regard to the transatlantic Summit at the end of this month, it is very important to demonstrate the will of both sides to once again take up our responsibilities within a multilateral context, particularly at a time when there are signs of hope in the Middle East peace process and an opportunity to work for the future of the United Nations. Mr President, we must say to our American allies – and I am thinking of the extradition treaty – that they must treat us with equality, respecting our own legislative capacity and, above all, they must give us explanations – this is an important point – with regard to the entirely unacceptable situation of certain European citizens, in that law-free zone known as the Guantánamo base. This is also of importance in terms of our future relations. In any event, it is very important that you take a significant step, respecting and supporting the results of a Convention which leads us to a European Constitution. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I must begin by speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group. I would like to convey our condolences to the families of all those who lost their lives in recent terrorist attacks. We stand shoulder to shoulder with the families of the Italian servicemen and of the Iraqi citizens who died. We also wish to express our solidarity with the families of victims of the attacks on the synagogues in Istanbul. The latter represent the Sephardi community in Turkey. The word Sepharad means Spain in Hebrew. It should be recalled that five centuries ago those Jewish communities found a haven of tolerance in the Ottoman Empire when my own country was not disposed to accept them. Moving on, Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Poettering for bringing politics into this debate. It does seem strange that we are unable to speak of politics here. I did indeed say to the President of the Commission that he ought to resign if ever he decided to stand in the elections to the European Parliament. I said more besides. Firstly, the President of the Commission currently enjoys the support of practically all shades of the political spectrum in the House. He must therefore fulfil his responsibilities. As a citizen, however, he is entitled to make known his vision of the future of Europe. I therefore believe that the fact that he drafted this document on the European dream is a positive development. I should add that I find the document far superior to the speech he gave today. This said, I detected a degree of pique in what Mr Poettering said. He seemed to resent that someone who apparently belonged to one side should have defected to the other. As I see it, one has every right to correct oneself and mature as a person as one journeys through life. I for one welcome the fact that President Prodi has adopted a more socially and politically progressive stance. There should be abundant opportunity to discuss this in the future. In any case, between now and the last day of this legislature what we really need is a strong and determined Commission. I would say that the same applies to the Council. I believe the most outrageous behaviour we have witnessed during these last few days was when the President of the Council departed totally from the line taken by the Council of Ministers, the Commission and Parliament. He made unacceptable pronouncements concerning Chechnya and Russia. You all have the power to rectify the situation. We could join together when we vote tomorrow on the draft resolution on the Russia Summit. I should now like to focus on President Prodi’s speech. Firstly, I should like to say that I am not about to complain on behalf of my group about there being fewer proposals. Our difficulty is simply that we do not know what the proposals are. We have been informed that Vice-President de Palacio plans to meet committee chairmen. No doubt we shall find out then. In connection with assessing the Commissioners’ politics I should just like to mention that I shall be sending Mr Poettering the statements made on the Socialists by Mrs de Palacio. It has to be said that she does not miss a single Popular Party function in Spain. Mr Prodi is not the only one to be active in politics back home. We all are. Mr Prodi resorted to expressions more commonly used by weather forecasters in order to describe growth. He stated the outlook was set fair. I believe it would be very helpful for him to explain, on behalf of the Commission, how the latter intends to adapt the Stability and Growth Pact to the new situation. This is a crucially important request. It goes hand in hand with the need to strengthen economic governance. I have also been struck by the fact that the financial perspective has been left until last, as if it were an afterthought. The Delors plan of ten years ago has indeed been revived. As I see it, it is important to discuss research and development, not just infrastructure. They are the nervous system energising the whole of the Community. I have also been struck that so little detail has been provided concerning reform of cohesion policy following the debate on the Sapir report and Commissioner Barnier’s statements. I believe the President of the Commission should be much more explicit. After all, this issue is crucial to the new Member States and also to the balance between current Member States. Secondly, Mr Prodi devoted practically half of this speech to Eurostat. I would like to suggest a number of qualifications here. Firstly, through the Casaca report, the European Parliament played a decisive role in the Eurostat issue, over and above the many reports drafted within the Commission and OLAF. I believe this must be emphasised, because new instruments are being introduced whilst overlooking the crucial role played by the European Parliament. I regret the other groups in the House did not agree to debate the Bösch report on fraud to coincide with the President’s presence. This report is available and the President himself referred to it. Regarding Eurostat, I note the proposal to define the nature of political responsibility and the reform of the Commission’s code of conduct. Nonetheless, I am surprised that a new instrument amounting in practice to a duplication of OLAF is now being proposed. I fear we may end up in a situation resembling the one illustrated by a cartoon from the Soviet era. This cartoon showed a citizen being trailed by two KGB agents. They were in turn being trailed by a further two agents and so on. The line of people all minding each other went off into the distance. This is not a case of multiplying the instruments, but of acting in a clear and democratic manner. There is an important role for Parliament to play here. I do not think that the situation will be resolved by creating a new power centre within the Commission. Finding a loophole in every law is a widespread human weakness. I believe there are sayings to this effect in every language. There is certainly one in Spanish. It follows that bringing out more and more rules and regulations will not necessarily improve matters. What is required is the option of specific monitoring. In my view, the idea of establishing a link between OLAF and the European Prosecutor could be a way forward. I would like to hear the Council’s view on this rather than the Commission’s, since the main opposition to the European Prosecutor comes from the governments. It is not a contentious issue amongst ourselves. Mr President, I therefore feel it is essential to negotiate an urgent procedure to allow these issues to be discussed before the end of this legislature. President of the Commission, I would like to enquire whether you were thinking of a compromise solution for the December Conference Summit when you referred to 25 or 30 Commissioners. If the two figures are added together some countries end up with two Commissioners. My final point is the following: I should like to know if you are standing by your proposal to distribute portfolios and organise a Commission composed of so-called senior and junior Commissioners. –  Mr President, I would be grateful if you could give your warning about speaking time at the beginning of the debate, and to the Commission and the Council too, so that we can all have an equal share of the little time available.  Mr Solana, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, with regard to the situation in the Middle East, I must state that, following the escalation we have seen in recent months, Mr Solana’s words give grounds for hope. I must say that, given the experiences of the last year, the announcement of forthcoming elections in Israel is to be welcomed, firstly because the voice of the people must always be listened to and, secondly, because my group – and friends sometimes have to say things that are unpleasant – publicly criticised the Israeli Labour Party for its participation in the current government and in spring asked it to withdraw from it. I believe that we should welcome the Labour Party’s withdrawal from the government and also its reason for leaving, which was its refusal to vote for funds for new settlements. This is a very significant fact, because I share the view expressed by Mr Solana that the greatest danger we currently face is that of the occupied territories’ ending up as a real Swiss cheese, as a type of Bantustan, which will make the creation of a Palestinian State impossible. Since Mr Netanyahu has called Mr Solana, I would ask him to tell Mr Netanyahu, first of all, that although we have taken stock of the destruction that has taken place, we are prepared to support not only humanitarian action but also the reconstruction of the bases on which a Palestinian Authority could exist. Mr Solana should also tell him that, instead of bulldozers, he should perhaps send in ballot-boxes and encourage elections to be held for the Palestinian Authority too. I think that this would be a major step forward. It is hard to believe that the far right could mount a challenge and indulge in blackmail against a trio such as Messrs Sharon, Netanyahu and Mofaz. They have truly been one step away from the abyss, but have realised that there is no alternative to the proposal by the Quartet and to the creation of two States and I believe that we must persevere with this approach. With regard to the situation in Iraq, it should be emphasised that, despite our differences, we in Europe have managed to ensure that this issue has been addressed in the United Nations, that this has been done within an international framework and also that not only has the authority of the United Nations Security Council been recognised once again but also that an opening has been created that will enable us to avoid, if I might put it this way, fire being poured onto the oil, which would run the major risk of setting the entire region alight. I should also like to know how Mr Solana is going to help the European Union Member States of the Security Council, of which there will certainly be four in January, to coordinate their action as much as possible. Lastly, I wish to make a very brief comment on the situation in Chechnya. My group fully supports the view expressed by Parliament in its Resolution, that is to say, total condemnation of the terrorist attack, an expression of solidarity with the victims, some criticism of the way in which the Russian State acted, also with regard to the lives and safety of its own citizens, and the need, not in this context, but the need to include the importance of reaching a negotiated solution on the agenda of our next summit with Russia. In any event, Mr President, and with this I shall conclude, I believe we must encourage Mr Solana, the Vice-President of the Commission and our representatives to continue the efforts to mediate and to achieve a de-escalation that they have been making in these three conflicts – Mr President, I believe we are all in favour of the International Criminal Court. There are no disagreements about this. We are dealing with an issue of procedure and my Group is in favour of a debate with a resolution in the second September part-session. But if you will allow me, Mr President, I am going to make a proposal which I believe will interest Mr Cohn-Bendit and many other members of the House. I would also point out that my Group expressed its disagreement with dealing with a question on Mercosur during this sitting. My proposal is as follows: the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy should include this issue in its next meeting, with an express request to the Commission to communicate the opinion, which appears to exist, on the possible consequences for a Member State of altering its position in relation to a common position adopted, since there is a common position on this point, and, apparently, that represents a violation of the Treaties. The issue is very important and I would ask – I cannot see Mr Brok, but I imagine this will be communicated to him – that the Foreign Affairs Committee consider it. In a common position, we have all – the Member States and Parliament – given our word. This should be looked into and, if it is a violation of the Treaties, Parliament would be in a much stronger position to condemn any possible unilateral change of position on such an important issue. Mr President, at a time like this we Europeans who are working together here must remind ourselves of the fundamental elements that unite us, and we must remember that we are working for a united, democratic Europe which combats racism and xenophobia. Let us remember what President Mitterrand said in his last speech in this House: ‘’. This is an essential principle of our co-existence which we must state loud and clear today.  Furthermore, Mr President, I believe – and I address this to my respected friend, Shimon Peres, who said yesterday in Madrid that he was worried about the growth in anti-Semitism in Europe – that we also all have to be concerned about the demonstrations of intolerance we are seeing on our continent. All we European democrats, all we European citizens must combat this blight, this cancer which has caused so much misery throughout our history.  Having said this, Mr President, I would like to thank you for giving us the opportunity to speak with Mr Burg, President of the Knesset, today. We have held a frank and tough debate in our group with our Labour colleague, Mr Burg, and we hope that President Abu Alá can come here to speak to us very soon. Here we have to build bridges towards peace in the Middle East. Turning to the report by the President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to say that, with regard to the Euromed Conference, you know that we share your objectives. You have said that it was a wonderful idea, but you failed to mention that the idea was not an orphan, but that the last Spanish Presidency started it. Perhaps you could convey a compliment to Mr Solana, who is not here, and thus treat him as you would like him to treat his successor. In any event, what the President-in-Office of the Council has said today contains one essential idea: a network of association agreements is being created little by little, the agreement with Algeria has just been signed, and that is very positive. The problem is – and I also address this to the President-in-Office of the Council – that no notice has been taken of what Parliament said in its last resolution, because we are everybody’s friend and we want to be partners and associates of all the countries of the Mediterranean. That is the fundamental principle and when we have two associates who are in conflict with each other, the least we can say to one associate is: ‘Do not keep them in such a stranglehold and let them breathe a bit’. It is an absolutely fundamental principle. That is why we are asking for the Association Council to be convened. The Secretary of State, Mr de Miguel, stated very enthusiastically in this House that the Spanish Presidency maintained this principle. I would like to know if he still maintains this principle. We also said other things: we are in favour of an intervention force, we are in favour of blocking arms exports. These are ideas which I believe the Council should develop, because it makes no sense to come to Parliament to complain that our diplomats are being treated badly and then say that all options are open. We must be a bit more decisive. I agree with the pertinent observations of the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Patten, when he states clearly that in Jenin there is a human and historic responsibility to shed light on what has happened, and that Mr Ahtisaari is a completely honourable person like the other Members and we cannot allow vetoes, not because they are European, but because we are all subject to the principles and under the aegis of the United Nations. We are also willing to work on the reconstruction of the Palestinian infrastructure, but we do not understand why it has been destroyed. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that it will not be destroyed again. Our partners must give us guarantees. We believe that it is absolutely essential to obey and respect the authority of the United Nations. I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are clearly in favour of the Quartet plus the Arab League – and Europe must play an important role here, Mr President-in-Office of the Council – carrying out their work on achieving a Madrid II, which is essential. And then, if we create a foundation that works, this could be very useful, but now the objectives should focus not on creating new foundations but on achieving a peace conference with European participation, with everybody’s participation, which may work. –Mr President, Mr High Representative, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the information presented today by the High Representative gives us hope despite the gravity of the situation. It is true that attacks are still taking place and it is also true that there are still summary executions, but there has been a change over the last month: there is the Mukata Agreement, the issue of the solution to the problem of the Church of the Nativity, and there are other important issues. One of them, which has been mentioned by the High Representative, is the vote in the Likud Congress. We must remember that Mr Netanyahu, who makes Mr Sharon look like a moderate, and Mr Sharon signed the Wye Plantation Agreements as executives of the State of Israel and that brings responsibilities. Something else has happened, and that is the demonstration by more than one hundred thousand people in Tel Aviv asking for immediate peace and, finally, a fact that is not usually mentioned, and that is that the Israeli Government has demobilised the reservists it had called up to punish Gaza, which I believe to be an important shift in approach. Knowing as we do that our action, the action of the High Representative and of our representatives in the region, is more effective in terms of its content than in terms of publicity – where the United States are ahead of us – I believe we must encourage them to continue along this road even if they do not appear in the European Parliament. I believe that the absence of Mr Solana on 24 April was fully justified; we have not asked him to explain it. Secondly, I believe we agree that we must speed up the creation of a Palestinian State, and I refer to the resolutions which began in 1948, at the time of the creation of the State of Israel. The High Representative said during his last appearance that, surely, on the basis of the Mitchell and Tenet plans, what we had to do was speed up and create a Palestinian State. And as he has said that we must ensure that the Palestinian State – or the Palestinian Authority – increasingly comes to resemble a State, I believe that the process needs to be speeded up, because one of the consequences of what is happening is that the identity and sense of responsibility of the Palestinian people has been strengthened enormously. I therefore believe that we must try to ensure that this process is as quick as possible. Turning now to the possible Peace Conference, Mr President, I believe that it must take place under the auspices of the UN – we must never forget that Israel was born as a result of a UN decision. On behalf of my group, I regret that there has been no follow-up to what happened in Jenin and that the International Commission of the United Nations has not been allowed to investigate events; if there has not really been a genocide, I believe that that investigation would even have helped Israel to present and justify its action. In any event, I believe we have to continue working with the Quartet and with the Arab League in order to stage this Conference without excluding anybody. I believe that the Israeli Prime Minister’s insistence that he wants to decide who to negotiate with is completely unacceptable: everybody has to represent themselves. Finally, Mr President, with regard to the accusations which have been made in certain sections of the media in the United States and also in the US congress – and we have just approved our resolution on transatlantic relations – branding us as anti-Semites, I would like to refer to the resolution we approved last month which reiterates our condemnation of anti-Jewish attacks in Europe. But I believe we should also tell those sections of the media and congressmen that they should reread the Bible and that both peoples are Semitic, they descend from Shem, son of Noah, and they also have a common ancestor in Abraham; both Arabs and Israelis are therefore Semitic. I am speaking on the basis of one fact, and that is that I feel more Semitic than anything else since, as I said in the Knesset, we Spaniards say that we have traces of Moorish and of Jewish blood. Therefore in reality the anti-Semites are the ones who really want to monopolise this issue. We believe that we have to try to ensure that these two peoples who have been brothers for five thousand years find a solution which allows them to live together, and therefore I believe that to make this type of accusation is not only unjustified, but also it makes absolutely no contribution to the necessary peace process in the Middle East. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, during this six-month period, the Council is going to deal with five historic challenges which the President-in-Office of the Council has mentioned. Firstly, enlargement. It is a fortunate coincidence that enlargement to ten is going to be signed in Athens, the cradle of democracy; and in a country such as Greece, which will hold the next Olympic games. Two inventions dating back 2 500 years which are foundation stones of the current Europe. And the Olympics were the first organised system of peace. All they need is access to the airport, but work is being done on that. During this six months, we must finish the first phase of enlargement: the ten countries. And you have also mentioned some other important challenges. Firstly, a reunified Cyprus. We entirely support any action you may take with a view to supporting the policy of Kofi Annan and we believe this is a very decisive step. Furthermore, and you have mentioned this, for the first time, you have in your hands –and I welcome Greece’s intelligent and courageous policy in relation to Turkey – the opportunity to play an historic role in terms of bringing us closer to Turkey. We are counting on your intelligence and flexibility. Secondly, the Lisbon Strategy. In this regard, we have seen that you insist on full employment, on technological development, on training and on social cohesion, which is an essential prerequisite for economic growth and not an obstacle. You have also held the Presidency of the monetary union since the middle of last year. In this regard, I would like to say that it is important that we increase our economic coordination. I am not going to ask you to employ such an interventionist and brutal policy as the United States, but it is important and necessary that Europe can be an economic driving force and end this stagnation. This is one of the Greek Presidency’s responsibilities. I would also address the President of the Commission. Mr Prodi, why do you not propose a world-wide Socrates in order to attract brains? This falls within the competence of the Commission and of course we in Parliament would support a proposal of this nature. In the economic chapter, the Greek Presidency has dedicated a section to maritime security, and following the drama we are witnessing of globalised shipwrecks, which are desolating our coasts – the  being just one more, not the only one – I believe that the Greek Presidency must play an important role. You have more than half the Community’s gross tonnage and plenty of experience. You have spoken of sustainable development and the protection of the environment. All of this must be integrated into a European maritime area, which could be one of the Greek Presidency’s great pieces of work. In terms of the policy on the third pillar, especially on immigration, the Greek Presidency is the first, since Tampere, to propose a proactive policy and not just a repressive one. In this regard, you can rely on Parliament in terms of the proposals you are going to make and I believe that, in this field, the Greek Presidency is showing the right way. With regard to the future of Europe, the Convention has passed its half-way point – as President Giscard d’Estaing reminded us in an article which has appeared today in the press. Under the Greek Presidency, we want the Convention to prepare a draft Constitution. In this regard, both the work of our colleague, Mr Giorgos Katiforis, in completing the social dimension, and of Georgios Papandreu, as an addition to the Presidium of the Convention, are important. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you must defend the Community method, which has allowed us to come this far, and which can inspire and organise our future. We would also ask you to carefully study the timetable for the inauguration of the European Parliament, so that we can carry out our investiture of the Commission correctly and in a manner which is agreed amongst all of us. Finally, Mr President, with regard to external relations, I would like to say that a war with Iraq can be prevented, that the European Union must speak with one voice and that we await with interest the result of the meeting you are going to hold in Brussels with Hans Blix, the head of the inspectors. You have a very important job: to coordinate four members of the Security Council, plus one candidate, and everything possible must be done so that, within the multilateral and civilised framework of the UN, we can make progress and prevent a war which is not only unnecessary, but also extremely dangerous, and so that we can impose the principles of international law. In this regard, Mr President-in-Office, and I will end here, please also continue an active policy in the Middle East. It is very important, everything is related, and you are our border with that region. It is essential that we are able to re-launch the Middle East peace process. On behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to offer you our support and I thank you for mentioning the Statute for Members of Parliament and parties, which is a sign of Greek capacity and wisdom. I wish you lots of luck. – Mr President, my group agrees with the modification of the agenda proposed by the GUE/NGL Group. However, given the seriousness of the events taking place, I would firstly like to add that we support the statement of the High Representative for the CFSP, Mr Solana, of 20 September; secondly, I would ask you – since no specific resolution on this issue is scheduled – to communicate, on behalf of Parliament, the resolution approved in April; and, thirdly, in the current circumstances, my group believes that the two hopeful amendments to the Brok report on the situation in the Middle East should be withdrawn. – Mr President, I think it would be appropriate for the Chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control to participate, since it is essential to respect the work of this House’s committees. – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we are getting increasingly close to what we asked for at the beginning of the legislature, that is, an annual political programme presented to Parliament with the participation of the Council – and I hope that Minister Haarder’s presence here is not superfluous and that he can also participate by responding to our comments, in line with visibility, transparency and democratic control. In this context, Mr President, please allow me to refer to a phrase that is in the programme – and which I believe is an error by the ‘hack’ who wrote it – which states that the programme provides the Commission’s input to the Council’s annual working programme. Could the President of the Commission clarify for us what this sentence means? Because what we believe is that Parliament is not taken into account and the Commission is reduced to the role of secretariat of the Council, and we disagree entirely with this kind of approach. I am going to focus on the three great priorities mentioned by the President and I will leave it to other Members to deal with specific aspects. With regard to enlargement, we spoke about this yesterday. Within the Community acquis, we attach great importance to the strengthening of the social dimension in the candidate countries, except in relation to the areas in which we believe the Commission should make more effort. And, apart from holding discussions – the final phase of the negotiations is yet to take place – there are certain issues which we should remember. For example, we are struck by the fact that in the report of the Court of Auditors this year it says that in the SAPAR pre-accession programme, only one million euros has been spent, which is 0.1%. We are always discussing quantities, but we must look at how they are spent and invested. We must debate this issue not only with the Commission, but also with our friends and, I hope very soon, neighbours, in the candidate countries. Secondly, with regard to the economic issue, which is absolutely central, we can see that the spirit of Lisbon and Gothenburg are still alive within the Commission. However, we must recognise that recent events have demonstrated that we are not playing a central role in terms of economic growth and, above all, there is a concern that economic governance is not being strengthened – and we will have to see what is happening in the Convention’s working group. In the long term, a monetary union which is not consolidated by an economic union and a political union is not viable; history has taught us this and we must take it very much into account in order to move forward. A final point on the economic and social priorities. As well as sustainable development, you, in relation to the framework directive on services of general interest, which was agreed in Barcelona, are proposing a Green Paper. We prefer a framework directive. With regard to stability and security, apart from the priority of terrorism, which is absolutely universal, the Swedish Presidency proposed a consideration of the demographic future of Europe. This should be linked to the issue of immigration. We welcome the fact – and in particular I am referring to the Members on the Right of the House – that you defend the role of legal immigration in relation to our welfare societies and our demographic future, but, in any event – and I am addressing the Council – I believe it would be very positive if there were a more active approach. With regard to the debate on the borders of Europe, you have spoken of the spirit and soul – I believe in lay terms – for all Europeans. Our former colleague, Mrs Palacio, Spanish Minister for Foreign Affairs, said that Europe is not a Christian club. I welcome this comment, which I believe is absolutely correct. In any event – also in relation to the Convention – it is important that we find formulae for qualified association. Please allow me to comment on the elements missing from the programme. The status of political parties is not included as a priority. Now that the Treaty of Nice has been approved, it is essential to make rapid progress in this regard in order to consolidate a fundamental element of European democracy. The Commission had already made a transitional proposal, even beforehand. Secondly, we are going to vote on a resolution – I believe with a large majority in this House – relating to freedom of expression and media concentration. In this regard, we would welcome a more dynamic attitude on the part of the Commission. Finally, and I will end here, Mr President, there is an issue which worries us very much: the agreements of the General Affairs Council last Monday. We have noted, from what we have been told and from leaks, that the President of the Commission is concerned to find a final date for the mandate of this Commission. I always thought that you would be a Commission that would be operational from the day of the elections. In any event, this is a constitutional issue. We are opposed to the General Affairs Council, without having debated the issue with Parliament and without you having presented it, taking a unilateral decision containing many elements which clearly clash with the Treaties. We therefore ask – and I address this to you, Mr President, so that it may be communicated to the President of Parliament – that the proposal for an interinstitutional agreement on this important issue be raised by the President in Copenhagen and I would like to hear an explanation today by both the President of the Commission and the Council. Mr President, my group respects the other groups. It is up to the Liberal Group to solve its own internal problems, but I put a question to the Council asking it to show its willingness to hold a dialogue and the Council did so. After the vote, I think we should all join forces, and I am addressing Mr Watson in particular, whom I ask, on behalf of my group, to stop his policy of aggression and unjustified slander of the other political groups and specific nationalities in Parliament. Now is a time for unity and implementing the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Mr President, you are aware, as is the whole House, that the Group of the Party of European Socialists did not vote for you. Today, however, this group has unanimously applauded your work and your speech. Allow me to make a personal comment: welcome to the club of former Presidents of the European Parliament! It is one of the most exclusive clubs in the world. – Mr President, Mr President—in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say firstly that I am conceding half of my speaking time to Mr Napolitano, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I still do not understand, after many years, what criteria are used for allocating speaking time in this Parliament, and I believe that Mr Napolitano, as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, deserved time outside of that allocated to the political groups, but this has not been the case. I would ask you to communicate this to the President of Parliament. Secondly, I would like to express the support of the Group of the Party of European Socialists for the Tsatsos–Gil-Robles report. My colleagues will analyse in detail the aspects which we consider fundamental, with greater authority than my own. What I would like to point out at this stage is that, having heard the Commissioner and being aware of the Commission’s document – which I believe fulfils its responsibility, as guardian of the Treaties, to make proposals, and which is important in terms of institutional balance – I believe there is great correlation between what is said in this report, as an assessment of the aspects which are not properly resolved, and what the Commission says. We will have to look for a way to maintain this balance, which we are all claiming to be so fundamental within the institutional triangle. I would like to make a more specific reference to the future reform of the Constitution. Commissioner Barnier has insisted that, symbolically, we must all vote on the same day. With the outstanding issues – which are the subject of an evolutionary clause, the ‘’ clause – it is true to say that it does make sense to seek solutions which allow us to resolve the problems we have. I hope that the Italian Presidency can do so. Having said this, Mr President, and having heard the President—in-Office of the Council, I am going to propose an  amendment to the Tsatsos–Gil-Robles text. With the best of intentions, the President—in-Office of the Council has told us that the Italian Presidency wishes to comply with what it promised in this Parliament, but it has also told us, very diplomatically, that in Riva del Garda it did not achieve that. I believe we must state the facts clearly. What would not be acceptable, having had the Convention, would be to hear the words ‘Time for bed, children, now we are going to discuss serious matters’. That cannot be the case. It is not acceptable from the point of view not just of transparency, but of democratic responsibility. Therefore, having also seen what was discussed in Riva del Garda – because the document we have seen does not correspond to what the Italian Presidency is saying here: that we are going to be observers on the same level as such respectable countries as Romania, Bulgaria or Turkey is not a way to give the European Parliament a very worthy position – I would propose that, in paragraph 37, the wording be changed and, rather than saying ‘Strongly welcomes the Italian Presidency's assurance’, it should say ‘Expresses its concern and discontent with the lack of compliance by the Council with the assurances expressed by the Italian Presidency to Parliament’. This corresponds to reality at this moment. The Italian Presidency has good intentions, but the road to hell is paved with good intentions. What we need to do is to ensure that our representation is worthy and corresponds to reality. I will end, Mr President, by making a proposal to the Italian Presidency, so that it can communicate it to the Council. The majority of foreign affairs ministers were members of the Convention. We are inviting the members of national parliaments who were members of the Convention to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I believe this invitation should be extended to the ministers and the Council, so that these issues may be debated in public, which is what European pubic opinion is demanding. Mr President, I should first like to say how pleased I am that a political debate has taken place in this House at last. Such a debate was launched this morning, but only four of us were present.  I should like to respond to the comment made by leader of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. This is a curious body with two souls. Mr Poettering, I would like to clarify my statement last week. Firstly, Mr Prodi, President of the current Commission, was invested and endorsed by the majority of the groups in this House. I have today reiterated that as my group and I see it, it is Mr Prodi’s duty to lead the Commission until the very last day of his mandate. It has fallen to him to steer the Commission through a period of great political importance. Secondly, in his capacity as a European citizen Mr Prodi has a right to express political opinions on the future of Europe. He cannot be denied that right.  Preventive censure must not be introduced. It would be like forbidding Cardinals of the Catholic Church to speak of God. It simply does not make sense.  Thirdly, I should like to state my personal opinion, if Mr Romano Prodi, who is both an Italian and a European citizen, decides to stand in the forthcoming elections to the European Parliament, he should then resign. I think that is pretty basic. That is what I actually stated. – Mr President, my group has drawn up this request not just in view of the development of events, but essentially in view of the fact that the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Simitis, has called an extraordinary summit, which may be held next Monday. And we believe it is very important at this moment – and this is the approach my group has taken throughout this debate and we believe it must continue – to try to achieve a united and decisive European position in order to ensure, essentially, that the war is not inevitable and in order to achieve a disarmament process – in relation to weapons of mass destruction, in the case of Iraq – which takes place under international pressure under the auspices of the United Nations. This is our objective and we believe it is important that Parliament can hold a debate so that you can speak for us at the summit next Monday. –  Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching the debate on the forthcoming European Council in Brussels with a certain amount of optimism. The President-in-Office of the Council, the Danish Prime Minister, Mr Rasmusen, when he was kind enough to invite us to the Conference of Presidents in Copenhagen, spoke of the three stages of the Danish Presidency. We knew that the Irish referendum and the elections in various Member States (Sweden, France and Germany) would have to be overcome, and now the second stage is beginning. We need to clear up a few grey areas in Brussels and reach agreements in order, as Commissioner Verheugen has said, to be able to prepare for the Copenhagen Summit in time. That is very important. First of all, I shall address the question that I believe to be the most decisive: we must not only be able to talk about negotiations and money, which is always important, but we must also be able to provide a political impetus and vision for this entire process. Before a wedding, the pre-nuptial agreement can be significant. In Hollywood, some film stars sign pre-nuptial agreements over 100 pages long. It is also important to know which house the couple will live in, and that is the job of the Convention. Our main problem in the European Union, rather than in the candidate countries, however, is managing to muster political enthusiasm and historic vision. This is the responsibility of the Commission, the Council, and also our responsibility here in Parliament. I consider this to be the most decisive factor, and I would say that this is the weakest point at the moment. We have talked about the budget, which is a summary of our policies. In my personal experience, in the process of the integration of my country – and also of Portugal – into the European Union, budgetary issues were extremely important and defined the current framework, the 1988 Brussels Summit, the MacSharry reform and the Edinburgh Summit. I believe we must start with the fact that it is good to have financial perspectives – I was the rapporteur for Parliament when the first financial perspectives were proposed – but these must not be restrictive. They must be interpreted according to a fundamental political principle: that the budget is adopted annually. My group believes that we cannot wait until 2006, because there are important questions that need to be resolved. The first, as President Prodi has said, is that the candidate countries are not net contributors. This aspect is absolutely fundamental, not only in presentation, but also as a display of solidarity. Secondly, we need to talk about 80% of the budget. The Commission has put forward a proposal, which my group considers to be of interest and which we should debate, which does not refer to changing the ceiling of the common agricultural policy, but of making this a possibility in future, and, in particular, of introducing criteria of sustainable development and solidarity, which this policy is lacking. It is therefore our responsibility to address these problems now, without waiting until 2006. The same is true of the Structural Funds, which are a sign of economic and social cohesion, not total cohesion, but an important tool for the modernisation of these countries, as they have been for others such as Ireland – the country of origin of the President – Spain – my own country – Portugal, etc. We must make the effort to consider how we can achieve better agreements that enable us to protect our interests and, at the same time, extend them to the candidate countries. That is something that cannot be put off until 2006. We need to address it today, and it is important for agreements to be reached between France and Germany at the Brussels Summit, naturally – it is not good for one country to isolate itself from the rest of the Community – but also between all the current partners. This is also an extremely important signal. Lastly, Mr President, in this case we must also talk to the candidate countries knowing that we are on the threshold of a decision that involves a shared destiny in the future. And we must also make a joint effort in Parliament to be able to adhere to a complex timetable which is an obstacle course we must overcome with a common political will. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by joining – on behalf of the Socialist Group – in the condemnation of the massive attacks in Saudi Arabia and Chechnya, and Parliament should also send its condolences to the families of all the victims of this war, particularly the civil population, and stress that we profoundly regret the fact that 14 journalists have died during the conflict, two have disappeared and American troops have bombed media organisations such as Al-Jazeera and also the Palestine hotel, which was occupied by journalists. Having heard Mr Poettering, I would like to say, on behalf of my group, that we regret even more than you that it has not been considered appropriate to produce a resolution, because we could have agreed on many points and because it is important that the European Parliament’s voice is heard. We are giving the impression that we are indifferent to what is happening and we have a shared responsibility with the other institutions of the Union. Firstly, with regard to the emergency situation, I would like to welcome the efforts the Commission is making – the Commissioner has been in Baghdad. EUR 100 million is being provided, and I would ask you please to include women in the peace negotiations and in aid, because this is a very important element if peace is to be achieved in Iraq. Furthermore, I believe we must support the restoration of basic services. The Commissioner has raised a point which I believe to be important: we must not confuse humanitarian aid with reconstruction and, above all, humanitarian aid must not be a political bargaining chip. You have the support of the Socialist Group in this regard. With regard to the reconstruction process and the debate under way in the Security Council, I would like firstly to point out that, according to international law, we are in a situation, in which there is a coalition which is acting as an occupying power in occupied territory. In accordance with the Geneva Convention and the Hague Regulations, the coalition has clear responsibilities and limits to its authority, and this must be incorporated into the current framework, because otherwise everything will depend on the power games in Washington. I remind you that the first team of American governors in Iraq has already come to an end. The confusion is increasing all the time and it is therefore important to reaffirm the role of the United Nations Security Council. We Europeans have responsibilities here. It is the case that, according to Articles 11, 12 and 13 of the Treaty, we are obliged to coordinate our positions. But it is odd that we are able to coordinate them amongst Europeans and with others, in the Middle East Quartet and even with the Arab League, but the same principle is not applied in the Security Council. Public opinion cannot understand this and furthermore Europe has serious responsibilities here. It is therefore very important that the agreement reached in Athens on 16 April is now applied, but within the framework of international law. Why? In order to establish a government belonging to the Iraqi people, which respects territorial integrity and also provides the Iraqi people with an opportunity, having finally been liberated from a despotic tyranny. We are beginning to see the disappearance of political and religious repression and the Iraqi people are being allowed to express themselves. This is an absolutely essential issue. The lifting of the embargo – as expressed in several United Nations Resolutions – must be carried out under the authority of those Resolutions. The inspectors must also return, because paradoxically the only people who have found any traces of weapons of mass destruction have been the teams of Mr Blix and Mr ElBaradei rather than the American inspectors, who are acting illegally, and it is therefore also important to intervene in this regard. I would like to reiterate, on behalf of my group, that Iraqi oil and its exploitation belongs to the Iraqi people. Oil – as we have seen too often – is a poisoned gift and there must be genuine respect for its use and the right to access to resources for the Iraqi people. Finally, Mr President, please allow me to refer to the situation in the Middle East. We cannot say that action had to be taken because 12 years had passed during which the regime of Saddam Hussein had not respected the United Nations resolutions when we have been waiting three decades for Resolution 242 to be complied with. We must support the roadmap, Mr Sharon cannot cold-shoulder the Union’s High Representative for Foreign Policy, Mr Solana, because he has met President Arafat. We must show goodwill, and above all we must defuse the most dangerous time bomb in the Middle East. And all this requires that we Europeans re-establish our unity and act together. – Mr President, I would first of all like to thank the President of the Commission, whose appearance was requested by my group on Friday morning having seen the statements he had made to the  newspaper, for having agreed to come to the appropriate place to explain his position; the European Parliament. Since then, two important things have happened: one, that a referendum has been won in Ireland – I think we should be happy about this; and the other, that the euro is remaining stable. In other words we are not on the brink of disaster. I must say that we in my group have read the comments in  carefully and we believe that the President has made a series of observations on current issues which we largely agree with. We would have preferred him to have said these things here, instead of in a newspaper, but that is what happened. The point is that we have a Pact which is not just a Stability and Growth Pact but also a Growth Pact and we have to fulfil the Stability and Growth Pact in order not to end up in the same situation as President Bush Senior, when he lost to Clinton, when he said to him: it is the economy, stupid. This is the current situation. We have a strategy, the Lisbon Strategy, and it must be applied, and to this end our economic policy must be intelligent. The Stability and Growth Pact was created 10 years ago, last century, but it must now be applied in light of new circumstances in which we have monetary union, when ten years ago we did not have it. This is the decisive factor, and it must therefore be applied with intelligence and flexibility, as the Commissioner has quite rightly explained. I cannot defend Mr Solbes more than Mr Poettering, but at least I support him on this point. There is a question which he has not dealt with and which was raised at the EPP Congress in Lisbon. It is as follows. In the end they asked themselves: whose fault is all of this? And they concluded: the Socialists, who have led us to this situation. Well, now we have promises of fiscal reforms, as if they were a lottery for everybody, on the part of the parties of the Right in Europe, and not only in the small countries, Mr Poettering. I have heard Mr Solbes talk about France and Italy; if you think France is a small country, then you are making truly revolutionary proposals. We therefore have to bring the Stability and Growth Pact up to date by insisting on growth. We must also – and there have been proposals in this regard from the President and the Commissioner today – improve an instrument which by definition is crude, if I can use the word ‘crude’ or ‘inflexible’, rather than stupid. And the Commission must present proposals which allow Parliament to carry out its duties. I have heard the President and the Commission talk about their relations with the Council and in particular Ecofin, in its euro dimension, but it would be useful if they could tell us how they believe the European Parliament should participate in the taking of the important budgetary and economic decisions. I believe that is our obligation, and we must be there. I will end, Mr President, by saying that very specific proposals have been presented to the Convention in application of the early warning mechanism representing the euro. The broad guidelines for economic policy must also have a dimension which allows Parliament to participate. It is my understanding that in the Commission the governments are turning a deaf ear to this proposal. I believe that in this regard we must support the Commission and demand more capacity for initiative. – Mr President, this proposal is based on your wise counsel, on your proposal that Parliament should organise debates that are comprehensible. And the logical thing would be, if we are holding a debate on budgetary guidelines, to also debate the broad guidelines for economic policy. However, in the current situation, it seems that the debate on the Trentin report has been squeezed in and I believe it would make much more sense to hold it on Tuesday. This is the only reason, Mr President. – Mr President, I have presented this amendment having heard the Italian Presidency of the Council and the report it has produced on the situation relating to Parliament’s representation in the Intergovernmental Conference. I believe that we cannot strongly welcome something we have not been offered, and therefore my proposal is that the following should be included: ‘Expresses its concern and discontent with the lack of compliance by the Council with the assurances expressed by the Italian Presidency to Parliament’. The rest would stay the same. I would point out that the President-in-Office of the Council has indicated his agreement with this amendment, because it may help him at the Council. –  Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you have come here today, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with the satisfaction of having done your duty, and you deserve the most sincere congratulations from my group, the Group of the European People’s Party, for having been able to take this historic step under your presidency and with your government, in which I would like to highlight in particular the work of our esteemed former colleague Mr Bertel Haarder. You made a comparison, saying that the race you have run is a long-distance race. I believe that under the Danish Presidency this has been more like a race against time, or even a one-legged race, and you have won it. I believe you deserve special congratulations for that. It is now up to us, as Members of the European Parliament, and all the members of Member State Parliaments and those in countries that are already part of an enlarged Europe, to take the next steps, and we must not underestimate the importance of dialogue with public opinion, as well as fulfilling our duties. I would reiterate President Prodi’s words, when he said that there is going to be an information campaign in which we must all participate. We are prepared to discuss the budget for this campaign immediately. I would also like to congratulate the Commission – as the negotiating body – its President, Commissioner Verheugen, and please allow me to mention also the Director-General for Enlargement, Mr Landáburu, with whom I have had the opportunity to fight against Franco’s dictatorship and for European integration. I believe he has acted seriously, using his experience, in this process. Just one question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in relation to the democratic process of integrating these countries – and I see you have incorporated the proposal made by Mr Hänsch, which was adopted by the European Parliament, that these countries might be able to take part in the 2004 elections. The question is transition. You said, having taken decisions, that you are going to consult Parliament before the end of January. Are these consultations on consumer issues or is it an interinstitutional agreement? Many issues are currently under discussion. For example, I do not know if you have decided whether, in accordance with the Treaty of Nice, there will be one or two commissioners, depending on the country, until 2005. Will this change or not? That is a question that I believe must be discussed, as well as the changes in the Commission: will there be a second Polish Commissioner for three months or not? What will happen about Members of Parliament? We will need to discuss this, but the issue is whether there will be an agreement on this point. I have just one comment to make with regard to Turkey: I believe our Turkish friends should be told that they missed a great opportunity, during the week of the Sakharov Prize, to let Mrs Leila Zana come here. Those of us who are in favour of Turkey entering the European Union continue to maintain that what is needed in Turkey is a democracy in which civil power takes precedence over military power. That is the key issue and that is the question that must be put clearly to our Turkish friends. As for Cyprus, perhaps Turkey will now have an objective interest in the ever present Mr Denktash changing his mind and finding a solution for February in order to achieve full integration of the whole island. Mr President, with regard to the Middle East you made a bold statement and I believe we must support it as we cannot agree to put the Quartet’s proposals on hold, as the United States would like, and we should also welcome the fact that the Commission has freed up funding for the Palestinian elections. I believe Europe has serious responsibilities at the present time with regard to the Middle East. Lastly, Mr President, I would also like to express my group’s deep dissatisfaction with the way in which the Council and the Commission are approaching the problem of the  disaster. There has not been equal treatment in terms of what the President mentioned concerning the German and Austrian situation and that of Central Europe, because no fund has been created; existing funds have simply been re-allocated. I can tell you that there is disappointment and resentment in my country and a problem that extends to other parts of the Union. I shall end, Mr President, by saying that now that Denmark has taken this historic step, please, move closer to us, and remove the barriers that still exist in terms of citizenship and the common currency on Denmark’s part. I am sure you will do this. –  Mr President, I notice that in today’s agenda there are five or six oral questions in a debate on media concentration, and I believe almost all of us who are due to speak are here. I have just seen that the Commission is present. If Mr Byrne is the Commissioner due to respond to this question, I propose we begin with this subject and then consider the Medina Ortega report afterwards. Perhaps that could be a reasonable solution. – Mr President, please allow me to correct Mr Poettering on some of his information. There will not be a bilateral meeting between Europe and the United States on Wednesday in Madrid, but rather a summit chaired by the President-in-Office of the Council – Mr Aznar, a political colleague of yours – which will be attended by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Kofi Annan, who is currently in Madrid, the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Ivanov, Mr Powell, Mr Piqué and Mr Solana. This summit will be dealing with a matter that this House has already voted on. We believe it is very important that everybody should be there, including, if possible, a representative of the Arab League, but that is yet to be confirmed. Therefore, the summit in Madrid on Wednesday is of particular importance. I am not going to go into the debate we are holding tomorrow, but I believe it is important and essential that Parliament can speak with a strong voice in defence of the role of Europe and try to offer a glimmer of light and a degree of hope during these tragic times. I therefore believe it would be politically timely for a resolution to arrive at the Madrid Summit alive and kicking, which is perfectly feasible. Furthermore, in its Standing Committee of 6 April, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, which is not known for its Socialist tendencies, tabled a resolution which I believe is in accordance with what we ourselves would propose. I believe and hope that we can achieve a resolution along similar lines. I am referring to something very dear to the PPE-DE Group, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO. Therefore, I insist that, in accordance with the philosophy of President Cox, who is not here at the moment, but would advocate this, it is essential to keep up with events and therefore I believe it is especially timely that we should vote on Wednesday and that the result of the vote should be known in time for Madrid. –  Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to congratulate the Greek Presidency on the courage and resolution it displayed during its second summit. In the light of recent events I fear it may yet be called upon to convene further summits. On behalf of my group, I should like to express our heartfelt condolences to the families of all the victims of this war. There must be no more victims. My group therefore believes the war must cease immediately. The United Nations must assume management of the conflict. The latter should never have been taken out of the United Nations framework.  I also deeply regret the unilateral decision taken by the President of the United States to leave this framework and start a war. I support Mr Annan. Once again, I must emphasise that the present unilateral action is in breach of the United Nations Charter and of international law. On behalf of my group I should like to further reiterate our complete opposition to the doctrine of pre-emptive attack as an instrument of foreign policy.  I would like to repeat what Mr Cook said in the House of Commons. Multilateral agreements and a world order governed by rules afford better protection to our British and European interests than unilateral instruments. From President Carter to the Pope, countless individuals around the world endorse this view. Mr Poettering quoted Mr Perle, a spokesperson for the armaments industry. Mr Perle is a shameless lobbyist. He wrote an article thanking God for the failure of the UN. Given that so many are swearing by some God’s name or taking it in vain, I should like to seize this opportunity of sending out a timely reminder. There is a fallen angel in both the Bible and the Koran. The fallen angels, who were angels of light, are named Lucifer and Iblis respectively. Their fall was caused by pride and unbridled blind arrogance. That is the very situation we are currently faced with.  Ladies and gentlemen, no war is a clean war. The doctored images presented to us conceal horror. We are today receiving pictures of that market in Baghdad. You will recall that the European Union evolved from a common market. No doubt you also recall another market, in Sarajevo, and how that was bombed. I hope your consciences are stirred. We are all involved in a conflict which is becoming increasingly horrific. Clearly, large numbers of Iraqis long for a future without Saddam Hussein’s oppressive regime. They wish to enjoy freedom and dignity. Clearly too, they do not wish to have further death and destruction inflicted on them. This action was taken unilaterally, outside the framework of the Security Council. It has resulted in disaster, because very often the local population does not perceive the troops as a liberating force. The people are determined to protect what is theirs, to defend their land. Furthermore, this region is beset by many complex problems. It is most unwise to destabilise it further, and this could impact the Middle East process. Both the President of the Commission and the President-in-Office of the Council have insisted that this crisis and future action must be dealt with within the UN framework. I could not agree more. Indeed, I have said so twice already in this House. I have, however, read today’s newspaper and apparently the management of the port of Umm Qasar has been awarded to a United States company. The latter is offering to subcontract some of the work to European companies. This flies in the face of respect for the UN. Is the European Union to be invited to do subcontract work for the UN? That is not the way forward. I believe we should make our voice heard. We must insist on humanitarian aid being administered in a civilian framework, and furthermore, within the UN framework. Aid must not be administered by any of the powers currently involved.  I should like to make a final point before I finish and leave the floor to my colleague Mr Goebbels. He will speak on the Spring Council. My point is as follows. We know the President of the United States has already estimated the cost of the war at USD 75 000 million per month. Oil prices and exchange rates are on a roller coaster. President-in-Office of the Council, I very much fear that if this state of affairs continues you will be forced to convene a further summit to assess the European and world economies. In conclusion, Mr President, we have to recognise that public opinion is riven by emotion. It is disconcerted and overwhelmingly opposed to this war. I refer to wider public opinion, not just to European public opinion. The public does not understand the urgency of this war or the reasons for it. There is a world-wide movement for peace. I have in mind Saturday’s demonstration. It falls to us to relaunch the multilateral approach to international relations. The dignity and legitimacy of the United Nations must be restored. It will then be in a position to fulfil its role as a government for the world. The European Union failed to act as one and therefore bears a share of the responsibility for this crisis. We must be able to envisage a future in which the Union can construct a foreign and security policy worthy of the name. This is essential if we are to act honourably in the interest of the future of all humankind. Mr President, further to the statement you have just made, I must point out that if I am not mistaken there are three issues arising under the same item in the order of business. Firstly, there is Mrs Stauner’s report. Next there is the decision, proposed by the Group of the European People’s Party; to request a Commission statement on the Eurostat case, with a resolution. Lastly, there is a proposal for a motion of censure tabled by part of the PPE. I am not sure if the whole PPE Group supports this proposal. It would be appropriate to check. There are therefore three issues relating to the same item in the order of business. In the interests of rationalising Parliament’s workload, it would be best to discuss these issues jointly or to delete the Eurostat case. I should like to raise another very important matter too, Mr President. Pursuant to Rule 34 of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask you to state which Treaties are applicable to consideration of a motion of censure. Currently we are working in a Parliament composed of Members representing fifteen Member States. When Parliament votes on 3 May, however, it will be composed of Members from twenty-five Member States and the enlarged Commission will be in place. I believe this is an important constitutional matter. I am not thinking only of the new Commissioners, who will be welcomed with a motion of censure. I feel strongly that it is important to deal with this matter before moving on to consider the motion of censure and vote on it. – Mr President, Mr Solana, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these are grave times in which we have to work together in order to break the infernal cycle of violence by achieving a ceasefire which creates a window of opportunity and opens the way to negotiations in order that the states in the Middle East may live together. The Europeans, for historical, cultural and even religious reasons, have an enormous responsibility which we cannot ignore. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of the European Socialist Party I propose that we send three messages. Firstly, via the High Representative for the common foreign and security policy addressed to tomorrow’s Madrid Summit. We ask the Presidency-in-Office of the Council, together with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the United States’ Secretary of State and the Russian Foreign Minister to express with one voice the need for a ceasefire and their joint willingness to send an international peace enforcement and observation force to support it. The State of Israel was founded as a result of a decision of the United Nations, a David which is an expression of a world political and moral commitment and that David must listen to us and conform to the repeated declarations of the Security Council. The second message we should send is to the Sharon Government, which must completely end its attempts to turn David into Goliath through its unilateral declaration of total war in response to the suicide attacks against the civil population by certain Palestinian elements. The solution does not lie in an escalation of operations aimed at eliminating the Palestinian Authority and its elected President, Yasser Arafat, whose confinement must end immediately, nor in the flagrant violations of international humanitarian law or the law of war in the occupied territories. In addition, the third message is a message of support for the Palestinian Authority so that it can play its role in the fight against terrorism, for which it needs resources that must not be destroyed – and we must remember that we, as the European Union, have actively contributed to these resources – and can act in the future as the core of a Palestinian State. At the same time, we also want to express our concern at the occurrences of the conflict’s spreading and polarisation that we are currently seeing throughout the world. We condemn attacks on Jewish symbols and institutions in Europe and we are also worried about the increasing tension, not just in the Arab countries, but also elsewhere in the world. We are linked to both parties by means of Association Agreements and treaties which imply reciprocal friendship and cooperation. Within this framework, we wish to express our disapproval of the Israeli Government’s refusal to accept the mediation of a mission from the European Union on 4 April and we believe that, under these circumstances, the Association Agreement must be suspended in accordance with its Article 2 until we see a clear and unequivocal sign that the Israeli Government is willing to resolve this crisis.  Furthermore, we support and advocate an arms embargo on both sides by the European Union and will ask my Group, in relation to the transnational compromise resolution we have negotiated – although we go further – to vote in favour of Paragraph 8 of that compromise resolution. Finally, Mr President, despite everything, we want to reiterate our conviction that, despite the gravity of the current situation, peace is possible. As you know, we have had a long and fruitful historic relationship with our colleagues in the Israeli Labour Party. We have publicly criticised their participation in this government, but we want to continue talking to them. Just yesterday I received a call from Simon Peres, a well-liked and respected person in this House, and we have agreed to hold a debate soon with the Labour Party in our group. I urge everybody not to cease in this effort and to use all possible opportunities for dialogue with our Israeli and Palestinian friends and partners to tell them that we are not condemned to endless violence. Our own history demonstrates this and what we have to do is support coordinated international action within the framework of the United Nations, taking advantage of the proposals of the Arab League so that Madrid may offer another glimmer of hope. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, High Representative, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, that it is a great honour to receive the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr Kofi Annan, today. My group had the honour of nominating the Secretary-General for the Sakharov Prize, and I would like to thank the other political groups for having ensured an overwhelming majority in Parliament in order to express a common will to acknowledge the difficult and heroic work of the United Nations and to encourage it to persevere in the noble cause of world peace and stability. My group does not just wish to pay tribute to Sergio Vieira de Mello and the other victims of an heroic struggle, but also to acknowledge the efforts of many United Nations officials and chiefs who are continuing their work, and I would like to mention two symbolic names, those of Mr Blix and Mr El Baradei, who have done important work in favour of peace and the reduction of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Over the last two years we have not just seen terrorist attacks which have led to the deaths of many innocent people, but also an unprecedented assault on the international institutions, in particular the UN. Therefore, Secretary-General, I would like to reaffirm the importance of solidarity and close cooperation between peoples and nations. In this regard, you have given us a lesson today on the importance of migrations, and I would say, on behalf of my group, that we thank you for this brave and committed speech because we are living in a world in which globalisation applies to capital, to services and to products; but ...  ... is not applied to people. Taking from your speech the elements which need to be carried out in the European Union, I would also like to offer you our cooperation in the work you have begun on the reform of the United Nations, with a view to ensuring that the UN, together with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the World Trade Organisation and the International Labour Organisation, can work together. I believe this is a common cause which both the European Union and the United Nations must work on. In summary, Mr President, I would also like to say that we are clearly committed to multilateralism as opposed to unilateralism, to preventive action rather than pre-emptive attacks, and that it must not be said that the United Nations is incapable: Namibia, South Africa, Mozambique, El Salvador, Haiti, Nicaragua, Cambodia, Guatemala, Kosovo, Timor, Sierra Leone, Liberia and the Congo demonstrate that the United Nations is necessary and important and is a legitimate and noble cause and that we must support its efforts. – Mr President, I must first assure you of the Socialist Group’s support for your statement. I would also like to express our support for the resolution adopted by the United Nations Security Council. The latter represents a turning point in history because, for the first time, explicit reference is made to the need to recognise a Palestinian state, as advocated by the European Union. I believe it should be emphasised that the UN, the European Union, the United Sates and Russia need to work together if we are to find a light to guide us out of the darkness of the current conflict in the Middle East. This message should go out loud and clear, Mr President of the Council, particularly because it is important for the Council of Ministers to present a united front on this matter, and support the work of our representative in the Middle East. Parliament made its views clear through the resolution adopted by an overwhelming majority in the February plenary. I believe it is now time for the Council to act likewise and agree on a common approach it could wholeheartedly support. It might then be possible to move forward and break the present infernal cycle of violence. All that remains for me to say, Mr President, is that the initiatives you proposed and which were also part of our resolution, do reflect our common desire. . –  – On behalf of my group I would like to express my total support for an early enlargement, stressing the principle of equal treatment with regard to the Copenhagen criteria. I hope that the signature of the Accession Treaty will represent the final unification of our continent, leaving behind the wars which desolated our peoples and drew up borders by force. The new and strengthened Union will be a continent with a shared destiny of peace, democracy and freedom.  – This unprecedented enlargement brings new challenges for the Union. We will need an even greater spirit of solidarity in all our common policies, and we will have to strengthen the institutional capacities of the Union. The current and future Members will have to make the greatest possible effort, replacing national egotism with Community solidarity in order to find, as the Treaties demand, a united European voice in world political fora.  – Although an agreement was reached at the last moment, I must strongly criticise the Council’s unilateral action of including budgetary figures in the Accession Treaty. This is an unprecedented action which constitutes a serious attack on the budgetary competences of our House and the Interinstitutional Agreement of 1999. – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I have raised this oral question on behalf of my group in order to bring once again to this House, and therefore to a public and transparent debate, a fundamental issue which is a constitutional one. At a time when in the Convention we are considering reforms of the Commission, the Council and all the institutions, being able to fulfil our mandate with dignity, honour and equality as European citizens is an essential issue which we have been working on for a long time. I would add something else: we must resolve this issue during this legislature, before it comes to an end, given the political importance it has. I tabled my question in the quest for greater support and consensus within the European Parliament because I believe it is necessary and I must say that my group believes that this is an issue which must be defined with the greatest possible transparency, both with regard to the constitutional aspects of the Statute and the rules which we have to lay down for ourselves. What I regret at this point is that it seems that, in seeking the greatest possible agreement, disagreements have been highlighted. I have been faced with an open and systematic accusation; this morning, in a press conference, three parliamentary group presidents have publicly accused the Socialist Group of blocking the Statute. As the President is well aware, it was I who proposed the amendment to the de Palacio report which was approved by 455 votes. It was I who proposed, and this is in the joint resolution of the Liberal Group as a recital, that a group of eminent people had to be created, and Mr Haarder is well aware of this, and I proposed its membership, beginning with Mr Ersbøl. This is what I have done on behalf of the Socialist Group. I would like those people who have criticised us – and I do not mind the election campaign being brought forward, but it should not verge on slander – to explain in this House – which is where things should be explained – what it is they have done. And I would say to Mr Watson, with the greatest of respect, that it would also be interesting – he has a golden opportunity – if he could explain why he feels surrounded by Germans. We are all equal here. I do not feel overly influenced by the Germans, it is not true. It is not true, for example, that this system of allowances has been created to compensate the Iberians. I come from a parliament in which they gave me the ticket, I had never earned more. I was faced with this system and I do not know any parliament, even those which pay most, which has renounced this system. Why do we have to have this hypocritical and cynical argument? I believe we have to seek unity and not offend our fellow Members because we have to work together to find a way to move ahead. Finally, Mr President, you are well aware that I was the president of the group which most supported the idea of you being able to maintain exploratory contacts with the Council. Now, we are in a parliament, we have to apply the parliamentary method, not the plebiscite method, and I am glad that after I raised the question, you have written to give an account of your activities, and I am also glad that you have spoken with Mr Rothley. With regard to Mr Rothley, I must say one thing; with Mr Rothley as rapporteur, the Statute is very difficult, without Mr Rothley, it is impossible and we must all be aware of this and, therefore, instead of increasing divisions and offending many members of this House, what we must do is work together and bring this Statute forward. I am grateful for the letter you have written and I have one hope, Mr President, because I believe that you also take this approach. I hope that today the Council will say that it is prepared to hold talks with us on the methods for approving the Statute. That is all I am asking of the Council today, and I am very grateful that Mr Haarder is here because he has been fighting with us for the Statute. I would like to mention one thing, and that is that the Treaty of Nice is now in force, which means majority approval, except on taxation issues, which will be decided unanimously. Today, all we have to ask is that the President-in-Office of the Council hold out his hand – not to me but to Parliament. We must do the rest through an open debate and joint work amongst us and, please, let us not increase divisions. Let us seek unity in Parliament because this is our responsibility and we cannot transfer it to others. – Mr President, what I have said to the Council and to Minister Haarder is that they have decided unilaterally on a constitutional issue for the Union without consulting Parliament and without holding discussions. President Prodi has agreed with me and has told me that he is in favour of dealing with the issue at the Interinstitutional Summit at the end of the month. I have written to the President of Parliament and I would like to know whether the Presidency-in-Office of the Council is prepared to speak to Parliament about a unilateral decision which – as he has acknowledged – leads to absurd consequences. Mr President, I shall be pleased to answer the request put to me. Firstly, in relation to the issue raised concerning the disappearance of documents, I have written to President Cox, as he requested yesterday, and I have sent a copy to all my colleagues, the Group Presidents, explaining that certain documents did indeed disappear, but thanks to the efforts of the assistants and the officials of the Groups and the committee, they were replaced before the start of the meeting.  On this point, moreover, I hope that Vice-President Podestà will give explanations to the House concerning the serious accusations he has made in writing in the ,which he has not mentioned at all until now, and this is a grave insult to Parliament.  As regards my statements, I see that Mr Poettering has noted what I said, but not what was said to me. That is, I would ask that everything be recorded. I shall give explanations about what I have said. I told Mr Tajani that he was like a basilisk – this is not an insult, it is a word whose meaning can be looked up in the dictionary – ' [be quiet, wretch]'. '' – I refer you to the dictionary of the Spanish Royal Academy of Language – describes someone who has no grace, and as far as I am concerned, he clearly is such a person.  As regards 'wild boar', there is a problem, which I accept is to do with Spanish parliamentary culture.  ‘’ has been a traditional expression in Spanish parliamentary affairs since the Second Spanish Republic. Pérez Madrigal was well known for acting as Mr Pannella is acting now – shouting to right and left. In Spanish, ‘acting the wild boar’ means doing what many of his colleagues were doing. I am sure, Mr Poettering, that since yesterday you have received no complaints from the European Association of Wild Boars concerning such a comparison. Mr President, Madam Vice-President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, in particular those of you from the ten new countries joining us. First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank you and congratulate you because you have been a worthy representative of the European Parliament during these events. I would also like to thank and congratulate the Prodi Commission and in particular Commissioner Verheugen for having pushed ahead with this task. Today we have a date with history and with our future. By means of the decisive step we took last Saturday we are taking a great and historic step forward by bringing together the majority of the landmass and population of our continent, for the first time in history, without an emperor, a king, a general or a dictator deciding to do so. This is a decision taken freely by all of us. And that is what makes the difference. We have heard the Ode to Joy by Beethoven, who was also someone who fought for freedom, and political censorship made him change the word  to , and I therefore believe that we should call it the Ode to Joy and Freedom, because it is freedom which has united all of us.  We have been able to take this step because we believe in democracy, in freedom, in respect for human rights, in governance, in the rule of law and in a secular Union which respects everybody's beliefs and philosophies. This is what has allowed us to unite in these circumstances. It is democracy that has allowed this to happen. Nor must we forget that on this continent we have lived through a twentieth century which has been the age of extremes and during part of which Nazi, fascist and communist dictatorships have predominated. First there was the liberation of Europe following the world war and then a chain reaction which has been gathering pace; little more than a week ago we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the Revolution of the Carnations in Portugal, which was a key event in terms of ending the dictatorship of Salazar; then my country joined ...  ... then we had  in Poland; then came the fall of the Berlin Wall and now we are consolidating what we have done following that event, with the entry of the ten new Members. My Greek colleagues point out to me that they also defeated a fascist dictatorship, I believe that we can all congratulate ourselves because we have had to fight to win freedom and I also hope that now, with the entry of the ten new Members we can complete this historic process and that we do not have to wait long for the Republic of Cyprus to be reunited, since this too is an essential step.  Never before in European history have so many people lived together in peace, democracy, under the rule of law and on the basis of a shared sovereignty and destiny. Europe is being reborn. This is a great challenge and a process of historic construction of the greatest importance, not only to live interdependently, but also to respond to globalisation; Europe has a great deal to contribute. We have great challenges before us; firstly, to overcome our own fears, and we must not forget that the general public does have these fears; we must work to educate and explain, pointing out that the opportunities far outweigh the costs, and that we are prepared to confront that complexity. Why? Because there is a spirit of solidarity and furthermore foundations which maintain us and fortify us through shared values. Shared values which are based on mutual tolerance and fraternity. The engagement – a long one – has come to an end, and we have wed. We now share the same house and the same future. Now we are a family with not just the same rights, but also with the same obligations, and this applies to those that were present at the outset, those of us that have joined, such as my own country and others, and those that are joining now. I believe that the best thing we could do to end this legislature and move on to this Europe of 25 Member States is to ensure the conclusion of the process of definitively approving the European Constitution which, fortunately, has been unblocked since March. I am justifiably proud to come from a country that has allowed the deadlock to be broken. I believe we should call on the Council, which is unfortunately absent today, and the Intergovernmental Conference, which you will have to address, Mr President, to fulfil its duty and its historic responsibility so that we may have a European Constitution by June. That is the next stage, which will complete this successful round of enlargement. I hold out my hand as a mark of friendship to all our new friends and colleagues joining us today. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, this summer we have seen a genuine environmental, economic and cultural disaster in Central Europe. On 14 August, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I expressed our solidarity and the need for the Commission to act, and please allow me to mention the fact that President Prodi and the Commissioners not only put their boots on and walked around in the mud, but that, furthermore, Mr Prodi accepted the invitation from Chancellor Schröder, who took action from the outset to hold that extraordinary Berlin Summit, which I believe was a strong sign of will and action. Other colleagues of mine will speak more extensively about the situation in Germany, in Austria, in the Czech Republic, in Slovakia and in Hungary. But please allow me, on behalf of the Socialist Group, firstly to express our condolences, our concern for the victims and also our sincerest thanks to all the volunteers who have taken action, not only those who come from the regions in question, but also those from many others. I have had the opportunity to see volunteers in my country from the Canary Islands, which are rather far away, who were on their way to Central Europe to lend a hand wherever necessary. This demonstrates that there is a common spirit amongst us. I believe that this is the time to point out that we must change our past behaviour. Solidarity must be expressed equally towards everybody, and that is a lesson we must learn from the Azores. We also learnt a lesson, for example, from the Greek earthquake and that is that joint action by Greeks and Turks allowed past barriers to be overcome. It is at times of difficulty that will must be shown. With regard to the decision taken by the House – I am glad that it is unanimous and that the Committee on Budgets has acted seriously – I believe that there must be decisive support. Clearly disasters cannot be planned for in the budgets, but what we can do, as we have with ECHO and as we are now going to do with the fund, is try to create a system of safeguards which allows us to act. I would like to point out, now that the Convention is under way, that the time has come to remove this absurd distinction between obligatory and non-obligatory spending. It appears that we have to pay what goes towards cows and wheat but not what goes towards disasters. I believe that this is an important political lesson. This also applies to the stability pact. The application of the stability pact can be discussed when there is a disaster, but what is not acceptable is that the stability pact is being discussed in countries which have not suffered disasters. I believe we must be very firm about this. Finally, Mr President, I believe that, in terms of our approach to sustainable development, we must be humble and respectful towards nature, which has a memory and may return to haunt us. We must act more firmly on the way towards a policy of sustainable development and, above all, of strengthening solidarity between us. Mr President, first of all, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that the first part of your speech fulfils the commitment given by the Italian Presidency to inform Parliament of what has happened during each part-session. I would like to say that those of us, myself in particular, who asked that Parliament be adequately represented, appear to have been listened to and I would like to thank the Italian Presidency for this. With regard to the first session of the Intergovernmental Conference, I must say to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council – and you will understand this given your professional experience – that you have touched our trigeminus, which is the most sensitive nerve in the body, as you are well aware. Why? Because the first thing the Intergovernmental Conference has done has been to get rid of the legislative Council, with some resistance on the part of Germany and Portugal, and that is very serious. It is very serious because we are working on the basis of shared legislative powers and the first thing the Council does is to dismantle something which is essential in a democracy: legislating in the open, in public. It appears to be an appendix to the Council and I naturally support our two representatives in the Intergovernmental Conference who vigorously opposed that outrage. Furthermore, I would say that this is not only a problem you face with us: it is also a problem you face as regards the national parliaments, because the greatest insult is to the parliaments of the Member States. I would repeat my request that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs invite all the members of the Convention from the national parliaments and present them with this problem: how can the legislative Council be dismantled in the first session of the Intergovernmental Conference. And having said that, please allow me to focus on my observations relating to the economic aspect. I will leave the task of dealing with the issue of borders to my colleague, Mrs Ana Terrón. My comments are based on one particular fact: stability is a public asset; nobody, neither people, families nor States can live beyond their means, and the policy of stability based on combating inflation is a policy in defence of the majority of society. Only property owners, and the bigger the better, can survive and even profit from inflation. Stability protects the most humble and the Stability Pact is an urgent objective, but there can be no stability without growth. At the moment the greatest danger to the European economy is not so much inflation but deflation and therefore, having lived through three years of mild recession, all the Member States must address a situation in which there are fewer resources, and they are therefore in a vicious cycle in which they have to increasingly get into debt or reduce investment costs and sometimes both things at the same time. It appears that Europe has chosen the latter route, which is the worst one. Since the end of the last decade public investments have fallen in the European Union by around 1% (in the United States this figure stands at 3%). According to the Commission’s data, investment of 1% means supplementary growth of 0.6%. We must recognise that the European States have not taken advantage of the good years. They have not carried out a policy of the ant: they have carried out a policy of the cicada and have not reduced their debt, but it is equally true that the Member States will not recover the virtuous cycle of growth if they restrict themselves to survival or maintenance investments, and if they continue to cut off the citizens’ spending power. What we must do is carry out an intelligent reform of the pact in order not to be guilty of the accusation of stupidity which has been made. Yes, Mr President, I will use the same expression; you will know that it is the only one that does not require translation into any European language: stupidity. We must be more rigorous in periods of strong growth: for example, the obligation to have a balanced budget on the basis of 3% growth or more, the obligation to use anything that exceeds the 3% growth in order to decrease debt and to leave the States in the euro zone with more flexibility for investment spending during a recession phase. What does not make any sense is to maintain a single level which does not correspond to the Union’s economic reality. Specifically, at the moment Germany and France, with a debt of around 60% of their GDP, have greater room for manoeuvre than Italy or Belgium which exceed it, which exceed 100% by a long way. In other words, we must be flexible here as well. And if we were capable of attaching new conditions – something which should be debated at the European Council – to the Stability and Growth Pact, then the second part we have all referred to would come: this formula of returning to a great network of investments in trans-European networks also supplemented by investments in technology and research. This was said ten years ago at the European Council in Essen. With enlargement our EUR 400 billion are going to become the EUR 600 billion identified by the Van Miert group with a view to 2020. Well, nothing is being done. We are moving very slowly. An analysis is made and what can be done? The President of the Commission has proposed – if I have understood correctly – that funding should increase from 10% to 30% of the projects. This is a step. What can the other be? It may be a great European loan. Why not? Our capacity for debt is intact, we have a euro zone in which 90% of transactions are carried out between the member countries. Why do we not dare to implement a relaunching policy, which no country can do individually, so that there may be results for the whole continent? Our budget approximately represents a miserly 1% of Community GDP. The United States deficit for this financial year is equivalent to 6 European Union budgets. I do not propose that we go as far as the United States with the deficit spending, but we could at least make an effort. We have the means but we do not have the will. – … And he should fit a turbo to the diesel engine. Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to express our deep concern about the current crisis relating to the Stability and Growth Pact. Mr Tremonti, as a respected legal expert, you must acknowledge that the rules cannot be ignored in this way. When the question of form is raised, we are told we need to talk about policy. Fine, let us talk about policy, but first of all, if there is a structure, if there are rules, they have to be respected. One of the gravest problems right now is that Ecofin as a whole does not have a Community culture. It did not demonstrate any sense of Community when it acted as it did in the meeting on the Stability Pact, nor when it proposed the amendments which disturb the balance of powers between the Council and Parliament, despite having no authority to make such proposals. Consequently, I think that Ecofin’s first task should be to read the Treaties and respect them. There are three fundamental issues at stake at the moment. Firstly, the present and the future of the Stability and Growth Pact. The Stability and Growth Pact was created before monetary union took place. Now that we have monetary union, we ought to revise the Pact to include the new elements. What cannot be allowed, as we have been saying for months, is for the Pact to have been breached in 2000 and a bad precedent established. What we are discussing here, although this is not a conference of forensic experts, is whether or not the Stability Pact is dead. The problem is which countries will the Pact apply to now? What about Portugal? What is happening with Ireland? Are they any different? It is therefore very important to get the Stability and Growth Pact back on the rails and to enable the Commission to make constructive proposals. The real issue is not whether the Pact is dead or not, but the fact that it is not being respected or applied, which is a much more serious matter at this time. The second question – and here I agree with Minister Tremonti who raised it with support from Parliament and with whom we successfully revived the Delors plan – is why the European economy is not a driving force even though it has the potential to be one. This is why we have been in favour of the action plan from the outset. However, in the current situation, that motor is not even starting, and that in turn is increasingly battering public confidence. I think that, aside from the need to update the Stability and Growth Pact, we also need to think about a point raised by Commissioner Solbes: economic governance. We are not calling for the Stability and Growth Pact to be included in the Constitution, but we must remember that in the Convention working group chaired by my colleague Mr Hänsch, all the economic representatives were playing very defensively – much like the Italian football team – and seeking to block any progress on economic governance in the Union. This is extremely serious. Why is it so serious? Because at the moment we do not have any stronger instruments. Compare our situation with that of the United States: we have a central bank which only looks at inflation, and a Stability and Growth Pact which is not being respected and which does not take that element of economic governance into account. Minister Tremonti talked about factoring in economic cycles. In the United States, before making a proposal to Congress, the Federal Reserve is actually required to take into account inflation, employment and economic activity. These are factors which need to be taken seriously and now is the time to raise these issues. Now is also the time to ensure that the Stability and Growth Pact will have a future. For this reason, Mr President, I think we have a responsibility to respect the Treaties and to make sure that Ecofin follows the same rules as everyone else. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I would like to thank you for your work and congratulate your team. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a date with history, with our future as Europeans. We are at the gates of the greatest enlargement we have seen. My group, the Group of the European Socialist Party, will vote to fling these gates wide-open so that we can take a great qualitative leap forward, allowing the majority of the population and the surface area of our continent to be reunited, thereby increasing its wealth and diversity. We have put the use of pre-emptive war as a pretext, and wars of conquest, which desolated our continent for centuries, behind us. We have established peace as our rule and a shared destiny as the solution and this is enshrined in a Union based on common values, respect for human rights, good governance and the rule of law. It is a secular union in which there is separation between the secular and the religious and respect for religious beliefs. The President-in-Office of the Council has said that we are going to hold this event next week in the Agora in Athens, which reflects democracy and the market – which is where we began. I would also like to remind him of our debt to the Middle East – and not just in a religious sense – the oldest legal text we know of is the Code of Hammurabi, from Mesopotamia. This date will clearly be established as a political milestone in the history of our Union, overcoming Munich and Yalta. Europe is being reborn as a geographical and political unit, fulfilling the words of Willy Brandt on German reunification  [Now what belongs together, is growing together]. I would also like to point out, as a personal memory, that 12 years ago, as President of the European Parliament, I announced the award of the Sakharov Prize to Alexander Dubcek, who was a political prisoner, and a year later he received that prize in this Parliament. And Walesa, who was a dissident, also visited Parliament a year later as President of Poland. This is the leap we have taken and now we have to complete it by ensuring that we genuinely have a shared destiny and solidarity. This is not the end of our journey but rather a beginning, and ours is an unprecedented superproject, an enormous challenge for all of us in which we have to overcome doubts, frustrations and fears, particularly at a time when there is a tremendous irony of history and great concern amongst our fellow citizens about the unilateralism of the Bush administration, which has caused great upheaval in the European Union, even though the United States has been one of the decisive elements in the creation of this Union. There are some in this House who believe we should recover our unity and repair what has been broken before enlarging. Others fear that there will be more division. I would like to say on behalf of my group that we believe, following Copenhagen, that , that we must respect our commitments. And also say to the new partners that they are not responsible for our internal quarrels, but that what we have to do is to build together with a view to the future, in a spirit of solidarity, overcoming national egotism through Community solidarity. If the President-in-Office of the Council will allow me to make a proposal, next Wednesday, 16 April, in the Agora, there will be a great ceremony with our Heads of State and Government, the fifteen current ones and the ten who are joining us; why do you not round off this ceremony with a joint European statement based on our values? That is, propose a common will on the part of all of us to deal with the future of the Iraqi people, firstly through humanitarian aid and then by ensuring their future within the framework of the United Nations. I believe that would be the icing on the cake to conclude that important ceremony. I would suggest that you say this to President Simitis, I believe it would be very important. And this would allow us to make progress with the European project, to move towards a united Europe that really works. Please allow me, Mr President, to refer to overcoming the budgetary conflict. I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, as well as the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, and all the rapporteurs who have been able to find a new approach to a problem which could have led to a very difficult situation within this House, and which could, furthermore, have dramatically altered and reduced the powers of the European Parliament. I believe that if we vote yes this week – and my group is in favour – we will achieve a stronger and more cooperative Europe, reinforcing our foundations by means of a Constitution, which will allow the tree of the old Europe to blossom once again and we will be able to guarantee peace for us and for our children and also consolidate peace throughout the world. Mr President, I must say firstly that it was I who proposed the content of that report, which was supported by a majority in the Conference of Presidents, and it deals with freedom of expression and information in the European Union – particularly in Italy, but in the European Union as a whole – and Mrs Boogerd-Quaak’s excellent report refers to the majority of countries in the European Union, including my own, and I therefore believe that it is a good piece of work which does credit to Parliament. Having said that, I would like firstly to make a political criticism, because I believe it is very positive that during this last plenary session of this legislature we should hold an in-depth political debate, and this relates to the case of filibustering which has arisen in relation to this report. You have mentioned a series of incidents which have taken place during the negotiation of the report. I can add some more information: for example, documents have disappeared in the committee, something which is entirely inexplicable. We are facing an obstacle course. And since you yourself have mentioned a letter which was written to you by Vice-President Podestà, I am aware of an article Mr Podestà has written today in the well-known Italian newspaper , in which he makes a series of serious accusations with regard to the European Parliament’s behaviour. He says – and I quote in Italian: , [the Rules of Procedure have been flouted, by allowing the debate in Parliament to run on indefinitely] and further on it says that [in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, which is dominated by the centre-left …] Well, I did not know that we were so dominant in Parliament and I do not know if Mr Poettering will agree with this. He then refers to the letter which he wrote to you and says that President Cox, in his reply, [had to admit that I was to a large extent right]. I would also like to make it clear that I believe that we in the so-called centre-left coalition have strictly observed the Rules of Procedure; we have had the patience of Job in the face of systematic manoeuvring involving blocking and filibustering. However, if we look at the issue in political terms, I accept that there are two groups in the House – and I am coming to an end, Mr President – who indulge in filibustering, because it is they who have tabled all the amendments but four, and I understand why they would defend Mr Berlusconi, who is currently the leader of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I accept that as well, but they should say so clearly, because ...  ... because I would remind you of an old Roman Law principle which said – and this was what made Rome great – that one cannot legislate for the benefit of just one person. We must legislate for all the citizens, and that is what is at stake here. And I will therefore end, Mr President ...  ... I will end with a proposal, Mr President: the so-called centre-left coalition has four amendments. You have 350. We accept that they be voted on en bloc and, if not, we accept that the President’s proposal should be voted on paragraph by paragraph. – I am speaking to ask you, as President, to protect the rights of the Members, in particular the honour of Mr Schulz.  You have made a proposal. I would ask you, as well as giving the floor to Mr Schulz, to call on Mr Berlusconi, the President-in-Office of the Council, to withdraw those comments, out of respect for the values we all share as Europeans. – Mr President, Mr High Representative, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to say first of all that we are against war: no to war and no to dictators, and that means we must work actively within a multilateral framework to eliminate weapons of mass destruction. The debate we are holding at the moment with our most important ally, the United States, revolves, rather than around the fundamental issue, around counter-productive methods and – as ex-President Clinton quite rightly said − on erratic methods. Why? Because ten years ago, when we were in a coalition with the United States in the Kuwait war, President Bush Senior said that the Iraqi people would sooner or later topple the dictator. Ten years later, we must recognise that sanctions have not weakened Saddam Hussein and that we are still dealing with the same issues in relation to weapons of mass destruction. We must therefore say that we are in favour of a clear policy of applying pressure on the basis of the Security Council’s resolutions. War is not inevitable. We must work on the basis that peace must be given a chance, but we must not be hasty and of course we must not create situations which may be entirely counter-productive. Hence our opposition to a preventive attack and our support for negotiations within the framework of international law. Mr President, a unilateral intervention, without the support of the UN, would have devastating effects throughout the Middle East, leading to more suffering, more radicalisation of Arab public opinion and would jeopardise the spirit of coalition in the fight against terrorism. And since Mr Solana is going to congratulate Mr Sharon on having won the elections in Israel, I would ask him to add something else, and that is to tell Mr Sharon to stop spurning Europe and to take account of our will for peace and cooperation.  Secondly, Iraq must comply seriously with the inspection requirements and I would like to thank the President for quickly accepting my proposal to hold the videoconference. It was very interesting. Yesterday we spoke with a European citizen who was proud to be one, Dr Blix, who asked Europe to take a more active position and who also explained to us, although he did not ask for it, that if the inspections could continue for two more months, as proposed by Mohammed ElBaradei, the Egyptian expert, results could be achieved. I believe that that should be the basis for the European course of action. Our approach should be the one the President-in-Office of the Council, Minister Papandreu, was able to outline at the General Affairs Council on Monday, in the face of the self-flagellation we always indulge in, by means of an agreement with the four member countries of the Security Council and with Bulgaria, so that there may be a European position which supports the work of the inspectors and so that those inspections may continue. I would also like to point out that Dr Blix also told us that between 1991 and 1998 the inspectors were at work. If they were working for eight years, why can they not work for two more months? Nobody understands this, and neither do they understand why President Bush is offering evidence now, two months later. Why did he not do so before? We must all work as faithful allies and with regard to the statement of Defence Secretary Rumsfeld, who spoke of the old Europe, I must say that those people in our continent who have spoken of a new Europe are the ones who have caused endless disasters in our continent. We are not in favour of a new Europe, we are building a united Europe, and that is the aim of our political action. And, Mr President, please allow me to refer to an important aspect of the issue on which I would like to hear more clarifications from the representative of the Council and the Vice-President of the Commission. It concerns the risks of humanitarian disaster, not only in Iraq but throughout the Middle East, with hundreds of thousands of displaced persons at least: who will pay for that? Do we have measures to deal with it? Has the UN considered this? This is an important issue, as is the economic situation, and not just that of Europe. The price of oil is going through the roof; it is worrying that the United States’ world map of priorities always coincides with the countries which have significant reserves of oil. This is not the way to build a future for humanity, and we must also declare ourselves clearly in favour of not having to face an economic disaster. Finally, Mr President, we have the right to know whether weapons of mass destruction really exist. To this end, we need more proof and more evidence and they will be obtained through continued work. The debate is not only on the timetable but on how to move forward in order to prevent war. And finally, Mr President, please allow me to use a quote in English from a great American, Mr Madison, who in 1792 said: – Mr President, almost 20 years after the European Parliament, elected by universal suffrage, produced a draft Constitution, the ‘Spinelli draft’, we are achieving a text for a Constitution for a European Union made up of 25 States and 480 million citizens. I believe we must welcome this historic success of the Convention, which has produced a democratic draft whose contents largely correspond to the hopes we had placed in this enterprise. I would first of all like to express my gratitude for the work done by the European Parliament’s Delegation led very competently by the two Members who have represented it in the Presidium: Mr Méndez de Vigo and Mr Hänsch, who have acted as a coherent team fighting from the front but also protecting their rear. I believe that this has added coherence and seriousness to our representation and has helped our political families from throughout the enlarged Union to be able to work and mature in this House – which is the home of democracy in Europe – and to be able to create a common doctrine which has been specifically reflected in the text. Without making a very detailed analysis and assessment – this is a job we will have to do during the summer and which will have to be carried out by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs – and in passing, Mr President, I would like to complain on behalf of my group because Mr Napolitano has not been given speaking time as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. He will speak within the speaking time allotted to the Socialist Group, but I do not believe that this is a correct way of proceeding. I would like to say on behalf of my group that we must celebrate the fact that we have a single text without options, without red cards; a text which opens doors and does not close them, and also one which is of a manageable size. I believe these are important elements on the basis of which we must work and make progress. We must defend what we have fought for tooth and nail and we must continue working; our two representatives have given a brief summary of what has been achieved. I would like to point out, in relation to the evolutionary clauses and the new date of 2009, that we must continue to work, drawing conclusions, creating doctrine and strengthening the European institutions. I would like to mention certain points which the Socialist Group sees as absolute priorities: to strengthen the social Europe and to defend Europe in terms of its economic governance, making progress in the field of taxation with regard to the internal market and majority decision-making in the field of foreign, security and defence policy; and we believe that this must also contribute to finding a better balance within the interinstitutional triangle. Our job must therefore now be to try to consolidate this Constitution as a basis for subsequent work, but we must work on the basis of what we have agreed, what has been achieved, which is an indication that we are able to act, and this is tremendously important at a time when the European Union was being portrayed as moribund and incapable of taking action. Furthermore, I believe we must welcome something which is also very positive, at a time when we have observers from the future member countries, and that is that they have participated fully in the work of the Convention before actually joining the Union. They are working shoulder to shoulder with us and playing a significant role, and this is being demonstrated in popular referendums. Over the last week we have had two significant successes in Poland and in the Czech Republic demonstrating that this is not just a market, but a shared project of coexistence, and we believe we should welcome it when so often distrust has been called for. Finally, Mr President, please allow me to comment on an important aspect, because we always talk about architecture and we must also talk about personalities, we must also support – and I would ask that this be done in Thessaloniki – the Council’s Agreement returned this week on the Statute on European Political Parties. I believe that Parliament has done significant work. We must thank the rapporteur, Mr Jo Leinen, for the great work he has done. It is clear that having protagonists who genuinely demonstrate that we are capable of organising ourselves is a fundamental element of European construction. And finally, Mr President, I would like to ask you on behalf of my group, when you go to the Thessaloniki Summit, to express the clear will of the whole House that the text which has been produced openly and democratically be respected, and also to say, on our behalf, that we want to be properly represented in the work of the Intergovernmental Conference; not just making use of previous experiences but with a representation which is in line with our participation and our dignity. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would also like to express our most heartfelt and sincere condolences at the death of the United Nations special envoy, Sérgio Vieira de Mello, as well as the deaths, as the President said yesterday, of this Parliament’s collaborators and members of families of our officials, and also to the families of all those who have lost their lives. We are facing a situation in which the devastating fire which destroyed the UN headquarters in Baghdad and also the murder by means of car bombs of the Shi’ite religious leader, Mohamed Baquer al Hakim, are part of a terrorist fight, but also of something which could be compared to a resistance and, at a time when everything that happened before the war is being reconsidered, we must be aware that what is required in Iraq is not more besieged troops, but to seek a timetable for the country to be reconstructed, and reconstructed, furthermore, with the involvement of the Iraqis. It is true that we do not have to return to the past, but there are certain principles that we believe still to be valid, and the first is the defence of multilateralism above all else in today’s world, and also our commitment. In this regard, what is becoming increasingly clear is that the doctrine of pre-emptive attack is a doctrine which we questioned and which has been shown to be entirely useless in terms of resolving the problems of Saddam Hussein’s tyranny. The Bush administration’s lack of preparation for dealing with the post-war situation is surprising. Where is Secretary of State Powell’s exit strategy? Our question in the European Union, and I say this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the eve of the informal meeting to be held next weekend, should be how we can act jointly as the European Union, not by means of generic appeals, but of commitments. There is an initial point which has been clear from the outset and which has yet to be fulfilled, and that is that the four European states on the Security Council must act jointly, and that must be achieved. Until that happens we will be divided and it is important that we take that step because, as well as our international commitments, we have much at stake in the resolution of this crisis. Like Commissioner Patten and the President-in-Office of the Council, I welcome the humanitarian efforts being made by ECHO. It is very important for the Iraqis and also to demonstrate our commitment, but, in any event, what is being considered – and what we Europeans must resolve – is the approach to the future. This problem of the so-called chain of command, particularly in a situation in which the Budget Office of the United States Congress says that they cannot run to the presence of troops beyond March 2004, and also at a time when the US administration is presenting a new resolution to the Security Council. The issue is very clear: we cannot ask for supplementary efforts while maintaining the current situation of occupying forces with a chain of command essentially led by one country. If we believe in multilateralism, if we believe in a serious commitment on the part of the European Union to the United Nations and the international community, we must propose sharing responsibilities, replacing the occupation approach with one of returning sovereignty to the Iraqis. And this requires a very clear and precise timetable and also requires a joint effort involving us Europeans and, also in a very direct way, the Arab countries, in order to achieve something which erases the image of an unacceptable form of neocolonialism. I therefore believe, Mr President, that it is positive that we are going to the conference of donors – we must change the current thinking according to which the booty is being distributed amongst the friends of the occupiers – and we must be able to respond as the European Union. I hope that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy will prepare a recommendation which we can vote for unanimously, or at least by a majority, during the second September part-session. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, above all as a person from Madrid and speaking on behalf of my fellow countrymen in this House, please allow me to express my gratitude for the expressions of support, solidarity and condolences received not only from Europe but from the whole world. I would like expressly to address President Cox, because his institutional declaration on behalf of Parliament had an enormous impact in Madrid and in Spain and was a match for the dramatic circumstances we are living through. We have shown that we are building Europe through the minutes of silence all Europeans held following the tragic events in Madrid. If the  – who, unfortunately, shares with me and with others a long experience of fighting terrorism – will allow me, I would like, as well as expressing gratitude for these gestures – and this applies to both sides of the Atlantic – to say that we must not confuse stoicism and resistance with cowardice and appeasement; that terrorism must not only be fought with tanks, planes and invasions; it must be fought with dignity, with resistance and also with the necessary coordination of intelligence services and with legislation such as that we have been trying to create in the European Union since 11 September. In this regard, I must say to the Council that Parliament worked extremely quickly and that the Council, in this case, has taken a step forward with the appointment of Mr De Vries – and I agree with Mr Poettering’s criticisms with regard to the circumstances of this appointment – but it is notable that, at the moment, five Community countries have yet to transpose the arrest warrant into their national legislation and that we still have problems in terms of the application, specifically, of measures to combat money-laundering. This demonstrates that we are not working seriously to combat terrorism and that we have to take very important steps, because we feel solidarity but we are all threatened. Having said this, Mr President, please allow me to move on to the second issue, which is the Constitution. I believe we should welcome the step forward taken by the Irish Presidency and I believe that the announcement of the candidate to the Presidency of the Spanish Government, Mr Zapatero, has been a significant step forward in terms of unblocking this situation. He has stated that the Spanish, the Government of Spain, believe we must be back in Europe and, furthermore, taking the approach which governments of my political colour have always followed. In relation to this point I would like to point out, on the one hand, something which is very important: qualified majority and codecision, which are essential issues in terms of European democracy. Furthermore, I would like to address the President of the Commission and say that the circumstances in which he finds himself must lead us to reflect on an important issue, which is the role of the Commission. Because he has very good Commissioners, President Prodi is at risk of almost always being ‘on the raft of Medusa’ at the end of the term of office. We already have at least three or four Commissioners who are returning to their countries – which demonstrates that there is life after the European Union – but this is raising a serious problem: we cannot continue with a situation in which a Commissioner is in office for just ten months. That is not sustainable. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Greek Commissioner, Mr Dimas – and I do not believe this is his responsibility – has spoken in plenary before moving on to the hearing in the relevant committee. We must all try to take care to respect the way things are done, that is essential in a democracy. With regard to the Constitution, Mr President, I would also like to thank the former Mayor of Rome, Mr Rutelli, for the gesture of solidarity and dignity he has shown in proposing an amendment – which I hope will be approved today in Parliament – which gives this treaty we must approve, the European Constitution, the title of ‘Constitution of Madrid’. I believe this is a gesture we can all be proud of and naturally I intend to support it. Finally, with regard to the important issue of Cyprus, I would like on behalf of our group to reiterate our unconditional support for the efforts being made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations to find a solution to the issue of Cyprus and by doing so to help the enlargement process to be successful. I believe we must call on both parties to take this historic opportunity and to unify a country which has been divided for 40 years, thereby removing the last remaining wall in Europe. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my group has tabled this question on media concentration and I must say I am very happy that the initiative has spread throughout the House, because we consider that this is not a single-party or single-group issue, but a concern over a matter of constitutional importance to the Union. We did this because, ten years ago, the Commission put forward a Green Paper on pluralism and the internal market, and proposed – and even drew up – a preliminary draft directive to harmonise national legislation on media ownership. Since then, nothing has happened, and the Commission, which has the monopoly on initiative, should also show that it deserves this right. Many things have happened over the past ten years. Significant technological progress has been made – the Internet over written media, cable, satellite television, digital technology – which have transformed the landscape. A concentration process has also taken place which goes beyond our borders and means that certain names have spread and now represent the media throughout Europe, such as Murdoch and Berlusconi. Others have fallen by the wayside, such as Messier and Kirsch, and others are arriving, such as Bloomberg. We must also take account of the developments that are taking place in the United States, where the federal authorities are making changes in order to increase US technological capacity. In any event, however, Mr President, my group thinks this is above all a democratic issue, because it refers to one of the bases of the system we live in, namely the protection of freedom of speech, which is one of the cornerstones of a democratic society. I am not only referring to freedom of speech as we politicians defend it, but also to freedom of speech for all citizens and also for workers in the press and the media, because it does not make sense for us always to advocate greater democracy for workers in other sectors but not in this one. This should also be extended to the candidate countries, where concern is spreading over the loss of the national character of the media. Therefore, Commissioner, allow me to play devil’s advocate. I said that no progress had been made in ten years. Why has no progress been made? It would be interesting to analyse the matter. Is it because it is very complicated? European construction has always been a challenge and what I would therefore say is that if the directive was necessary, and it was necessary to address this issue, in 1992, it is all the more necessary now. Secondly – and this is another of the questions we posed – it could be considered that the legal basis is insufficient. Ten years ago, however, it would appear that it was sufficient. It would be interesting if the Commission were to explain this to us, or otherwise tell us whether it would be appropriate, for example, for this issue to be considered as a matter of fundamental rights in the Commission proposal to the Convention. Lastly, Mr President, we are aware that this is what is known as a cross-cutting issue. I must say that I am very happy that it is the Commissioner responsible for the protection of consumer rights and health who is to respond to this question, because we are always told that this issue concerns the internal market or competition. It is more than that. It concerns competition, the internal market, culture and fundamental rights. There were four Commissioners I was thinking might appear, and it was a pleasant surprise to see Mr Byrne, who also has to defend us as consumers against this uncontrolled invasion not only of audiovisual messages, which are frequently subliminal, but also against uncontrolled advertising and the monopoly in the field of advertising. I therefore hope that today’s debate, in which all the parliamentary groups are participating and showing interest, will be a step forward, breaking this ten-year silence and allowing the Commission to exercise its monopoly on initiatives in this fundamental area responsibly. – Mr President, I thank you for proposing that we deal with the Eurostat affair next Thursday, as well as the flax case, which is also under discussion in the Committee on Budgetary Control, and is attracting public attention. In relation to Mrs Frassoni’s point, I think that, since the members of my political family are in Amsterdam and will be continuing their work in Brussels, we could consult them to gain a fuller knowledge of the facts, and then discuss the issue at Thursday’s Conference of Presidents, when we could also repeat our request to the Convention President. I feel that we should debate this on Thursday rather than take a decision at this precise moment. –  Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Haarder, I was going to congratulate you on your application of the Spartan rules of European Parliament terseness as a representative of the Council, but you have taken them to the extreme by omitting to tell us what happened in Elsinore. Allow me, therefore, to ask you what Mr Patten asked the Members of this Parliament: is the Council unanimous? Do you agree with the account of the Elsinore meeting given by the Vice-President of the Commission? These questions are very important for this debate. I say this because we have observed a verbal escalation on the part of the President of the United States over the summer, which, on this highly sensitive subject, comprises obvious risks. I think we need to distinguish between two subjects: one is our judgment of Saddam Hussein’s regime in Iraq. There is no defence for this cruel, tyrannical dictatorship, which does not hesitate to use genocide against its own people, through the suppression of both individuals and groups. We must also, however, take account of something else. You mentioned long-term sanctions. These are counterproductive. Similarly, we must take into account that we in Europe have managed to overcome the nationalism that did us so much harm in the past. Here, too, President Mitterrand used to say that nationalism is war. We Europeans have overcome it, but the Arab world is in a different cultural dimension, and nationalist sentiment, pride and confrontation, where necessary, make sense. We must therefore pay close attention to what President Mubarak said, which is that unilateral intervention without the support of the United Nations would certainly have a devastating effect throughout the Middle East. Our progress in resolving the conflict is therefore extremely important and there I believe the Danish Presidency has made an important proposal with regard to the creation of the Palestinian State. It would be useful if the Presidency explained this to us. We must take this into careful consideration if we are to avoid being accused of applying double standards in this situation. With regard to the philosophy of the current American Government, I believe that Bush junior should pay greater attention to what his father did 10 years ago, for one reason: President Bush senior achieved a very broad coalition and acted in accordance with the United Nations mandate. I am not going to talk about the debate underway in the United States, but it is odd, and it has already been said, that here civilians seem for the first time to be launching a military coup against the military forces, since those who have had military responsibilities, including in this field, are the most cautious when it comes to dealing with this issue. Let us hope that all this remains a purely verbal escalation. With regard to our relations with the United States, I think it would be useful for President Bush to come here, but we must also talk to the US Congress. About this, about the International Criminal Court and compliance with the application of WTO Panel decisions and resolutions on such important subjects as the Foreign Sales Act. Although these are not the subjects of today’s debate, it is important for us to talk to the US Congress, as our interlocutor. On the subject of Iraq – and I am anxious to hear your explanations – my group endorse the position voted by Parliament on 16 May 2002, four days before the Council adopted it. We think that peace and stability in the region, in a region as fraught as the Middle East, can only be ensured within the framework of the United Nations. I hope your explanation on the position reached at Elsinore will be along these lines. We think it is very important to maintain humanitarian aid and we hope that the United Nations, under the leadership of Kofi Annan, will be able to make Iraq comply with its international agreements and allow inspectors back into the country. We believe this is the best way forward. () – Mr President, I would like to make a proposal to the Liberal Group that they withdraw this proposal and that the whole House should ask the President to make a statement on its behalf, addressed to the speakers of both Houses of the US Congress, expressing our pleasure at the decision of the Governor of Illinois. The reason is very simple: in Europe we are abolitionists and this is an issue which is even proposed as one of the Copenhagen conditions. Our colleagues in the US Congress are aware of our position, and it would be very difficult for my group to vote against the Liberal Group’s proposal for procedural reasons, since we agree with it. We believe it would be more forceful and more helpful to the abolitionist campaign in the United States if we were to express our complete agreement and support for this decision by means of a statement by the President than to invoke urgency, which may seem somewhat polemical. Since we are in complete agreement, we could maintain the urgency and, at the same time, send a constructive and positive message to the US Congress, which is a partner of ours. – Mr President, I have just become aware of a communication from the services of the sitting which tells Members – and it appears that it was announced at midnight last night – that, in relation to the Boogerd-Quaak report, on freedom of expression and information, in view of the large number of requests for roll-call votes, separate votes and split votes, the vote cannot take place today. You will remember, Mr President, that you and I spoke on the telephone last night at 10.30 p.m., and that I expressed my concern about all the incidents surrounding this case. I really must say now that this decision, taken by I do not know whom – and we should know this and whether you support this decision – goes against all the practices followed in this House. My group, and I do not know about the others, has not been consulted and I would request that at the beginning of the vote at 12 noon, we vote on including this item once again in the vote. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, Taoiseach, , which according to my poor Gaelic means ‘a hundred thousand welcomes’: you are more generous than the Spanish, who say  in the plural. I would like to welcome the arrival of the Irish Presidency, because fate and the timetable have placed you right at the European Union’s important political crossroads. It was you who began the process – while I was President of the European Parliament – in Dublin, in March 1990, which led to Maastricht, you played a decisive role as the Presidency in relation to the Stability Pact and now you have an enormous responsibility. As well as participating in the Conference of Presidents, in December, the Bureau of my group last week visited Dublin and we had the opportunity to hold a full debate with the and the Irish Government; I would like to say, on behalf of my group that we finally have a reliable, experienced and serious interlocutor. Following what we have just experienced – a Presidency full of political extravagances and boasting in the media – I believe this is a very significant step forward. We can have faith in you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I personally went to ask you to support us in the Convention – you are not from my political family – but you supported us in this challenge from the outset. As well as having experience – since being negotiator of the Single Act and participant in the subsequent reforms of the Treaties – you know what you are talking about and have demonstrated your seriousness. With regard to the Constitution, I would like to note, firstly, the decisive attitude of the Irish Presidency, a prudent but firm attitude – , as the Latins said, (we must press forward slowly and prudently) – and I hope that you can present us with proposals in March. I do not want to enter into controversial territory, I believe that Parliament’s position has also been prudent, firm and serious and I hope that with the Irish Presidency we manage to unravel this extremely important issue. Because a Constitution is absolutely essential to us if we are to consolidate an enlarged Europe and make it work in a democratic manner. I have taken good note, Mr President, of the ’s comments on the Members’ Statute, which my group sees as a question of constitutional dignity. The second important challenge is economic. The President has talked about an issue which is very important, and in relation to which Ireland offers an example to the current Union and to the enlarged Union, which is the implementation of the Lisbon strategy. In other words, achieving, as we Socialists believe, full employment, gender equality – I would like to welcome the fact that the Irish Government has been the first to appoint a female Ambassador to Coreper, thereby entering into the most sexist realm of the Union, I congratulate it – social cohesion and technological development. You can also set a good example in terms of solidarity, because we are now going to begin to renegotiate the financial perspectives, because ultimately, if we are going to get married we must also talk about the dowry and the marriage settlements, and that is where we are going to see solidarity. In this regard, I would like to say, Mr President, that we naturally support the proposals from the Commission which at least maintain the current effort. We cannot set many more objectives while providing fewer resources and it is not acceptable for one or several governments to tell us that in order to do many more things we must provide much fewer resources. We must respect the work of the Commission and its responsibility, and I hope that it makes proposals as soon as possible, and that the Irish Presidency can interpret them. We must also provide a future for the Stability and Growth Pact. With regard to international policy, I would like to stress two elements: one is the President-in-Office of the Council’s insistence on the value of human rights at world level and the importance of Kofi Annan’s visit, because it is an affirmation of Europe's attachment to multilateralism. I believe that the Irish Presidency also has the capacity and experience to take this forward. Finally, Mr President, an important issue, since we are in an election campaign and my distinguished colleague, Mr Poettering, has raised the issue. I believe that the important thing, from the point of view of the European Parliament and democracy in Europe, is that the Irish Presidency applies the Simitis-Cox Agreement to the letter, taking the form of an exchange of letters, according to which the Council will have to propose the candidate to the Presidency of the Commission after the European elections. As far as that we are all in agreement and I hope that the Irish Presidency will comply with it. With regard to the European elections, the issue is open, nobody has won them and I would like to ask my distinguished colleague, the chairman of the technical group of European conservatives, to explain to me what you have in common with the British Conservatives in relation to Europe. There are no majorities here. Majorities, in European democratic systems, when there are no absolute majorities, are created on the basis of programme agreements. I accept that you advocate a conservative programme, and we advocate a progressive programme, but everything is open and we are all going to win the elections, or at least we will also be winners. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a grave hour at which we must work even harder to break the infernal spiral of violence in the Middle East. Although Sheikh Ahmed Yassin was not one of our best friends, his assassination is a clear and flagrant violation of international law. They could have arrested him and tried him. I would also point out that we have created an International Criminal Court which must have a role to play, although it is not supported by some States, including Israel. We roundly condemn the assassination of the Hamas leader and other Palestinians, on the direct orders of a government, the government of Israel. We also roundly condemn the murders and terrorist acts aimed against the civilian populations of both parties to the conflict and I believe we must appeal to the Palestinians not to respond with a murderous increase in terrorist acts and more bloodshed. This assassination has already had very grave consequences, including the suspension of the Arab League Summit. In this regard, I would like to express my agreement with the severe judgment of Shimon Peres in the Knesset when he said that this action would bring even more serious consequences. There must therefore be an end to this policy of continuing to build the wall within the occupied territories, of ordering extra-judicial executions and, furthermore, there must be a withdrawal from Gaza, to which the current Israeli Government has clearly committed itself. I would like to say on behalf of my group that the repeated violations of human rights, non-compliance with the latest United Nations resolutions on the part of the Israeli Government and, above all, Ariel Sharon’s insistence on renewing executions outside the framework of international law, will leave us with no other option than to reiterate the positions adopted by this House in its Resolution of 10 April 2002 and to call on the Commission and the Council to strictly apply the second article of our Association Agreement. We do not want to go that far, but we believe that we must issue a solemn and severe warning. In this regard, I would like to make three requests: the first is to urge Israeli civil society, that vibrant Israeli society, and all its political parties, while defending its right to its own security, to demand that its government act in accordance with international law. Secondly, I would call on the Presidency-in-Office of the Council to urge those Member States of the European Union which sit on the United Nations Security Council to immediately present a proposal to establish an international intervention force on the 1967 borders, with the mandate of protecting both sides. Thirdly, that the Commission continue with its aid, with the European Union’s aid, to assist the Palestinian National Authority to be strengthened and reformed, because a strong interlocutor is required if we are to argue that there must be a Palestinian State. I believe that the whole of this process must come within the framework of the proposals being made to resolve the problem of the Middle East. It is clear that in order to resolve such a bitter and profound conflict, it is better to propose peace than to begin new wars and increase the cycle of violence, above all in a situation in which the stability of those regimes which could contribute to supporting a process of reform is being broken. I therefore believe that we must restart and reinforce a process in which the European Union, the United States – which also has a serious responsibility – the Arab League and all the countries of the region can continue along the lines of the statement on a common future for the Middle East recently proposed by the German Foreign Affairs Minister, Mr Fischer, and in which the European Union, the region’s main partner, as the Commissioner has said quite rightly, could contribute many elements in relation to peace treaties, security, arms control, disarmament, respect for human rights and democracy and economic cooperation. I will end, Mr President, by saying that the European Parliament has done its bit with the creation, at last, of the Athens Parliamentary Assembly, and we have a duty, not only political but also moral, to continue the European Union's efforts in line with the Barcelona process in order to overcome such a bitter and profound crisis which calls on us to show political, economic and moral responsibility. – Mr President, a complaint and three messages. The complaint is that we are experts in devaluing important debates. This is the most important debate in terms of the European Parliament’s work over the next year and we are dealing with it as if it were a question of procedure and a rubber-stamping debate. I believe that this is absurd and things should not be done in this way. As for the messages; firstly, I would address the Commission. Mr President of the Commission, in December we criticised you, but now we must welcome the Commission’s efforts and I am quite happy to say that the Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, has actively contributed to our reaching an agreement which makes it possible for there to be a legislative programme and a work programme. Please carry on in this way. Specifically, you have asked us to support you in relation to having more civil servants and more resources in order to deal with enlargement. I would remind you that Parliament already indicated in Agenda 2000 that enlargement could not take place without amending the forecasts for 2000. You have added Afghanistan and other priorities. The Council should be hearing this because it is the Council which is most intransigent. No representative of the Council is present. I have noticed that Mr Poettering, in a display of generosity, has not applied the Poettering doctrine; I imagine that if the Secretary of State comes, he will apply it; he will say that it should be a Minister. But, in any event, it is important that the Council should also hear this message from the Commission. You have our support. Mr President, I am not going to go into detail on each of the issues because they are all very important and there is a degree of convergence. I will make a final point. In relation to the Convention, we are in agreement; I also welcome the fact that you said it was a joint initiative of Parliament and the Commission. This morning I read some headlines in a prominent Italian newspaper which said that it had been you alone. I am delighted that you have countered what the Italian press has said by pointing out that it has been a joint effort. Mr President, Parliament wanted something like the Convention before the Charter of Fundamental Rights. It wanted it afterwards and it wants it now. I believe this is very important. Mr President of the Commission, you are the guardians of the Treaties, and my specific question is, are you prepared to exercise your powers of initiative in the Convention in order to preserve and strengthen the Community method? –  Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my group would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council to convey a message to the Spring Summit on the basis of the resolution that we adopted in January in Parliament and which remains fully in force. We said ‘no’ three times: ‘no’ to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, ‘no’ to tyrants and dictators like Saddam Hussein and ‘no’ to unilateralism. We also said ‘yes’ three times: ‘yes’ to the UN and multilateralism, ‘yes’ to disarmament and ‘yes’ to democracy. On the basis of these observations, we feel that politics and diplomacy must continue to be given precedence over the use of preventive violence, which will only lead to more fanaticism and polarisation. Last Friday, in the Security Council, Mr Blix and Mr ElBaradei presented an account of the progress made on the inspections and on the efforts to disarm Iraq. Their report confirmed that progress has been made, including, where ballistic weapons are concerned, the gradual destruction of  missiles and others. Although he has done so reluctantly – ‘’, as the French say – Saddam Hussein must allow the inspection work to go ahead. We also say that we must pursue a clear policy of inspection backed up by pressure, as stated in Security Council Resolution 1441. We must continue working on this basis, because war can be avoided and a peaceful solution is still possible. Jimmy Carter, winner of the Nobel Peace prize, has written that, where Iraq is concerned, alternatives to war clearly exist and that a war would be unwarranted. The authoritative voice of the former US President joins the multitude of voices that, in a way that is unprecedented in history, continue to call throughout the world for a massive unilateral attack on Iraq to be totally rejected. We are entitled to ask ourselves what we would gain from waging a preventive war, especially given the US war plan to drop, as they have said they would, around 3 000 bombs, including ‘the mother of all bombs’. At the outset of a potential invasion, however precise the operation is, massive collateral damage will ensue. This means that the Iraqi people will be punished twice; first there is the punishment of living in a dictatorship and then there would be the punishment of the massive destruction of the civilian population, unleashing a torrent of death and destruction on a population half of which is under fifteen years old and which has a per capita income similar to that of the Palestinians. Incidentally, Mr President, it is extremely important that the European Union does not allow the roadmap for the Israeli-Palestinian peace process to be put on hold: we must hope that this process is reopened.  Our group feels that the approach we should adopt is to continue applying Resolution 1441, within the framework of the law and of international law. In our view, a preventive war neither guarantees world security nor complies with international law. In fact, it will put us into the hands of those who truly advocate the clash of civilisations and an attack on this basis would give an excellent boost to international terrorism. Preventive war as an instrument of defence policy does not fit in with our community of shared values, which is founded on mutual respect between nations and peoples, and such a war unequivocally breaches the principle of multilateralism and current international law, as upheld by the United Nations, which was created in San Francisco in 1945 – fundamentally due to the efforts of the United States, it should be remembered. Like Kofi Annan, we reiterate that any unilateral action would breach the United Nations Charter. The international community’s ambition to ensure world security must be based on preventive policies, not on preventive attacks. We must be more ambitious and more decisive if we are to resolve the causes of inequality, violence and poverty. I wonder, as we all do, what the consequences of a rapid military victory would be. What plan is proposed for addressing the extremely complex problems faced by the region? Are we attempting to achieve the fast-track democratisation of a nation – mapped out on the drawing board after the First World War, composed of Sunnis, Shiites, Kurds and Turkmen – or are we attempting to establish a neo-colonial proconsulship, which can only be sustained by the force of these weapons? I recommend that the White House reads the observations of the British General Maude, who entered Baghdad in 1918, and read to the Iraqis a letter in the style of the Three Kings, who also apparently – according to the Gospels – came from Babylon. This letter promised peace, happiness and democracy in six months. Six months later, there was war in Baghdad. We must bear this in mind and learn the lessons of history. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come, especially for Europe, to transcend our divisions. This is our message, which I repeat on behalf of my group. We must be guided by solidarity and by our commitments to one another, as laid down in the Treaties. These are obligations that are binding on all our States and on all our citizens. We therefore require the Spring Summit, to be held next week, to make all necessary efforts to create a united European voice, as the Treaties stipulate. Once they have signed a joint communiqué, each country cannot then pursue its own approach and there can be no repetition of the farce witnessed in the Security Council. All we need to do is take a blackboard to the summit, of the type used in schools, and explain that, if we had four votes plus one, the Europeans would have a decision. Why? Because we cannot, as a result of our division – and I am referring now to countries on both sides – be putting terrible pressure on Latin-Americans or Africans to get us out of the mess, because they too have their dignity and it is unacceptable to wring votes out of people under duress, with an attitude that is interpreted in those countries as totally neo-colonialist. We therefore need, and this is a very basic equation that all Heads of Government could understand …  … we need our votes, plus that of Bulgaria. This would change matters, and, furthermore, Mr President – and with this I shall conclude – would make the Security Council even more relevant, and not irrelevant as the US Secretary of State for Defence, or for War, Mr Rumsfeld, claims. What makes the UN irrelevant is saying that we will be going to war whatever happens. We must state, and this is one of the European Union’s major responsibilities, that in the face of preventive and unilateral action, international law must be made to prevail. – Mr President, we are in a particularly delicate situation because a minute can last forever and events are taking place which allow us to remain hopeful that the resolution approved by a majority of Parliament in January – not December – will remain valid. I am not going to speculate about what may happen in the Security Council. We have a debate with the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Papandreou, on Wednesday morning and I believe that, in these circumstances, Parliament is perfectly able to reconsider the issue of the resolution at this time. We still have time and this seems much more reasonable than adopting a closed position at the moment. –  Mr President, given the threat of invasion, this is no laughing matter. We need to address it in association with the Commission and the Council, bearing in mind that the fifteen Member States have ratified the Treaty on the International Criminal Court. This matter therefore merits serious treatment and my group would also like to call for this matter to be discussed at the next plenary in July, together with the respective statements by the Council and the Commission. – Mr President, Mr President—in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the President—in-Office of the Council on the Brussels Summit offers us – to put it in artistic terms – a sketch, an outline in chiaroscuro, because a very important challenge for the whole of Europe is being faced, which is to draw up the Constitution and also to organise our territory. It makes good sense, therefore, at the same time as the Constitution, to talk about the networks of arteries and nerves – the infrastructure networks – which give structure to something which is more than just a market: a project aimed at sharing our lives. With regard to the Intergovernmental Conference, I must express my group’s concern, because it gives the impression that it is producing a litany, a repetition of positions, and is not getting down to solving problems. I must say that we are very concerned about the fact that the first decision to be made – with the opposition of the representatives of Parliament – has been to remove the Legislative Council. This is very important, because we are in a Parliament and, having achieved shared legislative power for the first time, the Conference’s first decision has been to eliminate the possibility of legislating jointly with us. I would therefore ask that this mistaken decision be reconsidered. With regard to the voting system, we have three problems which must be resolved jointly: the composition of the Commission, the Presidency of the Council and the voting system. In this regard, I must say that, for our part, on the basis that our thinking involves how to make decisions together – and not how to block them – we support the system of double majority, as proposed by the Convention. I would draw attention to an aspect which is important to Parliament: do not use Parliamentary seats as jokers for concluding your negotiations. This is a much more serious issue. With regard to the draft Constitution, I would also like to point out that the economic issue demonstrates the insufficiency of an important matter: the regulation of economic governance. This is a very important problem in terms of price stability and also in terms of how we take coherent decisions, not only on monetary policy but also on economic policy. Finally, the issue of revising the Constitution is essential since a Constitution cannot be closed completely. That would make it completely useless. With regard to Guantánamo – on which we held a hearing with other political groups in Parliament in order to debate the issue – I must say that at the moment we have European citizenship in the Constitution. However, in accordance with the Geneva Convention, it is the governments of the Member States which have to defend the European citizens. I would ask you to urge the governments to take on their responsibilities. With regard to the economy, what you have done has been basically to rescue the Delors Plan – ten years later – to overcome the Ecofin Council's veto – which has been blocking this plan – and now you are proposing a series of actions which would really make sense, including the launch of a European loan, because here there is talk of how well the European Investment Bank can do it, but we will have to see whether private capital – of which there is plenty – is offered. This is an important issue which has not been clarified. I must say, Mr President—in-Office of the Council, that with the cardinal’s language you have used, what you are proposing are recommendations to the national governments. It is not the European Parliament which is holding up the European patent. We are not holding up the transposition of regulations: it is the ministers and their governments who have to obey you. It is not for you to give advice, but to order your own governments to implement the policies you decide on. This is truly notable because it is a kind of litany which is repeated systematically. With regard to employment, we eagerly await the Koch report and it makes sense to talk about the issue which was launched under the Swedish Presidency of the European demographic autumn in relation to pensions and immigration. On immigration and the decisions of the European Council in Thessaloniki, I would like to say to you, Mr President, given that Europe is secular and that European values are not the monopoly of any single religion – for the first time in history, fortunately – that we share in the regrets and condolences over what is happening. I must also say that in your government there are people who are doing positive work – and we are quite happy to recognise it: Mr Pisanu is demonstrating serious political responsibility in the face of absolutely intolerable and xenophobic attitudes on the part of other members of your government. Mr Pisanu is taking the same approach as another Italian Interior Minister – Mr Napolitano – who was the person who initiated the policy of agreements with countries from which immigrants originate, a policy which should be developed, and I do not believe it is sufficient to talk about the Borders Agency, we should talk about co-development and quotas, and you must reach an agreement on this. This is the approach which really makes sense for the future. Finally, Mr President, as well as our group’s belief in the importance of the step forward in terms of European defence, in relation to external relations I would like to say that my group welcomes and supports the decision of this Parliament’s Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy to award the Sakharov Prize to Kofi Annan, to the United Nations staff who have died and also in memory of Sergio Vieira de Mello. I understand, Mr President, from what I heard in the United Nations last week, that Mr Kofi Annan has agreed to come here in January. I believe we should support that decision. Finally, turning to the so-called Conference of Donors in Madrid, our group fully supports the proposal approved by the European Council to contribute EUR 200 million. The only thing we wish to point out is that the US Senate, when President Bush asked them for aid, divided the aid: half in loans and half in donations. In other words, we do not need to go further than the United States which, in principle, has taken a step forward by returning to the United Nations, but in a situation in which it is increasingly necessary to have a timetable for returning sovereignty to the Iraqi people. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to genuinely apply the principles of fraternity, solidarity and equality and to bring forward the European Constitution. The  has taken up that task and I would suggest that the Irish Presidency – a country of poetry and literature – remember a phrase by a great European, a French citizen, who proposed a United States of Europe in the nineteenth century, Victor Hugo, who said: the future has many names. For the weak, unattainable. For the meek, unknown. But for the brave, opportunity. I believe that moment has come, because we must remember that, according to the Eurobarometer, enthusiasm for Europe is decreasing in almost all of our countries. Nevertheless, 78% of citizens are in favour of having a Constitution, including the British – 51%– which is interesting. I would therefore appeal to the Spring European Council to renew the Intergovernmental Conference or, better still, to take the bull by the horns and for the Heads of State or Government to sit down to resolve the outstanding issues. That is what they should do if they really understand what an historic moment we are at. With regard to the issues that are still contentious, we should work on the premiss that our Union’s power must not lie in blocking decisions but in reaching decisions by majority. In this regard, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to express the support of my group – and specifically my Party – in order to unblock the situation in my country, in order to replace the cat-fighting method with constructive debate. It is truly an important step; to use the double majority and a weighting which allows us to move forward and to function. Another important issue – above all fundamental to Parliament – is the scope of qualified majority voting and the balanced distribution of legislative power between Parliament and the Council, including budgetary power. There have been significant backward steps in the recent drafts of the Italian Presidency. And it is an issue of serious concern to us. I believe that Parliament should express its opinion clearly. We are not prepared for there to be a clear backward step because the Constitution is approved. Another important point dealt with in the informal meeting, as well as many others, which was held in Berlin amongst three countries is the creation of a person in charge of the economy in the Commission, a minister for coordination. Parliament had repeatedly argued that we needed responsible economic governance. We have a draft Constitution in which there is a Minister for Foreign Affairs but there is none for the economy. If we seriously want the Lisbon strategy to make progress, a strategy which creates employment and which also creates technological conditions for the future, we must give it a face. There is no reason why this cannot be subject to consideration and an amendment to the Constitution by the Intergovernmental Conference. With regard to the financial perspectives – which also continue to be a contentious issue – we support the Commission’s presentation of the proposal for the financial perspectives in accordance with its responsibilities and we cannot accept being haggled down, above all at a time of enlargement. Parliament could have said that it is in favour of 1.4% of GDP. We have accepted the Commission’s position, but we do not believe that haggling is a good sign for the future. Finally, Mr President, my group is clearly in agreement with taking account of the result of the European elections, on the basis that we all want to win them. In any event, however, there is a fundamental point: given the European political landscape, no party is going to have a hegemony and, if we apply parliamentary thinking when it comes to proposing the President of the Commission, we must be consistent. In a parliamentary system, the important thing is the capacity to create majorities, and that is done according to a programme. Therefore, Mr Poettering, it makes no sense to issue vetoes prematurely. We are also prepared to win the elections and we are then prepared to create a progressive and Europeanist coalition. We will now have to see how prepared you are to do the same. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Poettering, 'inshallah'. We are on the eve of an important historical event: the reunification of Europe, rather than the conclusion of a new stage in enlargement, of which this is the fifth. I believe we must wish the Danish Presidency luck in its task since this is a very important moment. Vice-President Titley and other colleagues from my group will deal with all aspects of this issue. I will restrict myself to thanking the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Haarder, for his reference to my question from the previous plenary session, specifically in relation to the institutional aspects and their relevance to the European Parliament. I must say that I consider the behaviour over recent weeks of the Commission and the Council in relation to issues which are not only subject to negotiation with the enlargement countries, but which affect our daily life and the essence of Parliament, to be entirely unacceptable. I still maintain that criticism. I have listened carefully to President-in-Office Haarder and President Prodi. I am grateful and pleased that you are coming on the 10 December to Parliament’s Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but I maintain my criticism for the following reasons: firstly, it has been proposed to modify the mandate of the Commission; I have always thought, and we have therefore always advocated, that the Commission should be chosen, that from the day of the European elections the Commission should be operational. It was said that its mandate would last until January and now it turns out that the date for the end of the Commission’s operations is being brought forward. It is never made to coincide with the elections, which worries me very much. Secondly, the General Affairs Council of 18 November took a series of decisions which affect many areas, specifically, the parliamentary timetable for 2004, and which make this Parliament during the next legislature a concertina Parliament. We will have Members who are here for just a month, and then we will have the incorporation of other Members from the candidate countries who will have joined the Union. Then, if the negotiations with Rumania and Bulgaria are concluded at the same time, there will be another modification; if it is not at the same time, there will be two modifications. In other words, we will not know what the absolute majority in this Parliament is nor what its membership will be over the next legislature. This has not therefore been done well and it causes many problems. Furthermore, I do not believe it makes any sense to have Commissioners spending several months with nothing to do in the Commission. I believe that Parliament must defend its right to hold hearings and to appoint a Commission on the basis of a joint programme and that is our duty to the electors. I hoped that in the ‘trialogue’, as President Prodi said, there would be progress on this issue. But, Mr President, since there has been no information from you, I very much fear that there has been no progress in last week’s ‘trialogue’; if I am mistaken, please tell me now. And I would ask you please, and we are awaiting the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of 10 December, to raise these issues seriously at the European Council in Copenhagen, because this is not the way to act. And finally, and I will end here, I still have hope because, as Alfonso X the Wise, a philosopher king, said, ‘if God had consulted me on the day of the Creation, I would have given him some useful advice’. Neither the Council nor the Commission are God, and neither are we the Devil. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I hope that the moment of truth has come for the Members’ Statute. I would first of all like to acknowledge the perseverance and tenacity of the rapporteur, Mr Rothley, not as a member of my group but as a representative of Parliament as a whole, and also the perseverance of the President, because we have been working together for a long time and, before he was President, we had taken certain actions which I would like to remind you of in order to explain the points under discussion. At the beginning of this legislature, after the adoption during the last one of the Rothley report, we created a working group in order to be able to define the most controversial elements of the Statute and I would like to point out that an ex-Secretary of the Council and an ex-Secretary of the Commission participated actively in that working group, as well as other important personalities, because we wanted to deal objectively with an issue with a constitutional dimension. We always talk about the institutions, but people work in the institutions, and we, as representatives of the European citizens, must be equal when it comes to legislating. It is not acceptable that we are creating legislation which is applicable equally to all citizens of the Union when we are in such a different, and in some ways such a questionable situation. In this regard we must recognise that public opinion and the media are right when they make certain criticisms. We must therefore resolve this issue. The Constitution has not been approved – it is true – but during this year – and also with the participation of the Council – we have been able to take a step forward with the approval of the Statute on European Political Parties. And it is not that we are soldiers of the political parties, but we are part of these formations which since the Treaty of Maastricht – when there were recognised – contribute to expressing the Union’s democratic will. Therefore, within this passionate and extremely complex debate, I believe that this is an occasion when – and I hope this is demonstrated in the vote – we have been able to achieve unity in the House – in Parliament – so that we can express ourselves clearly. As the President-in-Office of the Council has pointed out, it falls to us to decide on the Statute which you have to approve. I believe that the step we have taken responds to a philosophy of shared legislative power, which is what we have advocated for legislation in the European Union. In other words, we do not want to do it against your will or in confrontation with the States and that is why Parliament is now stretching out its hand to you in order to be able to resolve this thorny issue. On the three issues raised – which I hope will be approved in the resolution – which my group advocates, I believe that the President-in-Office of the Council has been very clear and explicit in relation to primary law, with the reimbursement of expenditure and with taxation. He has also talked about the level of remuneration and I also believe that he has made an interesting observation on the problems it can prevent. There is a final issue on which nothing has been explicitly said, but I believe that the President-in-Office of the Council has also spoken on behalf of the next Presidency, expressing the Irish Presidency’s desire to continue with a shared will with this process. I therefore believe that before 15 January we may have a positive solution for the Statute, which I believe is one of the most important advances we can achieve in terms of dignifying the work of MEPs and the resolution of one of the Union’s most difficult and complex constitutional issues. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when your Presidency of the Council began, you said that what concerned you was the football in Tokyo and we should point out that the Milan team reached the penalty stage. You did not even play in the second half. We can see the results. This is despite the serious and professional work of the Italian Presidency – and I would like to publicly thank Mr Frattini, Mr Antonione for their efforts. My group profoundly regrets the outcome of the Intergovernmental Conference and the fact that it was not possible to approve a Magna Carta, which may cause us an existential crisis if we do not provide a serious political response. We believe that we must recover the Community spirit, which is to take decisions together, combining our interests, acting in solidarity and not trying to block decisions. I say this with particular feeling, because my country was always in the vanguard of European integration and now it is in the rearguard.  I must also say, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you have said – and I believe this must be recorded in the Minutes – that 95% of the Constitution is not subject to debate, but is part of our . I believe this is an important fact. Now, in order to resolve the other 5%, there is something that was demonstrated in Nice and which has now been ratified: that methods involving all-night negotiations, haggling, do not resolve the problem. And therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would put a question to you: the Convention was not the outcome of Nice; we achieved it at Laeken. The Convention has produced this text. Are you in favour of returning to an open and democratic method – the Convention method – or do you think we can resolve the matter by staying up for another night like tonight? I believe we have to be very clear in this approach, and it is also important, therefore, that the Irish Presidency takes up this baton. I have been particularly struck by the fact that you have been especially critical of the current situation in the economic field and this is understandable. What you have said would justify reconsidering the issue of economic governance. You mentioned Gulliver and I am a great admirer of Jonathan Swift, but I do not believe this is the appropriate example. We are not like Gulliver, but like Italo Calvino’s [The Cloven Viscount], we have one half, the European Central Bank, but we do not have a figure in charge of the economy. Are you prepared to propose an amendment to the Constitution and a reform of the Stability Pact aimed at giving us Europeans strength? I believe this is an important issue to which we have to respond. I must also say to you, on behalf of my group  and of the European Parliament I believe  that we are prepared to continue working to achieve the Constitution. We have 95%. The important thing now is to complete a Magna Carta, which is absolutely essential for our future and also for enlargement. – Mr President, I had requested the floor to condemn these intolerable actions and to express my solidarity with my fellow Members from the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and I wanted to make the proposal that you yourself have made. I support it on behalf of my group. – Mr President, I thought the Loch Ness Monster appeared in summer, but it now seems, on this issue, that it appears throughout the year. This is the fifth or sixth occasion on which Parliament has not followed its Rules of Procedure. Mr Evans has quite rightly said that these issues must be dealt with within the discharge procedure and must be debated in the Committee on Budgetary Control. Therefore, my group believes that, when dealing with these issues, rather than taking advantage of certain leaks which have appeared on one weekend in the press of certain countries, of which I believe the majority of this House have no knowledge, and while I have every respect for the principle of freedom of expression, we must abide by our procedures and adhere to our Rules of Procedure, as well as respecting the Treaties and the specific institution of the Commission. Therefore, Mr President, we are opposed to this absolutely untimely proposal and we believe that Parliament should continue its work in accordance with the established procedures. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like on behalf of the Socialist Group to express our solidarity and condolences, in association with the European Parliament’s statement, in relation to the murder of Professor Biagi, and point out that terrorism will not beat us. Furthermore, we condemn the cowardice and impunity which are unfortunately still prevailing in opposition to the idea of freedom and the European cause. With regard to the Barcelona Summit, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am going to begin where you left off. You spoke of public opinion. I believe that the Barcelona Summit, as well as turning Barcelona into an open and cosmopolitan capital for Europe, has demonstrated something which refutes a criticism which we usually make: it is always said that the citizens are not interested in what we do. They have shown that this is not true with the euro and they have demonstrated it in Barcelona. Hundreds of thousands of people demonstrated peacefully in Barcelona, and that shows that what we do in the European Union is of interest to them, and it also shows something else: that we do not need to suspend the Schengen Agreement, because the people know how to behave correctly and lawfully.  As for the content of the Summit, I believe that the Barcelona Council has managed to put the Lisbon process back on track and, since you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are currently the driver of the Council train, I must point out that my group was enormously concerned about the clear risk of the whole train derailing as a result of the statement you yourself made saying that you were in confrontation with the Socialist majority in the Council in terms of the Barcelona Summit. I believe that to organise the process in a balanced fashion helps all of us within a process which must maintain the balance between growth and social protection in order to guarantee full employment and sustainable development. For us, combining policies is very important. We believe that liberalisation, which means regulated deregulation, makes sense if it offers better services at a better price. But it requires – and this is in the Council’s conclusions – better regulation and monitoring. It requires that public monopolies are not replaced with private monopolies and above all it requires –and I address this to the Commission – the realisation of the proposed framework directive safeguarding services of general interest.  We believe that this is absolutely fundamental. With regard to the Stability and Growth Pact, we are in favour of growth. Why do you not review that pact? I have never understood – and I believe that the people do not understand either – why, if a country has a deficit approaching 3%, it has to be fined. All that would do is make things difficult for the country. Therefore, a pact that was established according to the ideas of German conservatives requires a degree of revision in order for it to make more sense.  Having said this, Mr President, in relation to the labour market, I believe that reforms also have to be made, but I would draw your attention to the situation of the Directive on the regulation of working time, I would also draw your attention to something positive, which is the network of childcare centres, and I believe we should consider the issue of the retirement age given that Europe’s population is ageing. Mr President, I will conclude by saying two things: the first is that we fully support the Declaration on the Middle East, and the second is that my Group does not understand why Ecofin can do more than the European Council in terms of creating a Euro-Mediterranean Bank. I believe that Ecofin must be subordinate to the European Council and not vice versa …  … And next I would ask the President to deliver the message that we are beginning to recover our aid – and we take it seriously – in view of Monterrey. A final point, Mr President. You have offered the Council an olive branch in the form of practical and pragmatic dialogue. We are going to make this a reality. In January, President Aznar committed himself in this House to an interinstitutional agreement on better European regulation and legislation. This point does not seem to be reflected in the conclusions of the Barcelona Summit. There is a reference to the phantasmagorical Mandelkern report in paragraph 19 and we are asked, in paragraph 35, to approve eight directives in one fell swoop on the liberalisation of financial services. Why do we not actually sit down and reach an interinstitutional agreement to improve European legislation? We are prepared to do so. The ball is in the Council’s court. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for having described the issue in appropriate terms: what we need is a political vision and to overcome a division of the continent which has lasted for more than a century. I believe that that is what we have to communicate to our electors. On that basis, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to remind you that at the meeting you kindly invited us to in Copenhagen, you spoke of the three phases of the Danish Presidency: the first did not depend on you; it was the Irish referendum, the final element of this year’s electoral rally. Finally, it has been won. And furthermore, you have made constructive use of an agreement – the Franco-German agreement on the funding of the agricultural policy – to make progress on an issue which is important in view of enlargement, which is the financial issue. And if you will allow me, Mr President, leaving aside something that we must debate in plenary session at the second reading in November, which is the state of the negotiations and the conditions for each candidate country, I will mention an important issue, that of funding, with a prior warning: I clearly support President Cox in his criticisms of all the governments – beginning with the Presidency – in relation to their continued treatment since Nice of the allocation of seats in the European Parliament. These seats are not bargaining chips at the mercy of the negotiations between countries, and there is still clear discrimination against two candidate countries – namely Hungary and the Czech Republic – on this point. Listen to what we are saying. Try to resolve the problem by listening to us. With regard to the conclusions, there is a positive point, and that is that you have accepted that no candidate country should be a net contributor from the outset. I believe it is fair to point this out. However, there is one point on which I believe we must defend the rights of the European Parliament, and of all Parliaments: budgets in all democratic countries are carried out on an annual basis. We have supported the existence of financial perspectives, but clearly we cannot, now that they have abandoned the Soviet five-year plans in Russia, start producing ten-year plans. We cannot.  We cannot bind ourselves politically for the next ten years. What are elections for? What are Parliaments for? I believe that this issue – and I think it is good that progress has been made on it – should be debated more seriously. Why? Because, within the framework of Agenda 2000, the calculations were made on the basis of six countries. There are now ten. We are going to achieve a budgetary miracle: to do more with less. And we have to explain this to our public and to that of the candidate countries. Furthermore, I would like to ask you directly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, about the fifth priority, I believe, which you mentioned at the Copenhagen meeting. You said that we had to continue working on the reform of the agricultural policy. In view of the agreements at the summit, what is Commissioner Fischler going to do? Will he be out of a job? Will he abandon the proposal? Are we going to continue working? And I say this because this Parliament is going to vote tomorrow on a resolution on the mid-term review of the reform of the CAP, and that is important. We cannot act in such a contradictory fashion as to approve what was debated in Brussels last week when that is not compatible with the CAP. A final observation, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the Convention. The candidate countries are full participants in the Convention. We are talking about our future. So far progress has been made on a fundamental issue, they have listened to President Giscard d'Estaing who has proposed what is known as – and I think this a terrible expression – the ‘skeleton of the Convention’. I understand how, on the eve of Halloween and the Day of the Dead, we can talk about a skeleton, but now we must put flesh on the bones. We will have to hold a serious debate on this issue. All I want to say is that we must build on the basis of what there is, and what there is is the Community method and the balance between the institutions. And that must be respected and defended. You have said that from Copenhagen we are going to return to Copenhagen. You know as well as I do that from Copenhagen, in terms of economic and defence issues, in order to return to Copenhagen we have to pass for the moment through Athens. I would therefore ask you in this respect that the Danish Presidency provide significant impetus, including from the point of view of their full incorporation into the Community acquis. –  Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, President Giscard d'Estaing, I am addressing you in your own language because I wish first of all to salute your consistency, together with your campaign for Europe which do not just date from the time since you were a Member of the European Parliament. You were one of the creators of the European Council. You worked for the direct election of the European Parliament. You even gave the name ‘’ to the future European currency. Obviously, the name has changed. You were right to choose the tortoise, representing perseverance, as a symbol during the Convention. I had the opportunity to work with you as a Member of the European Parliament, notably when, as an initial experiment, the governments and the Council were opened up as an integral part of the preparatory interinstitutional conference that we set up and that anticipated the Convention before the term existed. Our group thinks that you have done some good work as President of the Convention. Having a tortoise made of jade was felicitous. If it had been a flesh and blood one, you would have been sorry to see it disappear. I am not now going to analyse the work of the Convention, something we shall do in the course of the second September part-session on the basis of the Tsatsos report. Allow me to comment on your quotation from Montesquieu. Indeed, the great historic originality of our work is to devise a democratic structure that goes beyond the nation state in the era of globalisation. Montesquieu is, to be sure, a philosopher who talked about democracy and the nation state. Now, let us not forget that Montesquieu began by writing about the grandeur and decadence of the Rome to which we are now returning. I also salute the fact that you began the draft constitution with a quotation from Pericles’ funeral oration. Indeed, all Europeans, both men and women, could identify with this speech made 2 500 years ago. It shows that we have made our contribution to history, on the pattern laid down by Montesquieu. The Constitution has served Parliament, in its capacity as a legislative power, best, according it its central statute. I share the reservations expressed about the fact that essential areas are still subject to the unanimity rule. Where the executive is concerned, I think that it made sense to have divided the Council into a legislative council and an executive council, but that the solutions proposed at the end of the Convention are not as satisfactory. I concur with a number of the criticisms made by my colleague, Mr Hänsch, concerning the President of the Commission, and I am also in favour of more flexible solutions for revising the Constitution, given the historic situation we are in. I would add, especially, that the spirit of the Convention was already present at the end of the Intergovernmental Conference. Otherwise, I should be at a loss to explain why so many foreign ministers actively participated in the Convention. – Mr President, on a point of order. I want to apologise to Commissioner Patten because in my speech I gave him the title of Vice-President of the Commission. It was a  due to the Convention. I hope that Commissioner Patten will not be offended. –  Mr President, I shall take up where the Commissioner left off; in any EU country, if a minister writes, on the very day that a decision is taken, a letter such as the one the Vice-President of the Commission sent to the Commissioner, without going to the Council, there would be a governmental crisis, and the Prime Minister or President would have to dismiss one or both or these. This is traditional practice in a democracy. I shall take advantage of this occasion to say, Mr President, after listening to the chairman of the Committee on Fisheries of this Parliament, that I have very little confidence in his neutrality when it comes to carrying out an impartial investigation, after what he has said, because the chairman of the Committee on Fisheries has to represent Parliament’s interests as a whole, and not make his own calculations on what could concern one country or another.  If you will allow me, Mr President, I should like to say that we are facing a problem with regard to the reform of the common fisheries policy, but there is also a constitutional problem apparent: in the Council, a President-in-Office of the Council saying that he gives instructions to the Commission; in the Commission, a very clear, public and well-known division, which we found out about from the press. The Commission made the decision yesterday without appearing before Parliament, yet revealed all to the press. The only way we have of finding out about such matters is by buying newspapers. Mr President, I am going to ask just one question of the Commissioner, based on the fact that Parliament has an enormous responsibility in trying to defend the interests of all Europeans, starting with fishermen. We feel that this report does not discuss economic and social cohesion; it does not talk about the social fabric in coastal areas, which are also European; it does not talk about sustainable development; it does not include aquiculture, and does not talk about consumers, who also have rights, and furthermore, we all agree with doctors when they tell us that, to improve our diet, we need to eat more fish. Therefore, Mr President, the only question I would like to ask the Commissioner is the following: why not apply all those principles he claims to defend in the reform of the common agricultural policy to the reform of fisheries? If we say that this is multi-dimensional, that it has to defend citizens, the landscape, the culture and all those aspects that shape European life, why should this be defended in agriculture but not in fisheries? Mr President, I do not want to open a debate on this matter, but as you rightly said, this is a matter of constitutional concern. Moreover, it is part of the legislative procedure. It would be very useful for the House to obtain information from the presidency of the Council regarding the reasons behind and the justifications for the four previously mentioned governments' opposition to the Statute. We could then, perhaps, make progress. At this moment we do not know the reservations these governments have. – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to inform the House that I have written to President Prodi, as I did on 14 August to ask for solidarity with the Germans, the Austrians and the Czechs, telling him that now that the oil slick has reached Galicia we have to remember that the Galicians are European citizens. I am not asking you to take four Commissioners, as you did when you went to Germany, to wade around in the mud, but I would ask you, Mr President of the Commission, to make a clear gesture of solidarity. Furthermore, bear in mind that you have important responsibilities which affect many areas. For example, it would be good if Commissioner Fischler, who is an inland person, could see that 60% of the world industrial production of turbot is in danger. With regard to the Commission’s proposal on the Convention, I would say first of all that the Socialist Group, President Prodi, welcomes the fact that the Commission has done its duty as a driving force – although you have come to Parliament on foot − and as guardian of the Treaties. You have presented, at an appropriate moment, a proposal which my group considers to be positive and which, furthermore, must contribute to making the work of the Convention more dynamic. We believe it is a good proposal. There are many aspects on which we are in complete agreement: the removal of the unanimity rule in the Council; the proposal of a democratic budget with the removal of obligatory expenditure and, with regard to the issue of revenue, I can tell you that my group has voted and the majority of us are in favour of a Community tax; the proposal for European lists for elections, a harmonised electoral process, promising positions on comitology. There are other proposals which we welcome as working proposals. One of them is that the President of the Commission should be elected by the European Parliament, something which I believe a large majority of this House advocates. We are not convinced that the unanimous approval of the European Council is required. I would point out that the European Council already voted in Corfu and since then votes for the President of the Commission by majority. Although in your case it was by acclamation.  Similarly we approved the merger of the High Representative of the Council and the Vice-President of the Commission for External Affairs, and this may give us more strength. In any event, we have to take a decisive step towards a common foreign, security and defence policy. And now I will mention those proposals with which we clearly disagree. Firstly, we cannot accept the idea that the European Council can pass a vote of no confidence in the Commission. This would ruin the balance between the institutions.   We must move on from co-decision to shared legislative power. To this end there must be a Legislative Council which is truly a second Chamber, that is, one that legislates in public and democratically, transparently and clearly. We must tackle the problem of the Council’s combination of executive and legislative power. I would suggest that in this regard we incorporate the Trumpf and Solana proposals and the contents of the Poos report, which are very sensible. A final point, Mr President of the Commission, is that Parliament asked last month for a proposal to the Convention for a legal basis for the protection of pluralism in the European media. There is nothing of this sort in your proposal and I hope that the Convention will include it. Mr President, with regard to the  document, I believe we must work like Penelope but in shifts. Certainly the Commission and Parliament will have to work by night to try to redo what others are going to undo by day. And I would remind you that the time for transactions, pacts and compromises is at the end, that is, at the end of the Convention. In the meantime, we will have to work shoulder to shoulder for the common Community cause. – Mr President, I would like to support you on behalf of the Socialist Group, while pointing out that we have fought bravely with the groups in this House, in the desire to include the right to strike in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and for this Charter to be incorporated into the European Constitution. From this point of view, we respect the exercise of the right to strike. But we also appeal to the responsibility of the workers of Parliament’s administration to in turn respect the event taking place today. We therefore believe, Mr President, that we must continue with our agenda at this historic moment. – Mr President, the publication of the Roadmap on 30 April offers a new opportunity to try to resolve a conflict which has led to seven wars in 50 years. If you will allow me, I believe we must distinguish between the Roadmap, which is an itinerary, and the journey itself. I would like to refer to a poem, which the High Representative will know well, by a great poet, Antonio Machado, who said that ‘the path is made by walking’. The Roadmap may exist on paper, but what we have to do is to create the whole path with an objective which, for the first time, the whole Quartet, and not just certain countries, recognise. The international community believes that there must be a firm and definitive peace agreement based on the existence of two democratic and sovereign states, living together in peace within secure and recognised borders, and even accepting that, for the moment, a divorce may be better than living together. I would also like to point out that this is achieved by moving forward together and not by vetoing. And just as, in the previous debate, I criticised the fact that the Israeli Prime Minister, Mr Sharon, did not receive the High Representative when he visited the Middle East, I also believe we must ask the next President—in-Office of the Council, the Italian Prime Minister, when he goes to the Middle East, not just to visit Israel, but also the Palestinian Authority. Our strength lies precisely in our ability to talk to everybody. I also believe we must stress elements which can help the Roadmap, the joint path, to move forward. For example, the Palestinian Authority has taken steps: the reform of the Finance Ministry, the creation of the post of Prime Minister and the support of the Legislative Council. We must not only talk about the Quartet, moreover, but also about those governments which, like Egypt, are making a very significant effort to contribute to the process moving forward, and above all to achieve, together with the Palestinian militia organisations, a break in hostilities; and I believe that the meeting of the Quartet in Amman on the 22 is an important step that we must support. It is clear that Hamas must leave behind the use of indiscriminate violence and that we must appeal to it and consider including it on the list of terrorist organisations unless things change. We must also ask the Israeli Government, which has the most strength in political, moral and military terms, to fulfil its part of the Roadmap, dismantling the illegal settlements in the occupied territories and putting an end to the policy of selective assassinations. With regard to the steps which must be taken, I believe we must encourage perseverance. We must also – and in this regard I would point out that Commissioner Günter Verheugen has just been in Israel – tell our Israeli friends that we are prepared to intensify our relations at all levels, as long as they also want to do so and are prepared to treat us as we deserve, particularly in view of the political will we have demonstrated. With regard to this process, all we can ask for is perseverance, to seek the possibility of helping these two peoples to move forward together, and an immense dose of patience. And in this regard, at a time when Ambassador Moratinos is on the point of finishing his mission, I believe it should be noted in the Minutes that this group thanks him, as does the whole of Parliament I hope, for the tireless work he has done over all these years. And I would like to end, Mr President, with two brief references to two issues which have also been dealt with by the High Representative and by the Commissioner. Firstly, our relations with Iran. I can only say that the Socialist Group supports intensifying these relations, opening up a new stage of significant relations in the economic and political fields with a young but at the same time very ancient country, with a dynamic and vibrant country, which also wants to open up its society, as is currently being demonstrated by what is happening with the students. We all have experience of the importance of student revolts and demonstrations; they are always an omen of what may happen within society, and I believe it is important to help Iran to find its way as a country. Therefore, as well as signing up to the additional protocol of the Atomic Energy Agency, I also believe that we can contribute to increasing stability in the region, because we must point out that this region needs stability. What it does not need are new points of conflict, because we are facing a multiplication of points of conflict from Afghanistan to the Mediterranean rim. What we have to do in this regard is to put fires out and not generate new ones, and the role of Iran may be very important. Finally, a very brief reference to Operation Artemis. We Europeans have historic responsibilities in Africa and the step taken by the European Union in the Congo is a positive one. Let us not forget that there are masses of conflicts. We have the case of Liberia, for example, which is also currently experiencing civil war. I believe that we in Parliament must dedicate all our resources to the European Union taking a step, which it has taken for the first time on its own, demonstrating that it has the capacity to re-establish normality in a continent to which it owes an enormous historical debt. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, honourable Members, I would first of all like to welcome, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of European Socialists, the outgoing President of the Council and the evocative speech that he has made today. Allow me to make an initial observation on the atmosphere of Seville which was not only in a holiday period, but in Easter week, in a city that is defined as being the capital of the three cultures. We are against a fortress Europe and, above all, a Europe that is impregnable to European citizens, and we therefore think that an explanation is needed here as to why European and Iberian citizens, specifically Portuguese citizens, in this case, and elected representatives, were prevented from exercising their right to go to Seville.  With regard to the six-month presidency, the President-in-Office of the Council beat me to my criticism. He himself, both here and in Oxford, has criticised six-month presidencies. I have to express my agreement with this because, obviously, the book of Genesis cannot be rewritten every six months. Every six months a new Europe begins and that cannot be. For example, regarding the Spanish Presidency, the Lisbon process, which was a balanced process, cannot be recreated with different objectives. It is important to have energy, and we are in favour of liberalising energy, not simply privatising it, but we need to look after public services and job creation. For example, with regard to immigration and asylum: two years ago there was an overall discussion in Tampere. The Swedish Presidency raised the important issue for Europe of our demography. Now it seems that everything is focused around illegal immigration. Does what the previous European Councils have done not count? We do not have a memory of the past, and this is an important point, because it has to be said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you gave the Justice and Home Affairs Council some very strict tasks: we have been waiting in the European Parliament for a more proactive and less repressive European policy to be made on immigration, through the codecision procedure. There have been five directives that have been waiting for the Council to do its work. That is the first thing.  Secondly, I have to say that the Presidency, and it has not been the only one to do this, has systematically avoided thorny issues. It has adopted many chapters of enlargement, but it has to be said that the most important part is yet to be done. I would like to point out that the European Parliament, as in previous enlargements, has always said that enlargement requires a review of the financial perspectives, and you are doing this by the back door. The Parliamentary Group of the European Socialist Party has adopted a document on the necessary reform of the agricultural policy and you are doing it in private, without a public debate, and even without listening to what the Commission is proposing, which may be very debatable, but you have a responsibility to do so. Regarding enlargement, I understand that Mr Poettering, in the German pre-election climate, is attacking Chancellor Schröder as a candidate. What he does not seem to have heard is what Mr Stoiber says about enlargement, which is even stronger.  I would like to say that it will be very difficult for the Danish Presidency to complete the pending issues from Seville in December. Thirdly, I have to say, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you, a pedigree politician, have conducted your task in a manner that has broken with the neutrality of the presidencies. You have quite openly said, regarding what is happening in my country, that the socialists are at fault. You have systematically blamed the governments from my political family for problems and scored points off them. That is not the tradition of European presidencies, and I think that we should return to a more neutral type of presidency. Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is the subject of democratic control and the reform of the Council. It is true that we have concluded the agreement on access to documents. You took the step of placing the negotiation on how to legislate better at a political level. When you say that you are going to open up the Council in its capacity of codecision with Parliament, you tell us to access it via the Internet. We invite you when we have a codecision process. The least that you can do is to officially invite us when you have a codecision process. We are not just members of the public who should find out through the press. To conclude, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, allow me also to mention your proposal for a Presidency of the Council for five years. In January I said that you could be good hosts for the Convention, because you had not expressed your opinion. Now that you have openly expressed it, I have to say that, as a European democrat, I am against us recreating the Holy Roman Germanic Empire and I am in favour of maintaining the Community method. Bearing in mind that I am not the only person to have made accusations, but that Vice-President Podestà has made a series of written accusations in the Italian press ...  ... I am happy to accept Mr Hernández Mollar’s challenge, but I would formally request that a package be produced containing what I have said and what Vice-President Podestà has said in writing ...  Mr President, I would ask the wild boar roaming wild out there to calm down.  I am prepared to provide explanations to the Bureau of Parliament about all these issues, about Vice-President Podestà’s accusations and about mine. Mr President, let me start by making a point relating to method, since the President of the Commission – quite rightly, in my opinion – has touched on the Stability Pact, which is the next item for debate. The President-in-Office of the Council informs me that Minister Tremonti will deal with this subject, not him. We will have to tell both of them what we think about this budgetary and economic issue. Let us start at the beginning, however. On the subject of the Social Summit, which will be covered in greater detail by other Members, I would like to start by saying that I hope the Summit will not just be a bolt-on extra. The Lisbon Strategy has shown us what happens to good intentions in the absence of commitments. We feel it is incredibly important at this time that we should devote ourselves to devising proactive policies for our most valuable asset: human resources. We therefore support Wim Kok’s proposals and hope that the Council will draft policies which are more than just a list of good intentions. Moving on to the outcome of the ministerial meeting in Naples – which apparently, although there was no black smoke issuing from Vesuvius, was marked by a storm that darkened the end of the meeting – I would like to state, in clear opposition to the position adopted by the Italian Government, that we still want to see an agreement on 13 December. We want the Italian Presidency to be a success. I have to admit that the Italian Presidency has maintained a constructive approach, often going much further than most governments. Moving on to the issues under discussion today, I would like to draw the Council and the Italian Presidency’s attention to the responsibilities of this Intergovernmental Conference, which is being held after the Union has opened its doors to democracy. Those doors were opened, but have been shut again. We cannot now accept last-minute deals and haggling that are not only against Parliament, but also against democracy and transparency. Consequently, we in the PSE Group do not consider the question of the Legislative Council settled. In the name of dignity and in order to maintain the ordinary legislative process, the Intergovernmental Conference ought to reconsider the matter. On the subject of the Commission’s composition, I would like to say that, in principle, the majority in my group feels a flexible solution is required. We are not in favour of having one Commissioner per Member State, but whatever happens, we have to remember that we are thinking in terms of transition periods, when actually the Commission needs to be a responsible executive body for Europe. We have noted the Italian Presidency’s proposal regarding qualified majority voting, which is based on a double majority of citizens and States as in Article 1 of the Constitution. There is room for fine-tuning, but what we must not do is go further, to the triple majority established at the Nice Summit, because this approach definitely does not work. We welcome the progress made on structured cooperation on defence under the Common Foreign and Security Policy and we support the Italian Presidency’s proposal on extending the use of qualified majority voting. We are very disappointed with the current third pillar proposals, particularly those relating to judicial cooperation, criminal and civil matters, and the role of the European Public Prosecutor. There is a very clear regression on these points compared with the draft Constitution. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by commenting on the Council’s all-out attack on Parliament, despite the fact that it has no authority to do so. Let us be clear: Ecofin does not have authority over the powers of this House. I would say that this is an offensive move on the part of the Council and also of their advisors, the , as they are called in Italian, since Coreper is the next level down from the Council, and it is in Coreper that the papers are prepared for the Council, as the Ministers are not usually experts in this field. Let me say that this kind of proposal is wholly unacceptable to us. There is a clear demarcation line that must not be crossed. In fact, I would go further: there has been a harmonious balance of power between Parliament and the Council since 1975 and we are not going to take these changes lying down. If the Council dismantles the budget system, we will respond in kind, and we will see who is willing to go furthest. We are not just going to sit still and bemoan our lot. We have powers, and we shall defend them to the bitter end. – Mr President, the matter I raised on Wednesday’s agenda is linked to the Council’s non-participation in the debate on the Nigerian elections, at which the Commission will be represented. We cannot understand why, when the Council is represented in the Chamber, it will not participate in a debate during which it just so happens that the Chairman of the Delegation of Observers, Mr Van den Berg, who was proposed for that appointment by the Council, is going to report. It is surprising that Council should not want to make a statement about such an important matter, even more so since it is represented in the Chamber. I ask you to repeat Parliament’s request that the Council participate in this debate. – Mr President, we have just heard from the lips of Mr Gorostiaga a defence of murder as a method for resolving political conflicts. I believe this is entirely unacceptable. I would add something else: a colleague of Mr Gorostiaga, the Mayor of Andoain, has refused to condemn this murder before all his citizens. I do not therefore accept this kind of argument. And I would say that, at this time, in the Spanish Basque Country the problem is not that there is a political conflict, but that there is a group who believe that murder is a legitimate method. And, since we are in the European Union, I draw your attention to the fact that in the Spanish Basque Country, which is the most autonomous of the European Union’s autonomous regions, municipal elections are planned in which many citizens cannot participate since they are in danger of being murdered, like Joseba Pagazaurtundua. – Madam President, I would firstly like to congratulate Mr Mayer on the report he is presenting today. I am perfectly aware that it is not the report he would have liked to approve and, although it is little consolation, I would like to say that I also would have preferred the report finally approved by Parliament to have been the one Mr Mayer initially drew up. Despite the powerful interests concerned with preventing the world trade in trade mark products, the unusual report by a consulting company which states that consumers would not benefit immediately from the acquisition of goods at lower prices and the lukewarm position of the Commission which does not seem interested in seeking a solution to a problem which has a very negative effect on European consumers, the rapporteur, Mr Mayer, has been able to produce a report urging persistence in the quest for formulae which prevent manufacturers of trade mark products from maintaining excessively high prices on European markets. When, in July 1998, the Court of Justice issued the Silhouette judgment, it caused great commotion in countries which recognised the principle of international exhaustion of the trade mark. Either by law, as in Sweden for example, or by jurisprudence, as in my country, Spain. Legally, the judgment is unassailable from the moment that it states that Article 7 of the Trade Mark Directive, by establishing the principle of Community exhaustion, indirectly establishes the prohibition of international exhaustion. But this is a legalistic interpretation which does not prevent the recognition, as the judgment does, of the harmful effects for consumers of the fact that owners of trade marks can prevent the import of their own products if they originate from third countries. The arguments used by those people who defend the prohibition of the international exhaustion of trade marks – combating counterfeiting, maintaining the prestigious image of goods, diversion of income from the manufacturer to the importer – are at odds with a reality which is demonstrated in the documents produced by the rapporteur. When parallel imports from third countries are allowed, the prices of trade mark products drop. The information provided on price increases in Germany, when the reform of German law prevented international exhaustion, is conclusive. And although my experience is of little scientific value, I must point out that I have been able to note how, in the United States, a product which in Spain costs me EUR 10, costs me just EUR 1.5. For all these reasons and despite the reservations involved in finding a consensus in favour of a more ambitious resolution, it is important that the Commission takes the initiative in favour of consumers and brings forward proposals to strengthen the world market, removing barriers to trade, which are not just customs barriers, but which often consist of anti-competitive practices by companies whose aim is to defend their own profits. – Commissioner, the truth is that I composed this question in May and when I learnt that the proceedings had been opened I considered withdrawing it, but, before I had done so, something happened which led me to change my mind. That was a disproportionate attack against me by the President of the region, Mr Zaplana, for having put this question. And that is not acceptable, Commissioner. When, in the face of innocent questions which are simply intended to clear up issues which the government of the  were hiding, there is a violent reaction, that means that there is more to this than meets the eye and I therefore urge you, Commissioner, to have your services vigorously investigate, removed from the political pressure they are no doubt going to be placed under, what is behind this: tax benefits, the granting of guarantees or, what seems to me more serious, the creation of infrastructures financed with European funds to the exclusive benefit of a private company. The truth is that the leaders of my Autonomous Community are such peculiar liberals that they propose that hospitals and schools should be private, while the public sector is busy building merry-go-rounds and amusement parks. . –  Mr President, even at this unreasonably late hour, I am honoured to submit for your consideration the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on insurance mediation. In my opinion it is a good proposal, on which the Commission should be congratulated. Above all, it is a proposal that manages to find a balance between the various interests concerned. In the area that it is intended to regulate, these interests include those of intermediaries, of insurance companies, and also, and this must not be forgotten, the interests of consumers, although these usually put less pressure on Members than the aforementioned interested parties. All of these interests should be taken into account, and when I say that this proposal is a balanced one, I am referring to the fact that there is a balance between all of the various interests concerned. Not to mention that the amendments tabled by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs must aim to uphold this balance that the Commission has scrupulously maintained. There are also other interests which are, in my opinion, less worthy of consideration. I am talking about sectors whose main aim is to uphold the status they currently enjoy in their respective countries, which will be impossible to sustain when we attempt to produce a harmonisation standard. If the aim of each country, or of each sector in each country, is that the forthcoming directive should not in any way affect the status quo, the only possible solution will, therefore, be not to have a harmonisation standard, or if it is required in an area such as this, that there should be no internal market in the specific sector in question. This aspiration can disguise an attempt for the harmonisation standard to respond exclusively to the current model in a specific country; or, put in more favourable terms, to suggest that Member States should not apply important parts of the directive. Ladies and gentlemen, do you not think that these exceptions could render the harmonisation standard meaningless? Do you not realise that taking this route will cause problems for the internal market? The proposal for a directive included certain exceptions, and it is true that the report enlarges on some of these, but I think that these exceptions are within the bounds of what is reasonable. The idea that those who sell insurance on behalf of travel agencies or veterinary surgeons have to be registered intermediaries should be excluded, for this falls within what is reasonable. Even now, I firmly believe that the further extension of exceptions could end up in nullifying the effect of the directive or, to put it differently, could end up by limiting, to a certain extent, the creation of an internal market in insurance mediation. I still insist, and please forgive me for doing so in this way, that the resultant report includes several special features that certain countries have to ease the adoption of the directive. For example, amendments relating to the tied agent that were designed to find a solution to ease the adaptation of legislation in those countries in which there is currently no regulation in this field. There are, evidently, other formulas, and one of these was the one set out in the Commission proposal, and another that consists of my personal viewpoint stated in my original report. However, neither the original formula nor my original proposal would be completely satisfactory to a good number of my fellow Members, who hold different positions, which is why compromise amendments had to be tabled that, I think, should resolve the problem reasonably clearly. I would like you to be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the result that is being submitted for your consideration is the outcome of a compromise between different points of view that, when seen as a whole, are acceptable. It is only for this reason and out of respect for this compromise that the Group of the Party of European Socialists has decided not to table any more amendments, with the exception of three that are simply of a technical nature, that aim to correct inconsistencies in the text. Clear proof of this fact is the refusal to table any amendments such as those tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, that were subsequently defeated at committee stage and with which I personally agreed, because these are not only in line with the main points of my original proposal, but they also seek to provide better consumer protection, something with which I will always agree. . – Madam President, we must bear in mind that the powers of investigation and control available to the supervisory authorities in the financial field are incomparably greater than those which exist in other fields. In the financial field – to a large extent because there is public concern about credit and savings, including, therefore, companies which use the securities market – there is a public interest in safeguarding the interests of huge numbers of third-party savers who put their confidence in companies which manage other people’s money while the real owners of that money have no capacity to intervene in that management. The protection of the interests of third parties justifies a high degree of intervention by the public authorities, which leads, amongst other things, to very great powers which provide the authorities with information about the internal affairs of companies. There is no doubt whatsoever that, if the data obtained as a result of the exercise of these authorities were to be made known to third parties, this could not only cause irreparable damage to the bodies under investigation, but could also cause serious fluctuations, and ultimately changes, in the market. Therefore, as a counterbalance to such broad powers of investigation, the authorities are obliged to keep the information secret. That duty of secrecy, taken to the extreme, could hinder certain objectives pursued by the control authorities, which, ultimately, consist of ensuring that the markets behave properly. There is no doubt that one of the areas in which the phenomenon of globalisation has had the most obvious effect is the financial field, in which the large companies use the securities market. Today large companies operate in many countries, but there are no supranational supervisory authorities and furthermore the Community authorities find it difficult to carry out their work outside their own borders. Ultimately, we are talking about issues which involve sovereignty. To sum up, the problem is that the authority supervising the activities of a certain country cannot itself access the data relating to the activity of that company, its parent company or its subsidiaries in other countries because its powers of supervision do not extend beyond the borders of the country to which it belongs. In order to resolve this problem cooperation is needed between the authorities of the various countries. This cooperation, amongst other things, has to take the form of an exchange of the data obtained. The problem is that this exchange generally involves a degree of non-compliance with the obligation to secrecy. It is therefore necessary for the regulations to provide for a way to overcome this conflict between the obligation to secrecy and the exchange of information, and to seek balanced solutions to the problem. With regard to the European regulations, after the previous unstable regulation which furthermore was different for the different sectors, in 1998 the first banking sector directive was amended to allow Member States to reach agreements on the exchange of information with third countries, on the condition that the information exchanged was subject to guarantees of professional secrecy at least equivalent to those in force in the European Union. Now, by means of this directive, the corresponding amendments are being made to the other financial sector directives, in the same way that they were made in the case of the banking sector directive. Just as we agreed with the 1998 amendment, and for the same reasons, we are going to support these amendments in the terms proposed by the Commission. A final comment. We are currently awaiting a report by the European Parliament on the review of the SLIM initiative aimed at simplifying the legislation on the internal market. What has happened in this field may be very significant and it may have very beneficial consequences. If we want to simplify the legislation, it will also be necessary to reduce the number of regulations and rationalise the initiatives. We should consequently ask the question why, when the banking sector directive was amended in 1998, the directives on insurance and collective investment, that is to say the ones that are now being amended, were not amended at the same time. The simplification and coherence of the legislation may perhaps have required this. – Mr President, since I have been mentioned by the presidency, I would like to say that I have in fact received a reply, which I do not agree with. I do not agree with the presidency's interpretation of the questions made by Members of this House. I do not agree with it because it seems that that interpretation can be seen as a way of reducing the legitimate initiatives of Members to monitor the Commission. My question specifically asked whether the Commission – not the President, but the Commission – felt threatened by the words of a Spanish MEP, a member of the People's Party, in which he said that, if the Socialists criticised Mrs de Palacio for her involvement in the flax scandal which took place in Spain when she was Minister for Agriculture, they would threaten to bring down the Commission. If this is not considered by the presidency to be a priority, if this is not a question which, because it is not considered a priority, could not be answered by, for example, Vice-President Kinnock, then I am truly amazed. In any event, and while I express my disagreement, this is not what I wanted to say. Like my colleague, Mr Izquierdo, who was requesting support from the presidency, I wanted to say that it was unacceptable for replies addressed to Members of this House to be published in a pro-government newspaper in Spain, before the Members are made aware of that reply. And, while strongly protesting at this anomaly, I would ask you to consider my question withdrawn. I do not want the Commission to reply to the ABC newspaper before replying to me. And since I do not want the Commission to go through the shame of having to notify the Spanish press of its replies before the Members to whom they are addressed, I am not going to participate in this behaviour and I withdraw my question. –Mr President, the report before us is undoubtedly not the most exciting of those we are to discuss in this sitting. However, in saying this, I am not of course referring to Lord Inglewood’s excellent piece of work. We should congratulate him, and ourselves, on this. Much can be achieved when, as a result of the codecision procedure, the European Parliament’s work improves the Commission’s proposals at a highly technical level, as it has in this instance. This not only makes a positive contribution to the process of drafting regulations, it also enhances the prestige of the European Parliament. The argument for broadening the scope of the codecision procedure is therefore strengthened. As I said a moment ago, this report does not give rise to keen argument. That does not mean, however, that it lacks significance from a technical point of view. The proposal to update the directives on accounting is not only very important, it is in fact essential if the transparency of company accounts is to be improved. Traditionally, the valuation rules for company accounts stipulated that assets be valued at cost price, referred to as the historic value. This criterion was therefore invoked in the directives on accounting, as is logical in order to prevent the manipulation of accounts to present an inaccurate picture of a company’s status. The aim was to prevent company directors from skilfully revaluing entries under assets to produce a distorted impression of the state of their business. Incidentally, certain accounting irregularities which are not tolerated in company accounts, have been sanctioned in relation to the public accounts of a number of Member States, to allow them to join the euro. In this instance, the euphemism ‘creative accounting’ has been used in place of ‘irregularities’. However, these accounting criteria relating to historic value were not cast in stone. Furthermore, the financial markets today are highly complex and the use of sophisticated financial products is increasing. It is therefore necessary to replace historic value with fair value. This fair value, included in the proposal for a directive that we are to approve, is obviously not as fixed as permanently as the historic value, given that its limits are much more loosely defined. Its inclusion requires more precise instruments, as provided in the proposed amendments we will support. – Mr President, I must say firstly that I am truly perplexed. I am perplexed by the fact that a British Member, though talking in place of a Spanish Member, has raised an issue that in no way relates to the rules on competition, that in no way relates to the reports on competition, but which relates to the unacceptable existence of the only territory in the European Union still to be decolonised. It seems to me that to use the speaking time of a Spanish Member to raise these issues is, to say the very least, a discourtesy. Anyway, leaving that aside, I believe that the discussion of the annual report on competition policy is a good opportunity to consider a debate on the progress and guidelines relating to this important European policy. If we are to be self-critical, I would like to ask you whether we are really holding this debate or whether we are simply restricting ourselves to voting on a resolution which, if we are going to be honest, is more a cause for pity than for glory. Please do not interpret this as a criticism of the Commissioner, Mr Monti, since I am more than happy to acknowledge his work in the area of competition and he has always been prepared to hold any necessary debates with this Parliament and has always been in favour of informing us promptly of the positions of his department. Neither do I have any intention of criticising the rapporteur, who has produced a report of high quality and has also done so with flexibility and tolerance, accepting the positions of various political groups. I therefore believe that my comments relate more to the behaviour of this Parliament and, fundamentally, to the vestiges of an era when its was simply a consultative assembly and did not have the co-legislative role which it has now. We therefore have a tendency to issue documents, this document on the annual report on competition, and then go back to considering other issues on which we have already contributed as legislators, although unfortunately competition rules are excluded from the codecision procedure. Furthermore, there is not always coherence between what we say at one moment and what we say at another. Returning to the report, I would like to congratulate Mr Agag once again on its content, most of which we agree with, and to make a comment. Once the Commission has taken its decision, I believe that there is no need for, and we should remove, the section relating to the prohibition of public companies investing capital in companies from the liberalised sectors – think of the conflict between  and  – which Mr Agag introduces in his desire to stick up for and assist certain positions of the Spanish government. – Mr President, today no one disputes, and of course I am not going to do so, the fact that state aid alters the conditions for competition and is a damaging element that encourages inefficiency in undertakings. This is certain, but if each and every one of us is honest, we have to admit that in our public life we have often defended state aid when an undertaking has required it in order to establish itself, for example, in our constituency, or in order to prevent it from closing. I began by saying this in order to highlight what is associated with some positions and to point out that when we are trying to issue a European Parliament opinion on the annual report on state aid, the Group of the Europe People’s Party tries to conduct an ideological debate in this House on state aid in which it aims to go further than anyone and to demonise all types of aid. This happened last year with the Jonckheer report, and this year, despite the more flexible position adopted by Mr Evans, it has continued to arise, perhaps in order to present the Socialists as some sort of outdated interventionists who use measures that are as damaging for the market as state aid. I have already had the opportunity to express that state aid is a transfer of public money to private companies and, therefore, that as Socialists we should also be against it. However, we cannot deny the obvious and we should recall that the Treaty does not forbid all types of aid, so some types that are aimed at objectives such as social cohesion, regional cohesion, the environment, etc. should be permitted. If that is the case, and it is, why does the Group of the Europe People’s Party refuse to accept amendments that cover that point? The same occurs when the report insists, following the Commission’s line, that aid for coal did not serve to secure the future of the industry, but in the same paragraph they refuse to accept a sentence, also from the Commission, saying that this aid was necessary in order to mitigate the social and regional impact of the restructuring of the sector. In this respect, it is difficult for us to agree with a report which, although it reflects part of the truth, refuses to include another part of the truth. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the group which has put the question and in particular Mr Mayer, since it is very timely. I also thank the Commissioner for his reply. I believe that, although the time limit stated in last year’s European Parliament resolution has not come to an end, to monitor it and stay informed, to continue the debate, is our obligation as Members of Parliament. During the debate on the Mayer Report last year, we had the opportunity to witness – as is also happening today, through the previous speakers – the difficulties involved in achieving a broad majority view on this sensitive issue, both in this house and in society. I believe that the problem is not so much with the trade marks directive but with the interpretation contained in the Silhouette judgment on Article 7 of the trade marks directive. Before that judgment, there were countries where, either through legislation – as in Sweden – or through case-law – as in Spain – the principle of the international exhaustion of trade marks was permitted, but following that judgment it was clearly prohibited. While it is true that there are many conflicting interests, it is also the case that we must attend to the interests of the consumer and it is unthinkable that European consumers, as a result of an excessive interpretation of trade mark law, which goes beyond the principle that the trade mark is restricted to designating the origin of a product, should not be able to acquire products at lower prices. The issue cannot be resolved, as some reports say, exclusively by applying the Treaty’s competition rules, for the simple reason that the abuse of a dominant position is only applied to those who have a dominant position in a certain significant market, and we all know that, with these types of products protected by a trade mark, it is very unlikely that a trade mark would warrant being classified as dominant. So far the Commission – we await these reports which it has requested – has mentioned the Nera Report, which guaranteed that the recognition of international exhaustion would not affect prices beyond 2%. I do not agree with this conclusion and, while personal experience is of little worth, I can give endless examples of how products which in other countries or in my own country, when international exhaustion was allowed, could be sold at significantly lower prices, since the Silhouette judgment can only be found on official distribution networks and at considerably higher prices. With regard to the Nera Report, the Commission is undoubtedly aware of the work done by the Swedish competition authority, which reaches radically different conclusions to those of the Nera Report and those maintained today by Mrs Fourtou. I therefore believe that the time has come to invite the Commission to present the report, as the European Parliament previously requested. When it does, I believe we will once again have the opportunity to insist on this debate. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a new document which forms part of the effort being made by the European Commission to reform and update Community competition law. Furthermore, this document is consistent with various other regulations and documents which this Parliament has declared itself in favour of. The distribution of automobiles has always had special treatment, a sectoral treatment, and, if pushed, I would say that this system may have made sense before, when there were different regulations for the different distribution systems, but perhaps it makes less sense now. The fact is, however, regardless of this, that the different regulations that have been in force in this sector have not managed to remove the obstacles in that market. The differences in prices in the different countries are still considerable, essentially as a result of the actions of manufacturers who are determined to maintain national borders and prevent cross-border trade. We only have to look at all the decisions the Commission has taken and consider the considerable fines and penalties imposed on manufacturers as a result of this anti-competitive behaviour to realise how true this claim is. The Commission is now presenting us with a new proposal for a Regulation which I believe takes us in the right direction. Some of the sectors involved tell us that they will go through hell if the Regulation is approved, and they forecast harmful consequences for the sector. I do not believe that this is true. However, I am sure that with the proposed measures manufacturers will be asked to maintain unjustifiably high prices as a result of anti-competitive actions. The essential point of the proposal is the disappearance of the location clause for the dealer, and that measure is a step in the right direction. It is true that it may affect the structure of the distribution market, and I can therefore agree to a transitional period. However, not to approve this measure until a study is carried out and a new decision adopted, let us not deceive ourselves, represents subterfuge by those people who do not want this measure to be approved. Not now, not ever. – Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I wish to reject the words of Mr Fischler – and his proposals – and I wish to support the motion for a resolution presented by various parliamentary groups, which has the practically unanimous support of this House. Mr Fischler, the European Commission must not continue to ignore the requests of the sectors affected. You cannot continue to insist that you alone are right and that we are all mistaken. You cannot ignore the fact that, if we do not adopt support measures for nuts and locust beans, many crops will eventually be abandoned. There will be irreparable consequences for many areas of the Union, from both socio-economic and environmental points of view. It must be said that both specific measures for nuts and locust beans, as well as the lump sum aid for hazelnuts, were in fact transitional measures aimed at the conversion of the crops, but there is no reason why they cannot be extended. Commissioner, a conversion in the agricultural sector cannot be treated as if it were a conversion in the industrial sector. In industry, one can modernise plants and improve productivity, but in the case of certain crops, however much investment is made, however many changes are made in terms of marketing, we cannot alter the fact that certain areas are arid or semi-arid. We cannot imagine that this problem can be resolved through the scant funds available in the rural development programmes. That is not the place to find a solution for these areas, as the Commissioner and the whole of the Commission seems to think. Furthermore, it does not appear that an extension of this aid until the adoption of the measures proposed in the resolution, nor even until the definitive measures themselves are adopted, will cause problems within the conversations in the World Trade Organisation. The sector produces a surplus and Community protection is minimal. If the quantities requested are not great, if there are no further problems, if this is the only way to maintain standards of living in certain areas, Commissioner, this aid must be retained. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate Mr Evans on his wonderful report and point out once again the large extent to which we have agreed on analysing the reforms of Community competition law as a whole, as well as the social consequences of competition. It is true that the great beneficiaries of an appropriate competition policy are the consumers, the citizens as a whole. We should not see this regulation as something that exclusively concerns companies; it is of interest to all of us as citizens. We also agree on our positive assessment of the Commission’s attempts to modernise and reform Community competition law. We must congratulate Mr Monti and the whole of the Commission on having the courage and bravery to complete a reform – which the Commission is determined to do – a reform that was started years ago. I have said in other interventions that, in my opinion, it is not only necessary but also takes us in the right direction. The Commission’s chosen path is the right one. Having been in force for 40 years, Community competition law had begun to show signs of exhaustion. There is no doubt whatsoever that the competition rules included in the Treaty, and in the law derived from it, have contributed significantly to the growth of a culture of competition, and have been fundamental to the creation of the single market. On the other hand, the Commission’s decisions and the judgments of the Court of Justice have enjoyed well-earned prestige in terms of achieving this aim. We must not forget, however, that those rules were initially alien to European law. The European legal tradition, especially the continental tradition, concentrated more on aspects relating to unfair competition; the free competition elements were imported from the United States. A Spanish business academic – Professor Garrigues – explained very graphically that the American soldiers who came to Europe to fight in the Second World War brought ‘antitrust’ legislation in their rucksacks. Now, those positive aspects could not disguise certain deficiencies which had traditionally been demonstrated by the experts. Perhaps the best-founded criticism referred to the rigidity of the rules. It is true that it was perhaps necessary at the beginning to apply the rules so rigidly, because new rules had to be applied, imported from the United States, in accordance with the continental legal tradition. I must add here that it is no surprise that Mr Evans’ assessment and concern does not coincide exactly with that of his colleague in the Group of the European People’s Party, Mr Karas. Mr Evans is behaving more like an Anglo-Saxon lawyer, while Mr Karas has demonstrated the usual preoccupations of continental lawyers. I believe that this reform is more along the lines of Anglo-Saxon law and, despite being a continental lawyer, I agree with it. I am not so concerned about legal certainty as some people. Nevertheless, it is true that what was acceptable twenty or thirty years ago is not necessarily acceptable today. Today, the single market is a reality and the culture of competition is sufficiently widespread. Change was therefore necessary. It is no longer possible to apply competition rules which do not take account of the economic analysis and a consideration of the market’s power. In the field of vertical restrictions, the new regulations on exemption by category and the guidelines for their application have been approved. The time has now come to introduce reform in the field of horizontal restrictions. In this area, the Commission is now presenting us with two proposals for regulations, one on research and development agreements, and the other on the regulation of specialisation agreements, accompanied by guidelines. It should be noted, as the report does, that there is now an noticeable difference with regard to the treatment of vertical and horizontal restrictions since, in the case of vertical restrictions, there was a single regulation and guidelines which covered all the possibilities to which that regulation applied. With regard to horizontal restrictions, however, there are guidelines which are, to a large extent, broader than the two specific aspects regulated by the two proposals for regulations. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has presented Parliament with five amendments which express some of our concerns. Of these, I would draw your attention to our concern at the fact that crisis cartels are not dealt with. They were included in the previous legislation and have disappeared here without sufficient justification. I would therefore ask you to vote in favour of these amendments. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the reform, the Commission will be able to focus on tackling the conduct of those who hold power in the market, because it is that conduct which is genuinely anti-competitive and damaging to the market. I repeat that in this sense we are in agreement. It seems that we will finally be able to say goodbye to an over-rigorous and over-formal approach and welcome economic analysis into European competition law. – Commissioner, you say that you are going to adopt the necessary measures, one of which is the opening of an infringement procedure. I feel particularly obliged to mention the problem of Spain. This is not only for obvious reasons of nationality and concern, but for an additional reason: Article 92 of the Regulation on the Community Trade Mark lays down that certain additional competences created under the Community trade mark will be attributed to Spanish courts and tribunals, for disputes between two companies which do not have effective establishments within the European Union. Since the Commissioner has said that Spain is one of countries which is not complying, even though it is the country of the headquarters of the Community Trade Marks Office, this makes it genuinely significant that Spain has not been complying with this obligation since November 1996. I believe that the Commission’s patience has run out and, if it must begin this infringement procedure, let it do so straight away. . – Mr President, Amendment No 55, rather than being an oral amendment, in fact adds text that must have been forgotten, since this text does not appear. Therefore, the following words should be added to the end of the text of Amendment No 55: ‘will have to give the name of these insurance companies’. –  Mr President, when it comes to adopting a position on this final interlegislative phase of the directive, we must not base our positions on its content, but instead consider the role of the European Parliament in the codecision procedure. If we look closely at what has happened, we will reach the conclusion that, so far, the system has not worked. I know that it is difficult for decisions to be reached in Council, for governments holding divergent positions and countries with different legal traditions to reach agreement, but I have the feeling, or rather I am certain, that this consensus in Council is being sought with no awareness at all of the European Parliament’s thoughts on the legislation’s content. Of course, when agreement is reached within the Council, any proposal by Parliament which goes against this comes to be seen as a threat to an agreement that has been reached, sometimes and which may hang in the balance. In these circumstances, the Council ultimately becomes intransigent and adopts a position that always implies: either you do what we say or the law will not be adopted. Mr Provan’s words have shown that the Council has attached less importance to achieving an agreement with the European Parliament than to the feeling that a certain country would not meet a commitment that it had previously given. When Parliament studied the content of the common position at second reading, it was particularly concerned about two issues: workers’ participation and the obligation to neutrality imposed on boards of management. With regard to these two items, a majority of the European Parliament had the audacity to oppose what had previously been decided on in Council. I consider it to be extremely serious that no consideration was given at first reading to the positions of the European Parliament on workers and their representatives being fully informed and being able to state their opinion on the takeover of their companies and this justifies the European Parliament’s opposition to the common position. Furthermore, the fact that this Parliament sought a balance between those for and against allowing defensive manoeuvres, far from deserving the criticism heaped upon it by certain self-interested sectors, should have their gratitude, because the European Parliament’s position was not to allow any type of defensive manoeuvring as was suggested, with considerable bias, to the media. You simply have to study the content of the amendments tabled to see that this statement is false. We do not look favourably on the Council position of rejecting any possible agreement with the positions of this Parliament. – I would first of all like to congratulate the Belgian Presidency on having managed to convince the Belgian government to withdraw the linguistic objections which, according to what was said earlier, were hindering the approval of the Regulation on models and designs. Furthermore, we are pleased that, again under the Belgian Presidency, this Regulation, which is so essential to the operation of the internal market, and also to the operation of the Office for the Harmonisation of the Internal Market in Alicante, can be approved immediately. –  Madam President, thank you Commissioner for being here with us today and for the statement you have made. You should be in no doubt that you have the support of all parliamentary groups, including mine, of course, for all the measures and positions that you have announced for the forthcoming discussions in the World Trade Organisation. Less than two months ago, Parliament’s Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy held a hearing, at which one of the speakers was the Chairman of Euratex, the textile employers’ association, who concluded his speech by asking what we could do to solve the problems facing the textile industry. From these benches, I now wish to say, in line with the Commission, that these sittings constitute part of the answers that the sector is asking us to provide in order to remedy an extremely serious situation, which I will not go into again, since the Commissioner is fully aware of it. With regard to issues of market access, the Commissioner has said that until other Member countries demonstrate greater openness, we will not lower tariffs and customs duties. I should like to ask you whether, since there is such a significant imbalance between the amounts we charge and those charged by other countries, in the event that significant agreements are not concluded in this field, we can once again put forward the idea of increasing customs duties to whatever level we wish on textile products imported from these other countries that are not willing to lower their own. Lastly, Commissioner, I wish to ask you a very specific question concerning the recognition of industrial property rights. We are frequently told by representatives of the textile sector that, with regard to some of these property rights, such as design, which is not as visible as others such as trademarks, although countries have signed TRIPs agreements within the World Trade Organisation, they tend not to comply with them. I should like to ask you whether you intend to take any action on this matter. . – Mr President, in accordance with the Commission’s comments, I would like to table an oral amendment to Amendment No 17 saying the same thing, but in a different place. So instead of being at the end of the recital, the paragraph proposed in Amendment No 17 would be after “other professional activity”, so that the amendment would read: “This Directive should not be applied to persons who conduct another professional activity, for example, a tax expert or accountant who advises on insurance incidentally as part of that other professional activity", and here the paragraph proposed in the Amendment would be included, "or to those simply providing general information on insurance products”. The rest of the recital would remain as it was drawn up in the common position. . – Mr President, I am afraid that my opinions will differ from those of Mr Harbour or Mr Wuermeling, because, although the 1985 directive on civil liability was a milestone in the field of consumer protection and furthermore a chapter in which the Commission played a very important role and adopted a strikingly progressive approach, I think that, at the same time, several years have passed since it was adopted. I therefore feel that it is notable and praiseworthy that the Commission has decided to review it. This Green Paper represents a first step towards this review. We must bear in mind the fact that in 1985 certain principles that are today considered to be fundamental were not incorporated, and at that time could not be incorporated into the text of the directive, because debate on the subject had not reached a sufficiently advanced level. Amongst these principles, the first we should highlight is the importance of the manufacturer accepting, at least in certain areas, the development risks. I come from a country, Spain, where consumer legislation dictates that the manufacturer bears responsibility for development risks. There have been no bankruptcies among insurance companies or manufacturers, nor has technical progress been hampered as a result. For too long the consumer has had to bear the full cost of this risk in the cause of progress. The second principle consists of removing the burden of proof from the party that has suffered the damage. We are talking about an objective responsibility and therefore the burden of proof imposed on the victim must be made as light as possible. The third principle concerns setting levels of compensation. The directive does provide for this eventuality, but we must bear in mind the fact that judicial bodies are used to seeing this setting of compensation as interference by legislative authority in its duties and this issue must therefore also be reviewed. –  Mr President, in my opinion, Amendment No 60 is not incompatible with Amendment No 41 and can be voted on as an addition. I would like to hear the opinion of the proposing group. – Mr President, the debate on the Annual Report on Competition Policy ought to be the most important debate on this subject to take place in the House each year. This is not always the case however. The explanation can be found in the nature of Parliament and its Rules of Procedure. They do not lend themselves to discussion of long-term issues. After all, this is a political chamber, not an academic body or a group of experts. To take an example, here we are at the end of 2002 debating the content of a Commission report relating to 2001. Many significant events have taken place since then. Given these constraints, any report by Parliament is unlikely to be a suitable document and provide an overview of the present state of the debate on European competition policy. I do not of course wish to imply any criticism of Mr Lipietz. He has done good work. What happens is that interplay between political majorities and minorities, a feature of chambers like ours, means that a whole range of elements tend to be added to resolutions such as the one before us today. Often these elements have little direct bearing on the main issue, which on this occasion is competition policy. Clearly, this is nothing new. I am sure Mr Lipietz would agree with me. When he appeared before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs he regretted the introduction of many of the additional sections and the rejection of other potential ones. I am therefore bound to agree with the rapporteur. I believe that if the report were approved as it now stands, it would not prove to be a document offering useful insights or significant contributions to the current debate on competition, despite the rapporteur’s good work. Further to Commissioner Monti’s statement today, you should all agree on these shortcomings. In Mr Monti’s view, there are several serious problems in the area of competition at present. These relate to modernisation, to reform of Regulation 17 dating from 1962, which we trust will be undertaken as a matter of urgency, and to the various difficulties arising from repeated jurisprudence on mergers at the Court of First Instance. I refer to the three rulings. Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, European competition policy and the Commission’s work in this field have been vital to the creation of the single market. Thanks to the introduction of the euro, it has become obvious that price differences between the Member States still exist. Allow me to suggest that we should today be considering whether competition policy needs to be strengthened, institutionally or in some other way, so as to overcome the last remaining barriers between us and the single market. These, then, are some of the problems we should be tackling. It is unfortunate that we have failed to do so in the course of this debate. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please believe me when I say that I am not particularly interested in stirring up past issues. If I am doing so, however, it is also the case that, when it appears that a high degree of consensus has been reached on certain issues, it is good to consider what has happened, at least so that, if not in this case, then certainly in the future, we can draw conclusions on how parliamentary tasks are carried out within the codecision procedure. I am therefore going to focus exclusively on two aspects of the first occasion on which – as all the honourable Members will remember – during this legislature, Parliament did not approve the text of the Conciliation Committee, which was basically in line with the text of the common position. The first of these aspects will allow me to remind the honourable Members of the different formulae which were considered on the initiative of the European Parliament in terms of regulating administration bodies’ neutrality obligation and comparing them – where appropriate – with the formulae now being presented. And in view of this comparison I do not believe that what we are going to approve today improves on what on that previous occasion had been proposed, at least by the European Parliament. Because at that time this House proposed maintaining the administration bodies’ neutrality obligation – which is positive – although, simply for certain cases in which it is not possible for the board of directors to meet, it proposed certain formulae, which were not accepted by the Council or by the Commission. What is happening now? Well it has only been possible to reach a consensus by greatly reducing the Commission’s initial proposals. Ultimately, by not regulating the section relating to the neutrality obligation and consequently allowing the legislations of the Member States to regulate, by means of handy subsidiarity, issues relating to the prohibition or non-prohibition of defensive measures. I do not believe that this is a good formula for legislation. I believe that, if certain proposals presented by Parliament had been approved at that time, we would have had more suitable legislation. The second aspect – which has been mentioned by my colleague, Mrs van den Burg – relates to the chapter on information and consultation for workers. I would like to point out that, on that occasion, a large majority of Members of Parliament approved rights to information and consultation for workers which were shared by the immense majority of these Members. Some people pointed out on that occasion that there had been an alliance between certain conservative sectors and the Socialists, as a result of which the former had obtained flexible treatment for the prohibition of defensive measures, while the latter obtained broad recognition of the participation of workers. At that time it was also proposed that we Socialists should break the pact and vote in favour of the proposals in the common position in exchange for recognising the workers’ right to information. Well, on that occasion we did not do so, but – as Mrs van den Burg has said – if this aspect is not recognised and if the relevant amendments are not approved we will be obliged to vote against. Mr President, as has already been said here, a couple of years ago, when we held the debate on the Sixth Framework Programme, a compromise solution was reached on the conditions under which research on stem cells could be funded. Let there be no doubt that this was a compromise solution between those people, such as myself, who preferred a more open and liberal position and others who advocated more restrictive solutions. Consequently, now that we are debating the issue once again, it does not appear logical that that compromise solution should be considered an extremist position and that other parties, opposed to research on stem cells, should tell us: let us now seek a compromise between that solution and our position, which, at the end of the day, means rejecting any possibility of funding research with stem cells. No, Mr President, this is not a good system. It is a form of subterfuge aimed at hindering the European funding of research with stem cells, when there are many countries which allow it, because there are significant sectors of the scientific community and of the social community in general which believe that researching with stem cells can lead to great progress in the fight against the extremely serious diseases which devastate us today. I believe that this way of working is not worthy of the European Parliament. It could have been said – and this would seem logical – that, since it is exclusively a question of funding, the funding would be allowed. Mr Ribeiro mentioned the principle of subsidiarity, well, let us accept it. We could say: European funding is allowed in all countries which allow research with stem cells. Under what conditions? Under those allowed in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity in those countries. Nevertheless, rather than maintaining this position, we have upheld the agreement which was reached on the Sixth Framework Programme. Let us not now aim, as a result of intolerance, not just to destroy the European Area of Research, but also to prevent and hinder successful research in this area in the countries where it is allowed. – Commissioner, I congratulate you on the presentation of this document which is the last of the raft of rules relating to vertical restrictions. I would like to make some comments. You have given the example of the distributor in Amsterdam who could open a branch in London. Let us bear in mind that distributors are dependent – as always, but even more in this case, given the quantity of the investments to be made – on manufacturers, and that contracts do not extend for very long periods. It is true that, in the event of a resolution, they could go to tribunals, but I believe that, in the majority of EU countries – at least, Commissioner, in yours and in mine – the indefinite extension of cases would lead to the bankruptcy of distributors. Therefore, given that selective distribution is allowed, I would ask you whether, in order to achieve equality of prices between the different countries, it would not be more sensible, for example, to restrict this prohibition of the selective vendor selling exclusively to the final consumer or to other members of the network. That would favour parallel importers who would contribute to lowering prices. – Mr President, I would like to confirm what Lord Inglewood said: the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote against the second part of Amendment No 3 and against Amendment No 6. I believe that this would increase the coherence of the text. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Lord Inglewood on his excellent work. – Mr President, with regard to the protection of intellectual property rights, the reality always seems to be ahead of the regulations. The evolution of the economy, the appearance of new forms of contract and technological innovations are phenomena which mean frequent and rapid changes which must be taken into account when  drawing up regulations. In this field, the process of producing regulations is slow, too slow, given the speed of the actual changes which that legislation is intended to regulate. If this is the case, it is all the more obvious when the process involves multinational or supranational organisations, such as the WIPO, which has debated the treaties which we are proposing to rectify. In considering whether we are in favour of the ratification of these treaties, we may wonder whether they meet the most current needs in that field. It would be difficult to reply in the affirmative. There is no doubt that these treaties update the regulations in this field, but neither is there any doubt that there are currently many problems which they do not resolve. The recent inclusion of the Encyclopaedia Britannica on the Internet and the appearance of virtual libraries have demonstrated that there are still many problems to be resolved. For example, the solution adopted by one of the most significant virtual libraries – which, by the way, belongs to my own university, the University of Alicante – which consists of not including works still protected by copyright, implies a considerable limitation to the development of this type of virtual library. Moreover, ratifying these treaties now is going to be of little relevance. On the one hand, the problems which it aims to resolve have already been resolved to a large extent by means of the directive on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society. On the other hand, the majority of the Member States have already adapted their legislation to the treaties which are now being ratified. I must finally point out that the legislative amendments introduced in a number of countries, such as Spain, have resolved some conflicts but have led to others which are commonly found when it comes to putting a price on rights and material. In such a sensitive field, we must find solutions which balance the different interests involved. Only in this way will the regulations be accepted. –  Madam President, this debate is a consequence of the Commission’s proposed reform of three regulations: on fruit and vegetables, products derived from fruit and vegetables, and the aid scheme for producers of certain citrus fruits. As has been pointed out, the Commission has acted without awaiting the report on the operation of Regulation (EC) No 2020/1996, which, according to the Commission, will be available by the end of this year. The fact that it has not waited for this document – as would have seemed more natural – and has initiated the reform reveals that the Commission either has little interest in the results of its report or could not care less about its contents. With this action, one cannot help feeling that the Commission is determined to reform these regulations at any price. Is the reform that urgent? In my view, if the question is whether or not the regulations need reforming, the answer is yes; but, on the other hand, if the question is whether the reform they need is that contained in the Commission’s proposal, then the answer is clearly no, because improvements in the operating mechanisms of the sector must not be achieved at the expense of precisely one of the sectors that receives least support in Community budgets. Since the details given in the report are not known, they cannot grab our attention. The fruit and vegetable sector accounts for an important share of final agricultural production of some 15%, while the financial effort is small and getting even smaller. Whereas, in 1995, it accounted for 5.3% of all spending under the EAGGF guarantee, in 1999 it was down to 3.6%. Added to this are two important details: first the importance of this sector for employment, and, secondly, the frequent concessions affecting the fruit and vegetable sector made under trade agreements with third countries. We do not intend to oppose these agreements or criticise them, because they are an exercise in solidarity with third-world and developing countries, but it does not seem sensible that the price of solidarity should be paid exclusively by a sector that has never been treated well in Community budgets. We are going to support Mr Jové Peres’s report without any hesitation. It is an excellent report – for which we congratulate the rapporteur – which provides a balanced reflection of the various interests and agreements involved. Its proposals, such as those that correct the most unfair aspects of the Commission’s proposal, may have favourable consequences. Our support will be unconditional and unqualified. Moreover, I give this support in the belief that the Council will be more sensitive than the Commission to the reasoned and reasonable proposals of the European Parliament. –  Mr President, it seems that the long road to creating a single regulation on the legal protection of designs, drawings and models in the European Union is nearing its end. The large amount of time spent on this regulation was justified on the grounds of the importance of adopting the directive on drawings and models, a job that took most of the previous legislature and part of the present one. It was clear that once the more serious problems relating to the text of the directive had been overcome – a directive that can be considered as balanced – the task of establishing a resolution would be far easier and so it has been. The whole process proves that Parliament was right to adopt the approach in creating the directive first, followed by the resolution. Its decision to intervene to obtain the freeze compromise in drawing up the resolution, with the directive being subject to the codecision procedure, was decisive. What is more, this perhaps would not have been the case had the procedure been the other way round, i.e. first the regulation followed by the directive. Had this been the case, Parliament’s role would not have been as decisive and the balance between car manufacturers’ interests on one hand and independent body part manufacturers on the other would not have been achieved. The same can be said of the interests of consumers and insurance companies. The fact that this agreement – which is far from perfect, but which provided a way out of the impasse in such a contentious issue – was reached, made the task of creating this regulation and this report on the Commission’s proposal far easier. This task basically involved incorporating the compromises reached in relation to the directive in the regulation. If the European Union intended to announce laws regarding the harmonisation of Member States’ legislation, it was only right that its own laws were in line with the laws on harmonisation. Since the Commission’s proposal followed the wording of the directive almost to the letter, it received our support. On this basis, the majority of the amendments we endorse consist precisely in enhancing the similarities between the directive and the regulation. I should like to thank Mr Ferri for his report and, at the same time, welcome the flexible approach he adopted throughout proceedings. The rapporteur’s first report did advocate certain proposals which, though he believed them to be correct, in the opinion –and I believe in the better informed opinion – of many groups in Parliament, contradicted the freeze compromise relating to the repair clause. However, by adopting this flexible approach, Mr Ferri saw fit to withdraw his proposals and I thank him for that. At present, there are only two areas on which the rapporteur and my group disagree. The first relates to the definition of the individual character of the design, which incorporates an element that supposedly brings it into line with the TRIP agreements. This is neither the time nor the place to begin a debate on this issue. We do not agree with this interpretation and would go as far to suggest that the amendment in question includes certain distortions. The second point of contention relates to copyright and we shall vote against the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. – During the previous question, we were discussing electoral issues. I believe that this issue is relevant to my question. Commissioner, you were not present at the extraordinarily named ‘official opening’ of the headquarters of the OHIM on 9 June, in the middle of an election campaign in Spain leading up to both the European elections and the local and regional elections. If you had been there, I am sure you would have been ashamed. The President of the Commission and some secretaries were present. In the middle of an election campaign, a series of authorities, all of them run by the party in government, made clearly electioneering speeches which, furthermore, were broadcast live on television. It was bizarre to see the President of the Region of Valencia praising the work of the Spanish Government, as well as his own work, although it was irrelevant to that event. The opening of a building which was not finished, in the middle of an election campaign, which eight months after the opening can still not be occupied, makes the Spanish Government look ridiculous. I am not worried that the Spanish Government should look foolish, because at the end of the day it was their responsibility, but it does worry me that the Commission should look foolish by endorsing, through its presence, this absurd event. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Commissioner: does it seem normal to you that an unfinished building should be opened during an election campaign? Does it seem normal to you that the Commission should attend such an absurd event organised by the Spanish Government? – Mr President, the opinion expressed by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on the European Constitution and the next Intergovernmental Conference takes a very positive view of the contributions made by the Convention in the field of its competences, and it has expressed this in a document approved virtually unanimously by its members. The Convention has certainly done good work and it must be congratulated on it. I would like to highlight three points, two positive and one not quite so positive. On the one hand, the consolidation, as an exclusive competence of the Union, of the common trade policy, which represents a step forward, and which, it must be said, will increase the participation of the European Parliament’s work in this field. Secondly, by consolidating the concept of the European Research Area, we will be able to tackle the deficiencies we Europeans have in this field. Perhaps our only complaint is the fact that the Convention has not decided to integrate the Euratom Treaty into the text of the Constitution, which means that, in this field, there will continue to be an intergovernmental approach, with all the problems that causes. –  Mr President, I am sure that we are all aware that piracy and counterfeiting constitute a very serious problem. Perhaps I do not need to point this out. There is clearly a risk that research, innovation, advertising investment, in short, innovation as a whole, will come to a standstill if industrial property rights are not adequately safeguarded. This is why these rights must be protected. There are certain factors that have exacerbated the current problem, perhaps the most important of which concerns the technical advances that have been made, which enable computing, audiovisual and phonographic material to be easily reproduced very cheaply. The available figures for forgeries in these areas are scandalous. What concerns us, then, is the impact that the completion of the internal market will have on the problem. In a Europe without borders, but having various legal systems, counterfeiters will obviously always choose the legal system that is the most beneficial to their own criminal ends. The Commission’s initiative in drafting the Green Paper is therefore praiseworthy, as it will initiate a debate to which all sectors concerned can make a contribution. We must remember that this debate will focus more on the contents of harmonisation than on harmonisation itself, since this harmonisation is the starting point that all parties have accepted. It may be premature for the European Parliament to enunciate its position on certain points, the precise content of which will emerge from the debate which is now beginning, but in some cases, it may be appropriate to establish this content. This applies, for example, to the issue of the right to information. It is precisely because we are aware of the problems encountered when introducing such a measure with regard to other laws in the past that we have to support the introduction of a law obliging vendors of illegal products to identify their supplier, as long as legislation on data protection and the constitutional right not to incriminate oneself are protected.   Lastly, we must express our support for certain technical mechanisms which facilitate the identification of goods. Now – and this is the basis of the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group – it must be stressed that this mechanism cannot and must not identify the distributors, because this could endanger parallel imports between Member States. We have tabled an amendment specifically in order to prevent these measures from being used for inappropriate ends. . Mr President, please allow me to remind you that this is a codecision procedure and that this Parliament is a co-legislating body. And perhaps you are not aware of this obvious fact because I am doubtful whether, in this case, the European Parliament has fulfilled its duties properly. I will explain. In December, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market voted for a text, which is not going to be approved today, but rather certain amendments are going to be approved which differ radically from what was voted for in that meeting of the committee. Why was there this disparity? Because what the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market voted for responds to the honourable Members’ will, while the ultimate paternity of the text we are going to approve today corresponds to the Council. Please do not imagine that what I am saying is in any way a criticism of the rapporteur; far from it. Mrs Fourtou has done good work trying to reconcile positions, but in the end she has been faced with an inflexible position on the part of the Council, which has said ‘if you want the Directive to be approved, you must approve what we say’. And since we are aware of the need to approve the Directive, what we have carried out – and Mrs Fourtou in particular – has been an exercise in responsibility. But sometimes we should ask ourselves whether we also impose this exercise in responsibility on the Council. There can be no doubt that this Directive is necessary, but nevertheless, it is doubtful whether the text approved will resolve the problems which have been raised. I believe it is no mistake to say that the text approved is going to be the laughing stock of commentators and is going to cause many difficulties for the Member States when it comes to incorporating it into their internal law. The Council’s desire to prevent the European Commission’s initiative from containing, for example, criminal law provisions, has created such confusion between civil sanctions, administrative procedures and administrative sanctions, that I cannot imagine what the Member States are going to do when it comes to applying it. We are clearly going to approve this text, but with great scepticism. At the same time, the Spanish Socialists at least are going to support certain amendments in order to reflect the fact that the Council, with the enforced cooperation of the European Parliament, has completely undermined what was originally a very good Commission initiative. –  Mr President, it seems that this time we are genuinely making progress and we are going to take an important step in solving one of the most flagrant anomalies that characterise the functioning of this House, by achieving something as simple as each and every Member being subject to the same system. It goes without saying that the text proposed by the rapporteur, Mr Rothley, whom I congratulate most sincerely, is a balanced text and naturally we are going to give it our full support. This fact, however, does not prevent me from making a few comments. In my country we say that military justice is to justice in general what military music is to music. There are times when I think that this Parliament is to a parliament what military music is to music. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, if in any parliament of any Member State you are subject to the rules to which we are subject in this Parliament or whether it would be acceptable for any parliament to be subject to the degree of control and monitoring – for example in areas as important as drawing up its own rules – to which we are subject with the intervention of the Council. This, therefore, is not acceptable. I understand that there is cause for debate here, such as the subject of tax, and I believe we could debate this within this House. What I would like, however, is for the result of this debate to be the final decision, rather than, regardless of what we decide here, always having to be subject to the will of a body, the Council, which, ultimately, is only partially legislative, and to the will of the governments of the Member States. – Mr President, I would like, in beginning my speech regarding the White Paper, to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr von Wogau. The fact that the Group of the Party of European Socialists is very much in agreement with your report is clearly demonstrated by the fact that only one amendment has been presented during this procedure. We are, therefore, in agreement with the report, Commissioner, as well as the broad outlines of the White Paper. Since the Treaty entered into force, Community law on competition has been one of the tenets of Community policy. After almost forty years of being in force, these rules were beginning to show signs of exhaustion. For this reason, modernisation was essential. That modernisation came to be particularly necessary for five reasons. Firstly, the authorisation system; secondly, decentralised application; thirdly, procedural rules; fourthly, judicial application; and fifthly and finally, excessive red tape. The system of individual approvals needed urgent reform, as was unanimously requested by specialised companies, academics and lawyers. I have not attended a single forum of specialists in competition law which has not requested a change to the system. A system, such as the current one, which is capable of making so few decisions, be they approvals or prohibitions, is something less than a valid system. National competition authorities were able to apply Articles 81(1) and 82 for some time. However, they could not apply Article 81(3), which, to a certain extent, prevented the coherent application of Article 81(1). You will know that there are currently two preliminary issues before the Court of Justice, both brought by German courts, which question the feasibility of applying 81(1) without being able to apply 81(3). A reform of this point was therefore also necessary. The procedure in the field of competition is basically contained in Regulation 1762. The voices in favour of its amendment were unanimous. The fact that it did not establish a genuine procedure, that it did not establish time limits, that it did not regulate access for interested parties to the files, or that the right to defence was not properly recognised, were factors which led to the unanimous demand for reform. The Court of Justice accepted some time ago that Community competition law could be applied by the legal bodies of the Member States and in 1994, the Commission published a communication on this subject. It was therefore necessary to facilitate this approach. One of the most frequent criticisms of Community competition law is its excessive red tape. As a consequence of the continental legal tradition, consideration of whether certain agreements are anti-competitive or not depends more on an analysis of their clauses than on their effects on the market. It was therefore necessary to introduce an economic analysis. The White Paper intends to resolve these problems and we therefore support these proposals. It is also true that we note certain deficiencies which have come to light in the report. Amongst these, firstly, is the fact that, despite trying to modernise Articles 81 and 82, Article 81 and not Article 82 carries exclusive weight. At the moment, with inter-company agreements and the privatisation of monopolies preserving dominant positions and even consolidating them, the combating of abusive conduct is becoming particularly important. Secondly, Regulation 1762 must be repealed and replaced with a new regulation. For these reasons, we are going to vote in favour of the report. However, if some of the amendments are accepted, particularly those presented by the PPE-DE Group, we would consider the report to be stripped of its value and to have become an inconsistent document, lacking in rigour and, in that event, we would reconsider our support. – Thank you for your information, Commissioner. I am obviously referring to the case of Spain, since I clearly do not have sufficient knowledge of the cases of Italy and Luxembourg. On 13 December 2000 the Commissioner responded to me in saying that, in the case where there was no satisfactory response, the Commission would open an infringement procedure in accordance with Article 226 of the Treaty. Today you have told us that the Commission has no news of these three countries including Spain which, to make matters worse, is the location of the headquarters of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market, having begun any procedure to create what they committed themselves to, and that they have been non-compliant since November 1996. If this is the case, if it was already taking place a year ago, if there has been no satisfactory response for almost a year, why is the Commission waiting to begin the infringement procedure? – Mr President, Commissioner, any consideration of this communication by the Commission which we are discussing today should take into account the fact that it is a document which is being presented at the same time that the new Commission is starting its work. This consideration obliges us to highlight its positive aspects and, to a certain extent, avoid any negative comment. It would be unjust, therefore, to describe the document as unambitious, but it would nevertheless have been justifiable to level this criticism at the document if it had been carried out by a Commission which had been in action for longer. This situation cannot hide the fact however that this is really simply a document of intentions, which we take note of. Meanwhile, we will wait to see whether these intentions become concrete measures, commitments which involve a time scale for their implementation. Then, and only then will we be able to make a more accurate judgement of the Commission’s intentions. Amongst the aspects which warrant our special approval, is that of protecting consumer interests. If anybody should benefit from the construction of the internal market, it is the consumer, that is, all of the citizens. And in this respect, Commissioner, there is a phrase in the communication which worries us. It says literally that “a more intense trade in goods and services between the Member States could lead to additional risks to the consumer”. This phrase raises the question of the view of consumer protection as an inevitable requirement to impede the free movement of goods, within the meaning of the judgement on Dassonville, Cassis de Dijon etc. In other words it leads us to the principle of mutual recognition, which seems to be very dear to Mr Bolkestein. I would like my position to be very clear. Mutual recognition is a principle which was important in preventing barriers to the free movement of goods, but it is only partially valid for the construction of the internal market in the absence of harmonised legislation. In order to move forward with the internal market, it will be necessary to insist on the principle of harmonisation. Once legislation in the field of consumer protection is harmonised, I would not be in a position to make such a statement. . –  Mr President, we have now reached the home straight in a Commission initiative – I would call it a good Commission initiative – designed to achieve harmonisation of legislation on insurance mediation. This is a field which so far had not been harmonised. This gap will now be filled and fortunately, I believe, for the better, because the internal market in insurance is crippled if there are no common rules for the commercial networks. If the insurance companies can act within Union territory without any borders, it is clearly also necessary that those who offer their products should be able to act under common rules, with freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services, once and for all in the internal market. That, however, is not all that is needed: we must also harmonise our laws to achieve high standards of consumer protection in an area such as this, where there is a highly significant imbalance between the information held by the vendors of the products and that held by the purchasers. This is one of the objectives in this proposal for a directive. At first reading, Parliament adopted a total of 40 amendments, some admittedly by a tiny majority. In the common position, just over half were accepted either as they stood or at least in spirit. Now, at second reading, Parliament has repeated some of the amendments that were not adopted, although it has done so in terms which I think make their approval by the other institutions likely. While on this subject, I should like to reflect a little on the codecision procedure, and this makes me think that, if this procedure is generalised, it cannot and must not lead to proceedings becoming unnecessarily lengthy or, if the co-legislating institutions start from different positions, to each one sticking to its own position without coming to any reasonable agreement. If this agreement can be reached without going into the conciliation phase, so much the better and, if so, that is an objective I believe can be achieved in the processing of this directive, because Parliament has shown how it can play a full part in the legislative process by collaborating with other institutions, without the legislative procedure becoming unnecessarily lengthy because of it. The procedure, however, also has its problems, and perhaps the most important of them is the debating system in this Parliament. In contrast to what occurs in other parliaments, here we do not debate proposals in a contradictory fashion. Therefore it seems that any effort one may make to try to convince you that certain amendments are good or bad is a wasted effort. Even so, I cannot help at least trying to put across my reasons for opposing or proposing a vote against certain of the amendments that have been adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. I hope it will not be a wasted effort, because a thinker from my country used to say that wasted effort leads to melancholy, and at this time of night I do not want to get melancholic. I oppose adoption of Amendments 2 and 14 approved in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, and I am opposed more strongly than I can tell you to the content of Amendment 2, for various reasons. First, on technical grounds: the amendment tries to exclude from harmonisation certain possibilities that, if approved, would contradict other points in the directive. Other points, ladies and gentlemen, that were approved in the text and accepted by the Council and Commission as a consequence of this Parliament’s amendments at first reading. How are we going to adopt this amendment if it conflicts with our own texts? Secondly, but no less importantly: if, as Amendment 2 would have it, certain types of intermediary are to be excluded from harmonisation, this means, no less, that a large part of the sale of insurance contracts would fall outside the consumer protection mechanisms contained in the directive, and this should not be accepted. – Madam President, Mrs Díez González and I had tabled questions on certain opinions of the Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, which appeared in a Spanish newspaper. The competent services have not included them in the agenda on the grounds that they had been answered in a previous part-session. I would ask that they reconsider, since this is not the case. The questions answered previously referred to Mrs de Palacio’s intervention, on another occasion, and not to these comments which appeared in the ABC newspaper on 18 November. – Madam President, Mrs Lucas was right when she said that this is not the time to look to the past, but rather we must look to the future under all circumstances. It is true that, following the failure of Cancún, this is the right time to consider the dangers facing us now. The first, and I am saying nothing new, is to dedicate ourselves to saving multilateralism within commercial relations. We must be careful when we say that we must reform the World Trade Organisation. We must say how we want to reform it, because we must not think of reforming the World Trade Organisation in such a way that it begins to function like its predecessor, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), which, at the end of the day, made decisions in accordance with the wishes of certain commercial giants, without taking account of the importance of other countries. Also, when we say that ‘we are going to reform the World Trade Organisation’, are we as Europeans going to accept a reform in which the European Union has no right to veto, or is the United States going to accept that type of reform? The World Trade Organisation therefore functions with all the problems we know about, but, at the end of the day, it is the best instrument we have for international trade. Secondly, I would like to stress the importance of the birth of the Group of 21, which we wrongly believed was going to be dissolved like a sugar lump in water. I do not believe that we should attack that Group of 21, but rather sit down with them, accepting what they are, a giant like us, which represents more than half the world’s population and their specific weight must clearly not be underestimated. Finally, we must act in a balanced and coherent fashion. Commissioner Lamy is right when he tells us that it is one thing to make declarations and quite another to take decisions which affect thousands of millions of citizens. It is true that we must reconcile solidarity with some of our least-favoured sectors, such as the rural population or certain types of production, with solidarity with the least favoured countries. We cannot say that we are going to adopt one line while forgetting the other, because, until we are capable of finding that balance, it will be difficult for us to continue making progress. . – Mr President, I do not know whether the procedure would be appropriate, but in Amendment No 3, relating to paragraph 5 of Article 8, there has been an error on presentation. If we take account of the justification for the amendment, which is aimed at increasing legal certainty and protection of holders of earlier trade marks or geographical indications, on drawing up the text, earlier trade marks have been mentioned on five occasions and on only one occasion are earlier Community geographical indications mentioned. I would therefore like, if possible, to introduce an oral amendment now, to the effect that each time the text of this Amendment No 3 mentions an earlier trade mark, it is followed by ‘or Community geographical indication’, because that was the purpose of the amendment, but for some mysterious reason, caused by printing gremlins or I am not sure who, Mr President, it has not been included. –  Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for joining us for this debate on the problems in the textile and clothing industry. There is no doubt that this debate is taking place, among other reasons, because of the Commission’s communication on the textile industry in the context of an enlarged Europe, for which I want to thank the Commission. The communication proposes a whole range of measures to assist the sector in its efforts to define a strategy in view of the new market challenges and, in particular, in view of the end of import quotas from 1 January 2005. Some recent and imminent events, such as China joining the WTO and the elimination of quotas and duties for certain products, are forcing the industry to take steps to resolve problems rapidly. In my opinion, some of the measures proposed in the communication are urgently needed. Firstly, it is important to have both Community and national policies that encourage SMEs to invest directly in research and development activities, and in innovation, as an essential means of incorporating new production processes, of encouraging creativity and fashion, and as a result, increasing the sector’s ability to compete on the global market. I have to say that such matters merit consideration. A short while ago, Commissioner Busquin talked to me about these initiatives – initiatives such as creating support offices for SMEs to help them obtain intellectual property rights protection for brand names, designs and patents. Secondly, I would say that we need to obtain agreements within the WTO whereby certain countries which are our rivals or which have zero duty access to our markets, or at least very low levels of duty, are required to reduce their current high duty levels as an essential part of trade liberalisation. Finally, it is very important that the Commission implement the proposed measures on protecting intellectual property rights. Third countries must respect these rights, and it is also essential that we monitor compliance with the APIC agreements, if we are to combat piracy and counterfeiting. I do hope that the rapid approval of the Directive on enforcing intellectual property rights, and the revision of the customs regulation, will become key instruments in protecting this industrial property which is so important for so many sectors, including textiles. –  Madam President, as you all know, it is becoming the norm in this Parliament to start speeches with a phrase which, as a result of being repeated so often, has become a commonplace. This phrase consists of congratulating the rapporteur on the report they have drawn up. I would not like my congratulations to Mr Gasòliba i Böhm, in this case, to imply that I am simply observing a Parliamentary formality. I wish to congratulate Mr Gasòliba i Böhm in particular, not only on the content of his report but also, above all, on his good choice of issues. Parliaments sometimes earn prestige not only by what is said within their walls but also by their choice of issues for debate: if these are topical and affect the citizens, they serve to bring the citizens and their political representatives closer together. Like Mr Karas, I also wish to thank the rapporteur for his flexibility towards the positions of the other groups. The introduction of the euro is one of the most significant milestones in the process of European integration. Having a single currency represents a huge step towards achieving European unity, not only in economic terms, but also, I would say, in political terms. The Eurosceptics are right to fear the single currency, because no one can question the fact that participating in a common currency involves the greatest possible degree of integration. We should not, therefore, think that the introduction of the euro has been important only in the economic field. It is true that the euro has enjoyed considerable success in the field of foreign trade: around one third of trade with third countries takes place in this currency. Furthermore, as we Europeans continue to use the same currency, we will start to feel more united with one another. For this very reason, it is the political and human dimension of the euro’s introduction that we should be worrying about – the ‘micro’ effects of the new currency. Concern about these effects, which citizens sometimes see as negative, obliges us to remedy them, inasmuch as we can, or, when this perception is not borne out by objective causes, to try to convince the public that its opinion does not match the reality. This success cannot conceal the fact that there have been problems in introducing new notes and coins. Blame for this must be laid at the door of the Commission, the governments and European Central Bank; there may still be some issues that make citizens feel that some problems are the result of the euro’s introduction. The success of the euro’s introduction cannot conceal some of its effects, which have damaged public opinion. In this context, the citizens’ perception is perhaps that the euro has played a major role in increasing inflation and in raising prices. The reality, however, is that, according to objective data, the euro has had much less influence than the citizens perceive to be the case. There is some basis for this perception because the so-called ‘rounding-up effect’ has had a fundamental impact on consumers’ shopping baskets and other essential goods, and on certain services. The necessary steps must, therefore, be taken to prevent this perception, which can have such damaging effects. Finally, the last thing I would wish to do is interfere in the internal debate of those countries that have not yet decided whether to join the Eurozone. I must remain on the sidelines of this internal debate but whilst remaining on the sidelines, I can still express the desire for them to join our common currency zone as soon as possible. – Mr President, since another member of my Group has given up his speaking time, I believe that I have accumulated additional time. In any event, I will not use it up. Mr President, Mr Evans – whom I congratulate on his report – was absolutely right when he said that this is a very important issue, although it is also true that questions relating to the reform procedure in the field of competition do not inspire interest amongst the citizens, despite their importance for the economic world. However, personally, I must confess that, for me, to participate in the reform of the rules on the procedure in the field of competition gives me particular personal satisfaction. Because to participate, although in a very modest way, in the process of repealing Regulation 17 of 1962, against which I have fought a long-standing battle and on which I have written repeatedly in a very critical manner, is, I must confess, hugely gratifying. But at the burial of this regulation, and may it be well buried, which I have always seen as wretched, perhaps at this time, with due respect for the dead, we should a pay slightly fairer tribute by recognising what has been good about it historically. Regulation 17 made some sense at the time it was approved, that is, in 1962, when the application of Community competition law was being born, which could justify a centralisation of the powers of the Commission, in a Community of seven countries with less than 200 million inhabitants. But the problem with Regulation 17 was not its creation or the rules it established at the time of its creation. The problem has been its maintenance for almost forty years, during which conditions had changed radically. Anybody who had contact with the Commission’s procedures in the field of competition was aware of the dissatisfaction caused by its application. Finally – and fortunately – the Commission has opted to yield to the evidence and promote the derogation of this Regulation, replacing it with a more up-to-date regulation, in line with the views of the White Paper on the modernisation of the Community rules in the field of competition. In the report produced on the White Paper, this Parliament had the opportunity to express its favourable opinion, although with some fine-tuning in certain cases. This fine-tuning was perhaps related to the reticence of certain members of certain countries which had had a decisive influence on the creation of their national system and a fundamental influence on the Regulation of the procedure. Of course, I did not feel this reticence. I believe that the new approaches in the field of Community competition law not only constitute an enormous effort to modernise that Community law but also an effort in the right direction. Today we are being presented with a legislative text which, to a large extent, responds to what had been anticipated in the White Paper. And it also, to a certain extent, takes up some of the observations made at the time by this Parliament. It is the case that in some respects the proposed regulation has surprised us with extremes which had not been laid out in the White Paper. I am referring specifically to the provision of Article 7 on the possibility of adopting structural measures as a result of a decision on a case of prohibited conduct. This consists, no more and no less, of adopting measures such as the splitting up of companies, particularly of those which have abused their dominant position. As you know, these measures are normal in United States law. Hence the Microsoft case and the famous case of the seven sisters, the splitting up of the Rockefeller oil company, possibilities which are enormously innovative within European law. I personally support this measure unreservedly; and the fine-tuning which has been introduced by means of amendments in this Parliament are simply a demonstration of a desire that this power be used prudently, as I am sure the Commission is going to do. Perhaps it is the case that in other respects the Commission’s proposal is not fully in line with what was approved at the time by the European Parliament. Specifically, at the time this Parliament favoured a genuine procedural regulation which would regulate the logical principles of any judicial regulation, even if it was simply by incorporating the customs which the Directorate-General for Competition had introduced over almost forty years. In this regard, the Commission’s proposal has been more timid than in other respects, but, in any event, if the amendments contained in the Evans report are adopted, or those still maintained by this parliamentary Group, this shortcoming may be corrected. There are other points on which perhaps our satisfaction is not complete. It is true that there is no single standard in the field of the guarantees of process or rights to defence. But those of us who come from a country where the same principles are applied to administrative penalty procedures, with a constitutional guarantee, as to the criminal procedure, and the same rights are granted to physical persons as to legal persons, would have liked this standard, this level of guarantees, to have been raised in accordance with the amendments approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs, which have not been incorporated into the text. However, at the end of the day, in my country we say that ‘the best is the enemy of the good’ and there is absolutely no doubt that this is a good regulation which we are supporting. – Mr President, the Commission’s initiative on presenting this regulation intended to unify the principles for recording taxes and social contributions is very appropriate. In order for the accounting methods of the different Member States to be homogenous, as the rapporteur has pointed out, they must use the same criteria. It is true that, in accounting terms, both the cash receipt criterion and the income criterion can be allowed, but it is also true that the former allows for less juggling of the figures intended to distort the true accounts situation of a country. In short, the cash receipt criterion makes it more difficult to indulge in that accounting trickery which used to be known euphemistically as ‘creative accounting’. It is true that the use of those systems has allowed, for example, certain countries to fulfil the Maastricht criteria, but it is also true that their abuse can distort the picture of a country’s true accounts. As you know, accounts which do not offer a true picture can be called anything but accounts. The income criterion, if it is not corrected, for example, by means of the obligation to make provision for non-payment, is an inadequate criterion. The rapporteur mentioned a debate which occurred in Spain which, in short, resulted from the government claiming ESP 750 000 million in 1997 as social security income, which was theoretically owed but which was clearly never going to be collected. Thanks to this manipulation of the accounts, to this ‘creative accounting’, the deficit criteria for joining the first phase of economic and monetary union were complied with. Obviously, this juggling of accounts will not be possible if the Commission’s proposal is approved. It is perhaps for this reason that the Spanish Members from the PPE Group have presented certain amendments and have tried to delay the approval of this report. It is not a question of revising now what was done in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, what is done is done. It is a question of demanding, from now on, greater rigour; it is a question of demanding that accounting figures reflect the true picture of a country’s accounts. We therefore approve of the Commission’s proposal but we do not approve the PPE’s proposal, which is intended to delay the entry into force of this regulation, or the amendments of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which, since it considers that the regulation amounts to an amendment rather than a mere clarification, in reality delays its entry into force. Ladies and gentlemen, if rigour in accounting is demanded, it should be so from the outset. – Mr President, once again the European Parliament must express its opinion on the Commission communication on the construction of the internal market, in this case, a new version of it. A proportion of its content affects the competences of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. It is these points which I wish to discuss specifically. Firstly, I would like to say that, in general, one of the criticisms levelled at previous versions of this documents no longer applies. The European Parliament’s resolution of 4 November 1999 said that the document was rather unspecific, that it did not contain specific actions. This new version does contain specific measures and proposals. Let us then analyse the content of these proposals, albeit in general terms. With regard to taxation, the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is that the Communication is not ambitious enough, especially when compared to previous documents. We are aware of the stumbling blocks encountered in relation to the tax package and that some of its chapters have been blocked, but in situations such as this large doses of political courage are necessary to push proposals forward. We notice a lack of such political courage in this document since the chapter on tax simply reproduces previous Commission commitments, and even leaves aside some of the European Parliament’s proposals. Secondly, in relation to the rules on competition, the Communication opts for deepening the process of reform underway, and this deserves our support. Finally, in the chapter on financial services, it should be highlighted that up to now important progress has been made but, as indicated in the recent single market scoreboard, there is still a lot to be done. – Mr President, I shall speak in the form of a question, so that the presidency will not object, with good reason, as it always does. Madam President-in-Office of the Council, the truth is that I do not understand the reasons why you do not clarify this point which is still outstanding, because I do not actually understand what that point may be. At the time, in the regulation on designs and models, when it came to the directive, certain points were controversial, for example the reparation clause, but once, with the very direct participation of the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council, a compromise was reached on that clause, which has been reflected in the Commission’s proposal and accepted as such by the European Parliament I do not understand what the controversial point can be. Neither do I understand, as has been said, why there may be other controversial points which, at the time, delayed the approval of the Regulation on markings, such as those relating to language, procedure or the location of the office for the harmonisation of the internal market, because that was resolved with the Regulation on markings. And now, as regards this proposed regulation on design, the procedure rules, the procedure languages and the competence of the office for harmonisation of the internal markets are issues which have already been resolved. I therefore do not understand what that point is and, despite your invitation, I would be grateful if you could clarify it. . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Council Regulation (EC) 994/98 contains the provision that the Commission should approve regulations on block exemption which exempt certain aid from the obligation to notify the Commission, employing a technique already used successfully in the field of anti-competitive behaviour. So far, the Commission has approved the Regulations on SMEs, training and minimums, and now it is proposing a Regulation on employment aid. I would like to start by making a series of observations. Firstly, that the proposal we are currently analysing, although it is not being modified, improves the existing system. There is currently no regulation on block exemption in this field and the guidelines on this type of aid are based on a series of diverse communications which are not regulatory. The fact that certain aid with clear criteria is being exempted from the obligation to notify, although those criteria may be insufficient, represents considerable progress in terms of transparency and legal certainty, which we must not fail to recognise. Secondly, I would like to insist that this does not mean that aid without the characteristics included in the Regulation will be considered illegal. Not at all. All it implies is that such aid will have to be subject to notification, in order to analyse whether or not it contradicts the objectives of the Treaty. And we must not forget that these objectives do not just include maintaining a system in which competition is not distorted, but also the promotion of employment. Thirdly, certain possible scenarios should be stipulated in order prevent the administrations who grant the aid – particularly the regional authorities in the case of Spain and also in other Member States – from being subject to long procedures involving notification when granting aid aimed at promoting employment, especially in sectors in which workers are most affected by unemployment. To this end, and in line with the objectives of the Lisbon strategy, we must propose support for the transformation of employment contracts into permanent contracts and greater flexibility in defining the different groups of workers who will benefit, as well as adapting them to the particular characteristics of each region, and the inclusion amongst the exempted aid of aid aimed at promoting the employment of women and, finally, extending the age range, so that young workers – or those who are in the final stage of their working life – can benefit from aid without the need for modification. All these criteria, included in Amendment No 1 from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, are aimed directly at promoting employment in the least-favoured sectors, and their inclusion in the Regulation in no way distorts competition. The comparison of the anti-competitive effects of this aid with other types of aid, if we analyse it soberly, is something of an insult to the intelligence. We are not going to get into a debate here on public aid and its effects on competition, but, if there is any public aid worthy of being seen as compatible with the objectives of the Treaty, then that is the aid aimed at promoting employment. It would not be good to give the European citizens and workers the impression that the Commission shows signs of flexibility when allowing other types of aid, while being extraordinarily strict when it comes to employment aid. Furthermore, it would be appropriate to include the social economy sector – in a general sense – as an exempt sector. As all the honourable Members know, social economy companies provide a significant cushion in terms of maintaining employment when there is crisis in a sector, and that reality should be reflected in the Regulation. Finally, in the report adopted certain paragraphs have been introduced in relation to the preference for employment flexibility measures over aid for the promotion of employment. I am not going to get involved in refuting this idea, which – like all ideas expressed in such emphatic terms – reflects a rigid and distinctly conservative approach, which I cannot agree with. But, quite simply, the honourable Members will have to recognise that whatever the ideological position they hold, this is a strange and extravagant idea at this time, which should not appear in the report, since it relates to other issues. To insist on it would imply an excessive interest in sending messages in favour of a certain action, which cannot be shared by important sectors, both in Parliament and in European society. – Madam President, the truth, and we have seen proof of it, is that it is often said by conservative politicians that we Socialists are opposed to the process of liberalisation. Nothing could be further from the truth. We fully accept a process which contains of good number of progressive perspectives. One of them is that, when a sector is liberalised, the greater the number of companies amongst which the market is distributed, the more the concentration of economic power is being limited, and this is a progressive objective which these benches fully accept. We cannot agree with monopolies which offer goods and services of lower quality and at higher prices than if they were offered within a competitive system. But, while public monopolies are unsatisfactory, private ones are totally unacceptable and unbearable. We therefore believe that services must be provided within a competitive system, but that that system must be subject to corrections in order to prevent a situation where the only people who have access to the services are those who, as a result of their levels of income or place of residence, are viable for the providers of the service, leaving out those who cannot pay the price for the services however basic they may be, or those who live in areas which are not viable for companies. It is therefore necessary to impose universal service obligations, but naturally the discussion on the size and conditions of the universal service will have a high ideological content. The Right insists, and always in defence of companies, that these universal service obligations should be as limited as possible. The progressives must insist that the greatest number of services must reach all the citizens at accessible prices. These considerations are reflected in this report. Its rapporteur, Mr Harbour, has done a magnificent job, but I must not forget that he is a member of a political group whose positions seem more orientated towards defending the interests of companies than towards the operation of the market. That is to say that, to use the American terminology, he belongs to a political group which is more ‘pro-business’ than ‘pro-market’. It is true that the report has positive aspects, and we are going to support those positive aspects without any doubt, but in other respects, it contains proposals which we find unacceptable. To remove the reference, as in Amendment No 2 of the report, to the concern about the dominant position which the former monopolies maintain within liberalisation processes, seems unacceptable to us; to remove the Commission’s phrase that lays done that services must be provided at an accessible price, does not seem acceptable. Neither does it seem to us acceptable to vote against, as happened in committee and which has been said will happen now, certain amendments which propose, for example, that a change in telephone service provider should not mean a change in the customer’s number and that, if it does happen, it should be done without cost to the user and at a more than accessible cost. It seems as though, in these respects, the desire is to hinder competition and the appearance of new economic operators, in other words to defend the interests of monopolies and that is something we cannot agree with. – Mr President, it seems that we are finally at the end of the road on the proposal for a directive which will regulate takeover bids. It is a proposal that has gone down a long and, I fear, stormy road in order to overcome some of the existing problems. It is true that there have been many problems. It is also true that the political agreement obtained in the Council last year enabled some of them to be resolved. I will therefore offer a few thoughts on the function of Parliament: in a codecision procedure, in which a political agreement has been reached on a complex matter, what should be the role of the European Parliament? Should our role be limited to saying “Amen” to the Council’s proposals? I do not think this should be the case, ladies and gentlemen. By this I do not mean that, once that agreement has been obtained in the Council, Parliament should decide to blow it out of the water. Ladies and gentlemen, we are politicians and therefore, we are always in favour of reaching political agreements. These thoughts are fully applicable to this report. The Council has reached an agreement that should be respected on its main points, as the rapporteur, Mr Lehne, has done in his magnificent report, on which I sincerely congratulate him. And I congratulate him not only on respecting the main points of that agreement, but also on seeking formulae which – and I stress, while respecting the main points – try to improve the legislative proposal. This is, in my understanding, the role of a colegislative institution such as Parliament in the codecision procedure. The amendments that our Committee is tabling can be grouped into three blocks. In the first block are a series of technical amendments that aim to either clarify concepts or fill gaps. I am not going to dwell on them. In the second block are a series of amendments that aim to improve the participation of workers when there is a takeover bid. We cannot close our eyes to reality: when there is a takeover there is staff restructuring, redundancies and so on, in short, measures which affect jobs. It is therefore important that workers and their representatives should be informed, from the start, of what is being planned and that they can make their voice heard in the actual takeover procedure. The third block contains those amendments that have been most controversial during the procedure. And I would like to have the power of conviction to prevent you from having any fears about the consequences that could be deduced from the approval of those amendments. It is true that the European Parliament Rules of Procedure do not make this easy, making these debates into a pure and simple dialogue between the deaf. What can we do? The first amendment refers to Article 4, which establishes what will be the competent authority for supervising the bid. In paragraph 1 it is established that it will be that of the Member State in which the company concerned has its headquarters, if – logically – its securities are admitted to trading in that Member State. What happens if they are not admitted to trading in that Member State? An answer is proposed that does not appear to be compatible with another amendment tabled by other Members, undoubtedly in good faith, requiring the criterion of headquarters. Because if the securities are not traded there, why should they be supervised by that authority? The second controversial amendment refers to the duty of neutrality. Here we met with very conflicting and even opposed positions, and a formula has been reached that permits some exceptional hypotheses in order to carry out some defensive manoeuvres when it is not possible to call a general meeting. My Group and I are going to support these amendments. –  Mr President, the truth is that with this report and a few opinions something has occurred that reveals how complicated it can be to legislate or even just deal with reports in this Parliament. I drew up an opinion within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs which in principle was linked to this report, but it ended up referring to a different report on the SLIM project. Regardless of the reasons that may have caused this mistake, it is certain that it is motivated by the constant initiatives, originating in the Commission, that are carried out with regard to legislation. The Commission is aware of the inadequacies of Community legislation and so continually issues documents saying that we have to legislate better or we have to simplify the legislation. I referred to this in the report on the SLIM project, because Community legislation – and Mr Medina has just proved it by reading out one of the articles of the Treaty – is difficult to understand, even for the experts. Mr President, any of the observations I made about the SLIM report could equally apply here. And I say this from within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which is the one most concerned about the proliferation of legislation and the lack of clarity in these texts. Yet the little confidence we may have in the improvement of legislation does not lead us to the same interpretation of the principle of subsidiarity that the People’s Party on the right of this House has reached. If we took this line of reasoning to the extreme, we could ask the Community not to do whatever the Member State can do. Coming down from this, we have just heard Mr Mauro support the idea that the family should do everything, that the municipalities should do everything, and any kind of administration should disappear. This would be anarchy, an idea that we, of course, do not share. – Mr President, this is a political chamber and I believe that as a political chamber the first question we should consider, as should the Commission, is why this proposal has caused so much commotion and so much reaction. It is not fair to discredit any person not agreeing with it and to say that there has been aggressive opposition on the part of lobby groups. Because, at least on the part of those who have been in contact with me, university teachers of information technology, experts in patents and industrial property and also representatives of small businesses, what I have heard, rather than aggression, has been concern; concern at the way things are progressing and the danger being faced in terms of the possibilities for inventions. The people who advocate this initiative tell us that the only intention is to unify practice on the part of the national patent offices, in a field in which there have recently been contradictory resolutions. And that is true; what is not true, or at least what is not certain, and please allow us to accept this intellectual doubt at least, Commissioner, is that this proposal for a Directive is going to resolve the problems which the intention is apparently to resolve. Because it is very easy to do so, the practice of the European Patent Office, in a break with what was the traditional approach of European law, has tended towards a practice very similar to that in United States law. All the honourable Members know, all the experts know, that European law demands that an invention must be of an industrial nature if it is to be patentable, which means that not only must the method be industrial, but also the result of the product must be industrial, while in US law it is sufficient for it to have a useful application. This has allowed certain innovations and certain patents of software programs. We therefore insist on this point. It makes no sense to say that with the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and the Commission's proposal these problems are resolved, because they are resolved by means of the amendments approved in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport and in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. Therefore, if the amendments such as those proposed by the Committee on Industry and the Committee on Culture are not approved, it will be very difficult for us to support this proposal. – Mr President, those of you who know me will be aware that I do not usually speak in favour of public aid which distorts competition. That does not mean that I do not recognise that some of this public aid makes sense and must continue if it contributes to the objectives laid down in the Treaty. Despite this, and precisely because this is one of those cases, I would like to express my total support for the Commission’s proposal and the amendments presented by the competent committees, which propose a defensive and temporary mechanism in the ship-building sector in order to confront the unfair practices of South Korea. In this section, there is no room for solutions such as that proposed by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, which, by taking an extremely orthodox position in opposition to public aid, would have disastrous consequences for the European shipbuilding sector. There is absolutely no doubt that the Republic of Korea is practising dumping in the sector, and for this reason the European industry cannot compete. It is true that the Commission has begun proceedings before the World Trade Organisation to combat this unfair competition, but it is also the case that, while this procedure is under way, the European ship-building industry could disappear, with significant repercussions for employment. We must bear in mind that there are two elements to this aid which make it worthy of support: firstly, it is transitional, it will only be granted until the WTO resolves the dispute in question, and secondly, it is defensive, it is a response to aggressive unfair competition by the Republic of Korea, and for these reasons it is perfectly acceptable. Furthermore, the amendments approved by the competent committee are acceptable, since they include certain types of ship which are also affected by these unfair practices on the part of Korea. The rapporteur has been informed of the existence of a possible legal report by the services of the Council which opposes these measures proposed by the Commission. While we do not know what these legal arguments are, we must be content with the legal reports of both the European Parliament and the Commission, which speak of the suitability of the aid as proposed by the Commission, which is neither substantially distorted nor modified by the proposals which have been approved in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. . – Mr President, about two years ago a conference was held in Brussels to mark the tenth anniversary of Council Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89 on the control of concentrations between undertakings. During the conference, all the speakers spoke unanimously in favour of the virtues of this Regulation, which is somewhat unusual for expert opinions. I agree with these opinions and with this positive assessment. In putting forward the proposal to amend the Regulation, however, there is one opinion that must be pointed out from the start. The positive assessment of the Regulation does not prevent suggestions being made with regard to partially reforming it or adapting it to the requirements brought to light by experience, but, in any case, these reforms will be limited. The text of Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89 itself stipulates that certain aspects should be reviewed ten years after its entry into force. Now that this period is over, the Commission has issued a Green Paper suggesting that not only the points laid down in the Regulation, but also those allowing the text to be updated, should be analysed. This is a very positive initiative on which the Commission should be congratulated. Perhaps the most important points of this Green Paper concern the definition of the thresholds at which concentrations are considered to have a Community dimension and, secondly, the hypotheses whereby a concentration notified to the Commission could be referred to the national authority or authorities for analysis and a decision and, vice versa, whereby a concentration notified to the national authorities could also be referred to the Commission. In the first of these sections, the Commission suggests that the concentration should have a Community dimension if it needs to be notified in three or more countries, thus eliminating the complicated procedural rules contained in section 1 of Article 3 of the Regulation. Certain national competition authorities have protested against the amendment of this section, or its replacement by criteria other than those of the Commission. We cannot agree with these objections. The rule on the automatic assigning of competences proposed by the Commission allows for greater clarity and simplicity, promotes uniform assessment criteria, increases legal certainty and saves companies money. We therefore support it wholeheartedly. The second of these sections, regarding the referral of cases, is more complex, and the European Parliament and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs have therefore made some suggestions. The first concerns the suitability of parties consenting to the referral of the case by the European Commission to one or more national authorities. If joint handling is considered more effective and saves companies money, it appears that, under the referral process, companies cannot be obliged to submit different cases against their will. In another section, the European Parliament warns the Commission of the problem caused by this referral process when the final decision rests with the political authorities and not with independent authorities. Account should be taken of the fact that in several Member States, the decision is taken by a political authority, such as in my country, for example, where the Government takes this decision. The criteria according to which concentrations are approved or rejected may therefore differ from the criteria used to analyse the effect on competition and its potential efficiency. In an interview published in the Spanish press recently, Commissioner Monti emphasised the pressure that Governments apply in competition cases. It is not hard to guess what the position of these Governments would be if they were the ones taking the decision. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has tabled two amendments: the first concerns the need for the efficiencies that could counter the ill effects of a concentration on competition to include the maintenance or creation of employment. In fact, this is a version of the failing company defence principle, which has already been applied by the Commission and which we believe would improve the report if reflected in the text. I also believe the report would be improved by the content of the second amendment, which asks that, in concentration cases, not only competitors, but also consumers, and, where appropriate, representatives of the workers concerned, be considered as interested parties. – Mr President, as some speakers have already indicated – and I congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Moreira Da Silva, on his report – in a tragic coincidence with this debate, nature has decided to remind us of the consequences of climate change. In the north of Italy and also in my own area – the Mediterranean coast of Spain – the forces of nature have once again unleashed themselves, leading to loss of life and the loss of possessions, in homes, factories and so forth. On our coast, on the Spanish Mediterranean coast, this is the product of a phenomenon known as  (cold front), caused by the warming of the waters of the Mediterranean, which generates an increase in water vapour which, upon contact with the cold layers of the stratosphere, produces this heavy rainfall. It is true that this normally takes place in autumn, but it is also true that this used to take place every 15 to 20 years, while it currently happens almost every year, with tragic consequences at least every three or four years. Is this or is it not the result of the greenhouse effect and climate change? Although the experts cannot guarantee it with all the scientific evidence, I believe this to be the case. We must therefore remedy this situation. It is true that with the measures contained in the Kyoto Protocol, to which the report we are debating today refers, we will not achieve short-term results, but it is also true that the human race should try to solve the problems it creates. Other causes – also triggered by human greed – combine with the greenhouse effect, such as building on watercourses, which heightens the damaging effects of these natural disasters. I am therefore one of the signatories to a motion for a resolution suggesting not only the rapid application of the measures contained in the Kyoto Protocol to combat climate change, but also other types of preventative measures, for example continuing and intensifying efforts to prevent the effects of rain when creating infrastructures, and finally, aid to all the victims, given that they are not responsible for the short or long-term damage caused by human greed and speculation. Mr President, as the rapporteur has just pointed out, Community competition law has undergone substantial reform over recent years, which is now culminating in the reform of Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89 on conciliations. It is true that, if we accept the comments of Mr Monti, it is still necessary to make proposals in the field of the public aid proposed, and I wish them every success, even though it cannot be denied that this is clearly a road strewn with dangers and difficulties. In the field of conciliations, it is the case that the reform of Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89 has not been as radical a change as the one which has taken place, for example, in the field of anti-competitive behaviour. This is firstly due to the fact that Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89 was a good regulation, it was a good legislative text, which has allowed us to carry out a suitable Community competition policy in the field of conciliations. In September 2000, on the tenth anniversary of the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission organised a seminar to discuss it and the opinions expressed by the specialists and sectors involved in it were positive, despite the criticism of certain very specific aspects. Subsequently, the Commission produced a Green Paper containing proposals for reform, which were also partial and specific, which deserved the clear support of this Parliament. We are now debating the report on the proposed reform; Mr Della Vedova has produced a wonderful report and I congratulate him on it. The report contains some very significant aspects, and perhaps one of the very important aspects which should be stressed is that it differs from the Commission’s report on a point on which, at the same time, the Commission differs from the proposal contained in its Green Paper. This is the problem of multiple notifications. These multiple notifications increase the costs for notifiers and affect legal certainty since, in so far as various authorities have to decide on a single concentration, there is always the possibility of contradictory resolutions. And if there was anything on which there was complete agreement it was the fact that the unnecessarily complex rule in Article 1(3), introduced in the 1997 reform, had not contributed to resolving the problem. Therefore, the Green Paper proposed the three-country rule, but now that rule is being forgotten in favour of a system, which is welcome, of two-way communications, either from the national authorities to the Commission, or from the Commission to the national authorities. But maintaining the text of Article 1(3). The truth is that, as I have said, the improvement of these referral mechanisms deserved our applause, but we do not understand the reasons for having forgotten the three-country rule, unless it has been detected that, as happened in 1997, the majority of countries wish to keep in their hands a significant competence to implement policies with industrial content, which is not always necessary. Mr Della Vedova has mentioned the Socialist Group's insistence on the participation of workers and says that this is not the place to deal with it. I cannot agree with that opinion. We must bear in mind that, regardless of whether the conditions relating to efficiencies is reformed, any competition authority, on approving a concentration, takes account of certain efficiencies and there is no question that one of the most important of these efficiencies is the maintenance or creation of jobs, and this being the case, the information the representatives of the workers can provide is important. Mr President, I support the call for urgent procedure. Yesterday the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy gave almost unanimous approval to a request for this procedure. There are good reasons to approve such macro-financial aid as a matter of urgency. This is a separate issue from the ongoing debate on the legal basis. As the House will be aware, the situation has changed considerably since the murder of the then Prime Minister Mr Zoran Dzindzic in March of last year. The present economic situation calls for urgent action by the European Union. –Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is absolutely no doubt that the promotion of electrical energy production by means of cogeneration is an objective which we should all share, and for various reasons. We are therefore going to support the Commission’s initiative, which deserves all our respect, and we congratulate the Commissioner on it. Production by means of cogeneration allows, firstly, energy savings and, as a consequence, achieves an environmental protection objective, since it reduces CO2 production. There are other reasons why this method deserves our support. Firstly, by producing heat and electricity in a combined fashion, costs can be reduced, and also, if required, users can be offered an alternative supply, which, in some cases, is a way of introducing competition, particularly in those markets – as is the case in the electricity market in my country – where there is a strong oligopolistic component. Support for the promotion of cogeneration has been ratified by this Parliament in its Resolution of 25 September and we will therefore be acting coherently by supporting this initiative. But the problem is that, when we talk about the concept of cogeneration, there are in fact very differing realities between cogeneration in the countries of the North of Europe and that in the South. It was therefore very difficult to combine such different realities in a single proposal. In the countries of the North cogeneration is essentially used to produce heating, while in the South, cogeneration is a system used by certain industrial sectors which require the production of intensive heat and also reduces the cost of electrical energy. Examples of this are the paper industry and the ceramics industry. It can be deduced from this that the cogeneration plants used in different countries differ radically. While in the plants dedicated to heating steam turbines are used, and it is only necessary to generate heat during the cold months of the year, in those intended for cogeneration production for industrial purposes the heat required is of greater intensity and is used throughout the year. This means that there are differing sizes and systems, and to encompass everything within a single directive has been difficult. I believe that the efforts made by the rapporteur to encompass and include such differing realities in the text of the directive have been remarkable to say the least, and I would therefore like to congratulate him warmly. I would like to say that, in general terms, we will support the text of the report with the amendments proposed. –  Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating my colleague, Mrs Ghilardotti, as well as the Council and the Commission for having finally secured progress on this dossier. As with the Regulation on the Statute for a European Company a few weeks ago, and the annex on participation, we have been making more progress in the last few months than we had for years. I think that this gives us an excellent opportunity to send a clear signal to the public that, at European level, we have a concept of the company that encompasses all those that work within it, which, it must also be said, is not only a democratic right of workers, but, also, these principles of information and consultation set the right path for companies to become more efficient, more effective, non-authoritarian and participatory. In these times of globalisation, lifelong learning and the incorporation of workers into the dynamics of a company are crucial. We hope, Commissioner, representatives of the Council, that, as Mrs Ghilardotti stated very clearly in her amendments, that this is a genuine regulation. This will require two obvious and fundamental elements: firstly, that the participation of workers should take place before decisions are made, for if this is not the case, they will carry on finding things out through the papers and they will really be under the impression that the work that has been carried out here in Parliament, in Council and in the Commission is a joke. They have to be involved before decisions are made, because the press is there for everyone else. Secondly, their participation must also be a legal requirement. The exact difference between the regulation and the recommendation is that, when the regulation is violated, there can be a sanction. If there is no sanction, what we do remains purely symbolic and has no legal foundation. Representatives of the Council, we are at second reading. I would like to finish by saying that I hope that on this occasion we do not experience what has taken place on so many others, that you forget that Parliament has legislative faculties on a par with your own. I hope, therefore, that you will take good notice of Mrs Ghilardotti’s report, which is not only for her own good, but for the good of millions of citizens and workers in Europe. – Mr President, Commissioners, I am very happy that the assessment made of the European employment strategy allows us to improve the instruments, because this is one of our citizens’ great demands. I would like to ask a question, Mr President. The Commissioner has spoken about setting objectives in an area in which those objectives should be of a national nature. My question is whether, in fact, with regard to the employment rates which have always been referred to, on a regional level and a European level for 2010 and 2005, the Member States will be bound by specific figures, whether each State will be obliged to move on from literature to mathematics, whether we will really have a European employment strategy at State level which does not consist solely of ideas, but which also involves a demand for results, from the European Parliament and from public opinion. Mr President, Commissioner Lamy, I have long been endeavouring to extract from the Commission figures relating to the number of jobs to be lost in the leaf tobacco production sector, the related manufacturing industry and in associated sectors. So far, my efforts have been in vain. I put a specific question to the Commission yesterday and received a reply today. This reiterated that the reform will not have a negative impact on the income of the holdings. The Commission has also reiterated here and now that the reform will not have a negative impact on producers’ incomes either. To date, however, the Commission has failed to respond to the question concerning the effect of the reform on employment. You are yourself on record as stating that no specific assessment exists, Commissioner. I have received similar information in written answers, despite indications that 14 Directorates-General have been exercised on the subject. Commissioner Lamy, I feel it is irresponsible to undertake such a far-reaching reform without any information on the implications for jobs. Some 100 000 directly related jobs are at risk in the sector, together with 500 000 indirectly related ones. I believe the Commission does actually know this. I suggest it is withholding the figures because it is fully aware of their alarming proportions. I suggest too that the Commission is fully aware of the devastating consequences of the reform for employment and the regions affected. I can certainly forecast them myself, and so can all those who understand the sector and work in it. We are all also aware that the accompanying measures will prove inadequate. Incidentally, these measures are not additional, Commissioner. They come from the producers themselves. In any case, they will be insufficient. Commissioner, producers are up in arms in Extremadura, the region I represent. They rightly believe the reform to be brutal, radical and unjustified. They feel they are about to be sacrificed in the interests of a cause ridden with misinterpretations. They find themselves in an unbearable situation. They are angry because they have been at the receiving end of hypocritical and misleading statements. Allow me to remind you, Commissioner, that in June the Commission gave assurances that reform would be undertaken taking account of the social situation in the least-favoured regions. Allow me to recall also that in June Parliament and the Council were instrumental in obtaining a political compromise. This entailed Mr Fischler abandoning the maximalist approach of total decoupling. Despite all of this, there is now a proposal for total decoupling of the most labour-intensive CMO. Commissioner, I join with previous speakers in urging the Commission to reflect. Before adopting these regulations, I beg you to spare a thought for the anguish of those families and the future of the regions concerned. They must not be sacrificed on the altar of hypocrisy. I am put in mind of that excellent account of hypocrisy provided by the famous French dramatist Molière in his play . – Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that it is intelligent and necessary to begin this brief contribution to the debate on employment guidelines by congratulating ourselves on the positive European statistics and I would like to show my appreciation for the work of all those who have worked so intelligently so that we may finally have a procedure for coordination in the field of employment, as provided for in article 128 of the Treaty of Amsterdam. But, at the same time, I hope not only to express satisfaction but also concern, because the project and the procedure, in my view, are ambiguous. Together with the clear fact that it is very important that the Union has, as one of its objectives, a high level of employment and social protection, we can see that the data shows that there is still an enormous gap between the support given and the needs of those people whose families and themselves personally suffer from the scourge of unemployment. And I would describe this procedure as insufficient, not because it is naïve to believe that it is easy to carry out, nor because it is puerile to ask the Commission and the Council to achieve objectives which are beyond their capabilities. I believe that it is insufficient because we are still treating the problem as if it were a current problem when, in reality, Europe is suffering from a structural problem of an historic nature, born of a change in production methods, born of an increase in productivity in work which leads to increases in production and wealth which do not result in increases in employment and that this increase in wealth is distributed amongst companies and the workers who are in work, leaving those in a worse situation out of the picture: women, unqualified young people and the long-term unemployed. To sum up, it is because we continue basically to believe that the market will resolve a problem which cannot be resolved by the market because it is not a current problem, but rather a problem caused by our model of society. And I would like to take advantage of the few seconds remaining to say to the Commissioner – while thanking her for being here – that she should keep an eye on the figures provided by the Governments, firstly, to ensure that those figures are accurate and, secondly, so that they do not continue to provide data on active policies which are actually figures arising from taxes on employment and social welfare contributions. We see, although we do not have time to illustrate it, that in the Governments’ reports, figures are given on new initiatives on active policies, but they are being financed through taxes on employment and social welfare contributions. I therefore think that the Commission should be more diligent so that, so to speak, “they do not have the wool pulled over their eyes” and let us see whether, finally, in the year 2000, we may have criteria and levels to measure our objectives, our means and our results in terms of quality rather than just quantity. Only in this way will European employment strategy be more than just propaganda in some of our countries. – Mr President, for me it has been a real privilege – and a surprise – to attend this conciliation procedure and to witness first hand the resistance and difficulties we have had to face in order to make progress. This is demonstrated by the excellent work of Mrs Smet, and also Mr Provan and Mr Rocard. I would also like to thank the Commissioner, Mrs Diamantopoulou, her department and so many people – also the Portuguese Presidency – who have allowed Parliament, like Churchill, to set a milestone in the construction of a social and more humanitarian Europe. I am convinced that there is another reason for recommending that Parliament vote in favour of this report: the difficulties we have faced in making progress with regard to certain governments. I will be truly happy to see these sectors, which were excluded from the 1993 directive, provided with a recognised European regulation on working time, even if it does involve long and protracted timescales. However, we should not be dazzled by the light. There is no doubt that public opinion – and I too am concerned about this public opinion – does not understand why these procedures are so slow and why, with regard to the problem of young doctors or fishermen, we have not been able to make any progress. It is not acceptable – since we all agree that we cannot continue to ask these young doctors to work these exhausting hours and that we cannot continue to put our patients at risk – that we have not been able to make speedier progress. I hope that, in fact, the timescale will be nine years and not thirteen years, although it pains me to say that, as a Spaniard, I feel restricted by the fact that it has been my government which has insisted most on having this additional period. They may have requested this additional period, but we should take great care to ensure that they do not use it. Lastly, I would like to ask the Commissioner and the Commission, to monitor closely the application of the directive, so that in nine years time they do not ask for three more. .  Mr President, Commissioner, Council representatives, I shall devote the first part of the time available to me to speaking on behalf of Mrs Rodríguez Ramos, who is unable to be here as planned to defend her report on cotton. She would, however, like to me to emphasise that without exception, all CAP reforms in Europe have allowed over ten years for the activities affected to adjust gradually to the changes entailed by changing from a policy of price support to a system of support for producers. This has been the case for all changes to the CAP, dating right back to the McSharry report through to Agenda 2000. Commissioner, the current reform of cotton production began in 2001. You are now proposing to institute further reform, without any prior environmental impact assessment. I shall return to this point later. You have also failed to appreciate that your plan is in contradiction with the policy enshrined in the protocols annexed to the Acts of Accession of Greece, Spain and Portugal. I would remind you that supporting the production of cotton in producer areas was one of the objectives contained in those protocols. Your final objective is actually complete decoupling. We believe your proposal will result in the production of cotton being discontinued. The Commission seems to be fully aware of this. In addition, action is being taken although no valid assessment of the sector has yet been carried out. The Commission must be aware that cotton production is concentrated in very backward areas. It must surely understand also that ginning and other related activities are likely to be seriously affected. Let me make the following quite clear to you, Commissioner. There is no alternative crop that could possibly be produced by the farmers affected. Regulation (EC) No 1783/1999 prevents them from planting fruit or vegetables. Surely, Commissioner, you are not expecting those farmers to plant maize, thus penalising other producers of maize or beet, because of the quota system? Further, what is to become of the industrial sector? By contrast, the compromise put forward by the rapporteur does take account of all these factors. It is also in line with the CAP reform guidelines and with agreements reached with the WTO. It would mean all aid to cotton could be taken out of the amber box. I therefore hope we can count on your support, Commissioner, in the effort to prevent the disastrous consequences the proposed reform would have for jobs. It would also have a negative impact on certain areas of my home country. By way of example I could mention Andalusia, an Objective 1 region where serious social concerns exist. Mr Berlato mentioned them earlier. As regards tobacco, I endorse everything Mr Berlato said. I fully agree with the view he put forward. I would also like to suggest that you read your own regulation again, Commissioner. That should prevent you from repeating statements of the kind you made this evening, namely that no drastic consequences will ensue. The regulation actually states that total decoupling is liable to result in the demise of the sector of production concerned, and that this is particularly likely in the case of tobacco. Nonetheless, Commissioner, you have proposed total decoupling. Your reasoning was inappropriate and misleading, and you presented arguments we all recognise as hypocritical. It is not the case that the Council failed to adopt specific decisions on tobacco at the Gothenburg Council. I think you should also admit, Commissioner, that you have only included the views of the health sector in the environmental impact assessment, and that there is no reference to experts’ views. The Commission has attempted to justify itself by reference to reform of the CAP. In fact, despite the statement you have just made, Commissioner, only partial decoupling was discussed in June. Nonetheless, you are advocating total decoupling for tobacco and cotton. You are doing so despite being fully aware that these crops are vitally important to certain Objective 1 regions in Europe in terms of both production and employment. Do you not find it contradictory to argue along these lines in the case of such a particularly labour intensive crop? The livelihoods of the tobacco producers are at stake. So too are thousands of related jobs. Indeed, the future of entire villages and regions is threatened. I find it hard to believe you are actually proposing such a drastic measure, Commissioner. I simply cannot understand how you can be suggesting an abrupt end to the production of these crops, without any transitional period. After all, these are particularly sensitive regions of Europe. I could give you any number of reasons against such a move, Commissioner. As time is short, however, I shall mention just one of them. All sides in this House have striven to come up with a reasonable, just and fair solution. Each of them agreed to compromise on something. Everyone recognises the need to make an effort to find a flexible solution for the Member States, a solution that would also allow the sector to begin to adjust. The proposal you have put to the House falls far short of this, Commissioner. I therefore appeal to you at least not to prevent the major political agreement reached in Parliament from providing a way forward for the tens of thousands of families that perceive you as an enemy threatening the future of their family and their professional lives. That is certainly how you are perceived in my home region of Extremadura. . Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the main aim of my report is to examine two articles of Council Directive 93/104/EC on certain aspects of the organisation of working time. This important directive was approved ten years ago in order to regulate certain factors which are essential to the health and safety of salaried workers, such as daily rest periods and holidays. The directive also indicates the maximum weekly working time of 48 hours, although it allows it to be calculated as an average over a reference period of four months. The approval of this important directive – which is one of the most important in Community social legislation – was not a straightforward process. The resistance of the United Kingdom was only overcome by the Court of Justice and, for ten years, we had to have two temporary exceptions with regard to the reference period for calculation of the 48 weekly hours, and with regard to the application of the 48 hours weekly working time in those countries that want to implement this exception if the workers wish, provided that this wish is expressed freely and reliably: this is what is known as individual opting-out. The Commission and the Council should have re-examined these temporary exceptions before 26 November last year. Regrettably, however, the Commission did not communicate its analyses or proposals by that date. Up until 30 December 2003 it did not present us with any Communication nor open up a consultation period, and furthermore its text lacks specific proposals on the trickiest issues. What the Commission has done – and we should thank it – has been to commission a study by the University of Cambridge – carried out by Barnard, Deakin and Hobbs – on the way opting-out has been used in the country which approved it, in other words, the United Kingdom. This report provides us with in-depth knowledge of the negative consequences of its widespread use and abuse in a labour market in which it has been applied in a generalised manner. My report refers exclusively to the re-examination of these two exceptions in order to respond not with waffle, but with clarity, to the question the Directive obliges us to ask: 10 years after its adoption, does it make sense to maintain the extension of the reference periods? Does it make sense to maintain the principle that it is possible not to apply the maximum 48 hours by means of individual opting out? I say in my report that both questions must be answered in light of the principles which governed the adoption of the Directive: the health and safety of workers. These must be accompanied by a third: flexibility, as indicated by the Commission in its communication. We must ensure that the professional and family lives of Europeans are reconciled. My proposals are also clear. According to our objective information, there is no reason to abrogate the extension of the reference periods which have proven to be useful and have not, at least for the moment, had serious consequences for the health and safety of workers, but on the other hand, there is overwhelming evidence that opting-out seriously jeopardises minimum health and safety rights, and seriously jeopardises the reconciliation of family and professional life. The debate and the vote within the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs have been very tough. I hope that tomorrow we can continue working and bringing positions closer together. I personally have maintained an open attitude to the element of flexibility, also with regard to the problem of the duty hours of doctors which has been introduced into this debate. I have been flexible, just as the Directive is flexible. Now, I have always stated, and I will do so until the end, that individual opting-out sets extremely dangerous precedents: minimum rights, Mr President, are inalienable. If today workers are being obliged or allowed to surrender basic rights, such as maximum hours, tomorrow, on the basis of the same argument, they could be allowed to surrender other essential elements of their health and safety, to work in environments in which they suffer noise, dust, the removal of protective barriers at work sites, to surrender maternity rights and many other things. And all in the name of individual freedom, which disappears when it is applied. It is a horrendous precedent. I will end, Mr President, by saying that our Charter of Fundamental Rights and Article 137 of the Treaty oblige us to resist the wishes of those who do not want European rules. Opting-out is not a flexible rule: it is the absence of rules. By allowing basic minimum rights legislation not to be applied to someone, we would be advocating the absence of rules. I hope that all Members of this House will give this full consideration. We cannot offer victory to people who do not want the social Europe to be built, to those allergic to minimum rules, which workers on our continent have enjoyed for more than a century. – Mr President, legal doctrine and politics talk a lot of the European social model and it should be pointed out that, at least in terms of the collective rights which regulate industrial and labour relations, European company law, as we are seeing this afternoon, is experiencing the trauma of a very difficult birth, after a pregnancy which has lasted thirty years. I would also like to point out that, in light of the Treaty of Maastricht and the Social Protocol, since 1974 there has only been one legislative instrument adopted at European Union level. Therefore, those of us who are tuned in to the thoughts of millions and millions of workers can today be satisfied because this second approximation is taking place, and then we will also see the reform of the Statute. However, Mr President, the least we can say is that we are going too slowly and with so many preventions and precautions (with regard to certain countries represented in the Council, including my own) that, in the end we have frankly witnessed an anticlimax. Very little has been produced. However, I am going to support it, of course. After so much drought we have this little drop of fresh water which, although it is still insufficient, is beginning to eradicate this terrible anguish which our citizens are also suffering. I would like to remind the members of the Council, as Mrs Weiler has said, that what is happening in Europe and in the rest of the world is that the people are extremely concerned, given the social advances they had achieved in each individual country, that the process of globalisation, the process of European Union construction – and next the enlargement of that Union – should not under any circumstances lead to a reversal of those social advances. Nevertheless, we are seeing that many governments, and some sections of political opinion, as well as sections of business, now intend to remove many of the achievements which had been made at national level. I would like to congratulate Mr Menrad because he has defended, from the point of view of the best Christian Democrat tradition, as well as our Social Democratic tradition, the social achievements made in his country of origin and intended for the whole of Europe. That must be our perspective: to move forward and to take the direction of the most advanced countries, and not of the least advanced; to take up the arguments of those who are thinking of the citizens, of the workers, and not of those who are considering how to remove the historic achievements of those citizens and workers. Therefore, Mr President, despite many doubts, doubts about the legal basis – I believe we will have to make an effort to defend the rights of Parliament – we must not delay this company legislation for one more second since, together with the directive on information and consultation, it must make rapid progress. And there will still be time, with experience, to improve on the current deficiencies. –  Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are quite right to say that it is now – and always has been, since Luxembourg – the Member States that have to make the policy of the employment strategy a reality and adopt practical initiatives and not confine themselves to emphatically reiterating objectives and claims which are regrettably not translated into action and which remain as nothing more than the bureaucratic accumulation of projects or already existing administrative dynamics, without finding a new way of encouraging the nation as a whole, involving social operators, all types of administrative authorities, parliaments, etc. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is the Member States that are responsible and Parliament has just said, in November, and has been saying for five years, that national employmentplans have major shortcomings in terms of programming, evaluating and following up; that there are no concrete objectives, that there are no indicators, that financial resources are not properly discussed. You said, and rightly so, that individualised programmes must be created. My reason for saying all of this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is to persuade you that in the 45 remaining days of this Presidency, the Spanish Presidency must really come up with a powerful initiative, because the problem is that the number of unemployed people in Europe is on the increase and we are not creating the jobs that we said we would in Lisbon and we cannot continue always saying the same thing, adopting a purely administrative approach, when faced with a problem of this scale. – Mr President, Commissioner, I will start by saying that our Group warmly supports all the arguments and all the amendments which the rapporteur, Mr Hughes, has produced for this second reading. I am going to take this opportunity to highlight the problem of independent workers, because I believe that the good intentions on the health and safety of mobile workers, which the Commission and the Council are boasting of, may have horrendous effects if obstacles continue to be placed in the way of including independent workers in the Directive. It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, and not an opinion, that the three basic principles put forward to justify the need for the Directive – the health and safety of workers, road safety and fair competition – are mere words if we exclude independent workers. It could even be said that the health and safety of the majority of workers in countries such as mine, who are self-employed, are not of the least concern to us if we exclude them from this Directive. The Council has the opportunity to avoid responsibility for situations such as those which arise in my country, where more than 400 drivers lose their lives every year, without distinguishing between self-employed and salaried workers. This figure is increasing by 20% per year. Why are we only going to take account of the risk facing a minority of these drivers? ‘Are the self-employed not people?’, as Mrs Smet asked. Of course they are. Why forget about the majority? Do those drivers and citizens who use the roads not face identical risks? Let us be serious. If we really want road safety and the health and safety of workers, it makes little difference whether they are self-employed or salaried. Independent workers are not another race. In fact, they have more work to do than the salaried workers. They have to look after their lorries, their businesses, they have to load and unload, adding these tasks to their maximum hours, while salaried workers deduct all of this from their maximum hours. As if this argument were not enough, ladies and gentlemen, and if we want to consider the question of free competition, of fair competition, please bear in mind that salaried drivers are going to spend fewer hours driving, the lorries they drive are going to make shorter daily trips and they will arrive later at their destinations. How competitive are those companies going to be in comparison with those companies whose conditions are much tougher and much less economically burdensome? So our conclusion is that excluding self-employed workers is going to have horrendous effects for these workers and also for the sector. For all of these reasons, we urge the Council to add to the effort that it has already made and include independent workers, if it truly – and this is not pure rhetoric – wishes to protect the health and safety of all drivers, increase road safety, promote fair competition at Community level and not destroy the sector. It should do so if it wants to protect jobs and companies and, if it wants, in summary, the directive that we deserve in the 21st Century. – Madam President, I would like to begin by warmly congratulating Mrs Smet on her truly remarkable report, the principal virtue of which is its timeliness. The open coordination method has become the general rule on the basis of our experience of the Luxembourg process and of the possibilities opened up by Articles 126 and 128 of the Treaty; it is a timely process, because this generalisation has also allowed many issues to be raised in Parliament – in relation to insufficiencies and gaps which have repeatedly been condemned and which should be resolved – and because the Convention is about to produce a constitutional Treaty, offering Parliament a great opportunity to make its voice heard. It is therefore a timely project and a highly topical initiative, because the Convention and the Intergovernmental Conference are going to offer us the opportunity to overcome these difficulties, which, as other Members have pointed out, relate to certain fundamental visible deficiencies, the lack of openness – despite being called an open method – and also the inefficient coordination. We therefore have an excellent opportunity and Mrs Smet’s initiative offers us an excellent reason to continue working. Secondly, Mrs Smet has done great work, a great report, into which she has incorporated the best ideas emerging from the debates we have held in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. We socialist Members of course feel very comfortable with this report; although you and I, Mrs Smet, are very far apart physically and ideologically, we are in fact very close on this issue since you are truly dealing with and resolving our group's main concerns. You establish a balance between all the institutions, you spell out the role of the Commission and give Parliament a central role, thereby overcoming the significant democratic deficit we have observed. You open up channels for transparency, in order to incorporate all the players – national and regional parliaments, NGOs, social actors – which we value highly. You call for an institutionalisation of the Treaty – which we believe to be essential – you define the scope in order to prevent this method from replacing or encroaching on areas in which there are Community instruments of a legislative nature – I believe you do this very well – and, finally, you guarantee that assessment work is carried out so that the method may be effective. We socialist Members, Madam President, are therefore going to give this report our fullest support and we hope that it will assist in European integration and help to provide European problems with a European solution, even going somewhat further than mere intergovernmentalism. Mr President, Commissioner, this House will tomorrow put forward its position, ideas, hopes and also its concerns regarding the future evolution of pensions from a long-term point of view on our continent. The Commission communication on the future development of social protection, pursuant to the mandate granted by the Lisbon European Council, has provided us with the opportunity of doing so. I should therefore like to begin by welcoming that communication. It has brought the problem out into the open, provided Parliament with an opportunity to discuss it and presented a broadly-based study of the phenomenon of ageing in Europe. The debate has been taken beyond mere financial considerations. It is only right to congratulate Commissioner Diamantopoulou on having involved Members of the European Parliament as representatives of the citizens of Europe, in a debate of this nature, crucial to the future of the Union. I would like to take this opportunity to do so. At the outset, I would also like to thank my colleagues on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. This is not just a form of words, I am genuinely grateful to them. Not only have they been kind enough to adopt this report by an overwhelming majority, but they have also many useful contributions in the course of discussions. In addition, they tabled a broad range of amendments. For the most part, I was able to incorporate these into my report, because they embodied useful approaches. I have no wish to appear boastful but it does seem to me that in the Committee on Employment we have revived a broad consensus across all groups in this House. Clearly, this has proved possible because instead of each group seeking to impose every last detail of its own plan on this issue, we have sought consensus on its most important aspects. We are all aware that the ultimate responsibility rests with our States. Nonetheless we realise that in the Europe we hope to build, there is scope for establishing criteria, objectives, values and principles which will be common to all Europeans. We are also conscious that it is our right and our duty not to remain silent in the face of this major problem. I should also like to state, in this initial overview, that I am firmly convinced this is a problem which demands a broad debate and social and political consensus. When it was created, the European social model was founded on broad social and political consensus. It will not be possible to reform this European social model under the auspices of new forms of enlightened despotism as advocated by those who believe that select groups of experts, high-ranking bureaucrats or certain Finance Ministers should rule the world. The social and political consequences of modernising the European social model are such that the matter cannot be entrusted to those who only appreciate the financial perspective and neglect the social dimension of the problem. It would be irresponsible of us to ignore the data on economic requirements. However, we would be making an even greater mistake if we focused entirely on the economic consequences, and failed to take the impact on human beings into account. Europe is ageing. Unless there is a dramatic upswing in the birth rate, this will have serious repercussions. It will impact on the financial capacity of the system, on the balancing of public accounts and also on individuals. If we fail to resolve the problem or do so in an unsympathetic manner, we run the risk of unleashing a wave of poverty and social fragmentation across our continent. Consequently, the first message I should like to send out, or rather that I feel Parliament should send out, as our committee has already done, is that all the challenges posed by ageing must be taken into account in a balanced way. I could mention in particular the challenge to public finances and also the challenge to the methods adopted by previous generations for the building Europe. In our committee we noted that the demographic dependence ratio is a very important factor, but not the only one involved. There is another even more significant factor, namely the economic dependence ratio. This means that our main problem will not be the number of pensioners we are confronted with, but the rate of employment. The crux of the issue is that if Europe grows, it will create employment, it will create firms capable of ensuring that that rate of economic dependence does not deteriorate. Europe has a long way to go, because our rates of employment are inadequate. They could become adequate however, if we achieved economic growth and if that growth were directed at creating the jobs needed on our continent. The figures are far below those of our main competitors, the United States and Japan. In fact, if we attained the objectives set at the Lisbon Summit, the objective could be perceived as far less daunting that the data available indicates. Furthermore, this data, although certainly significant, amounts to long-term predictions and is therefore subject to revision. No Biblical curse is about to befall us. We could yet find a way out of our predicament because there is still time to deal with a number of factors currently causing concern. Constant monitoring of that data will be called for, and increasingly rigorous criteria must be applied, to ensure that it does not become grist to the mill for those who are intent of benefiting from the situation. Mr President, I should like to make one final point. If we are to create the jobs Europe needs, the jobs the social protection system needs, we need to include women and older workers. They are the reserves we have to mobilise. We must activate all the Union’s social and economic potential. In the Committee on Employment we believe that is the best way of tackling the problem of ageing on our continent. – Mr President, I would like to ask the Commissioner two questions, but first I would like to congratulate her because the debate is continuing and I like the music, although we will have to wait to see the lyrics. Firstly, Commissioner, we Members have not seen the communication, and I would like to know when we will see it and how Parliament will be involved before the spring Council, so that its opinion may be heard. Secondly, Commissioner, you have said that this is a process of support for the reforms of the Member States. My question is whether only those reforms which are in line with the Commission’s communications and with the common doctrine we have supported in the European Parliament will be supported. Because not just any reform will be sufficient. If the reform is of a purely financial nature and does not take account of the social needs raised by the ageing of the population, I very much fear, Commissioner, that a large majority of this House will not be able to support it. –  Mr President, there can be no doubt that Europe was in need of an employment strategy in 1997 even though the economic cycle was at a high and it was possible to argue that the market itself would provide for our needs. In the light of the present situation, however, it is even more necessary to make every effort to improve this strategy, particularly as we face up to a war situation and its aftermath. The Commission’s communication and reform must therefore be more than welcome. Let us hope that the second half of the decade that began in 1997 will actually surpass the first. I must begin by echoing what other Members have said. I do not know whether to start by commenting on Mr Mann’s report or on the amendments to it. Further to the statements made by the rapporteur and by Mr Pronk, I find I am bound to state strong opposition to all the amendments. Mr Mann’s report does indeed contain a number of positive ideas. These enjoyed broad support in committee. Unfortunately, the amendments amount to a strong reaction against the most sensible and balanced ideas of the European strategy for ideological reasons. I should like to focus on the objectives and point out that there can be no valid strategy if the objectives are scaled down. As the Commissioner stated, the Lisbon objectives are crystal clear. There is no doubt that the objectives for the coming five years are more jobs, better job quality and better social inclusion. Mr Mann, more jobs is not synonymous with full employment. It is not acceptable to maintain that it was over-ambitious to hope to attain the rates of employment set at Lisbon. That is backtracking. Similarly, better quality is not synonymous with lower taxation, nor is more social inclusion synonymous with fewer fiscal demands. Public resources will be needed to launch proactive policies and to ensure those in danger of being excluded from the labour market are drawn into it. If these amendments are adopted, I shall therefore be obliged to vote against your report, Mr Mann, along with many other Members in my delegation. – Madam President, I would also like to add my voice to those who this morning do not wish the current conflict in the Basque Country to be misinterpreted, because, Madam President, words are also lethal weapons and also lead to deaths in the Basque Country. There must be no such ambiguity, when it comes to analysing death, in a forum such as the European Parliament, which is the temple of democracy. Madam President, you will be very welcome in the Basque Country. You will speak for the enormous majority of this House, because the enormous majority of the Basque people are against those people who, while claiming to speak for the Basque people, ride rough-shod over freedoms and fundamental rights. Mr Gorostiaga represents nobody but that minority which, showing a complete disregard for the best European democratic traditions, tramples upon fundamental rights. Madam President, go to the Basque Country, speak for us and show that we are crying out – hopefully not in the wilderness – for this to be the final death. Mr President, as rapporteur for the own-initiative report on Directive 93/104/EC on the organisation of working time, I would request that the vote take place on Wednesday rather than tomorrow, since negotiations are being held between various parliamentary groups and they asked me a moment ago if we could do this. If possible, therefore, we would like to be able to continue working tomorrow and vote on the report on Wednesday. . –  Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists wishes to table an oral amendment to paragraph 12. The amendment reads as follows in English: –  Mr President, Commissioner Liikanen, ladies and gentlemen, before starting on my speech on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I want to express our very sincere and warm thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Read. We have been working against the clock and we have been dealing with an excellent and supportive fellow Member, who has been very open to accepting all the points our committee wanted to raise in this important debate. Many thanks for your report and your skill, Mrs Read. The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has welcomed the Commission’s very important initiative, Europe, for the Special European Council to be held in Lisbon on 23 and 24 March, with support and optimism. We naturally applaud the Commission’s aim of making the information society benefit all sectors and all regions but now, with the Commissioner here, we also have the opportunity to consider the citizens’ viewpoint and remind the Commission and the public that rhetoric in announcing objectives and expressing desires is not enough. We want these words transformed as firmly as possible into specific objectives and precise financial commitments, because that is the only way to get a real strategy covering every aspect of the information society. And the strategy will only be of use to the weakest groups and individuals, and those who are most at risk of exclusion from the new society, if there are concrete commitments. No doubt the Commission has the noblest intentions, but, looked at from the viewpoint of the workers and the least advantaged people, it still has not answered the questions this Parliament has raised in many documents, for example, the report on the Green Paper entitled “Living and Working in the Information Society: People First”. We still do not have much idea of who is going to finance the massive programme to teach basic digital literacy which Europe needs to close the gap with the United States. We do not have much idea of how the responsibilities can be divided between governments and Commission, or what role trade unions and civil society can play. So we want supplementary analyses taken into account, we want firmer commitments, we want a specific point about strengthening employment and social cohesion in the information society – because there is nothing about that in the Commission’s communication – and we want a strategy with guidelines, recommendations and indicators. We want adults mentioned, not just young people, we want disadvantaged groups mentioned and we want you to remember equality of opportunity too. The new society must not exacerbate inequality between men and women. Commissioner, there are great opportunities here, but they must reach all the people. And we want the European social model to be defended. So we are asking for a step forward, with more specific commitments and far more adequate political and financial efforts. – Mr President, like other Members, I would firstly like to thank and congratulate the Commissioner and the rapporteur, Mr Mantovani, because I believe it has really been an excellent idea to produce a communication on the needs relating to healthcare and the care of elderly people. Commissioner, holding this debate is consistent with all this House’s concerns about the needs of elderly people, and it is very helpful that Mr Mantovani’s report has achieved such a broad consensus on certain very important ideas. I am one of those people who believe that the dignity of a society is basically measured by the dignity with which it treats its elderly people; I also believe that issues relating to health, rather than being commercial goods, are a matter of rights. Fortunately, Mr Mantovani’s report and the amendments which I hope we will approve tomorrow and others which we will reject – I hope – will highlight these elements, which are fundamental to the future of Europe. I am pleased that it moves in this direction, that it stresses the coordination elements which the Commissioner has mentioned, that it maintains the open coordination method, and I hope that this is the beginning of a broader consideration, so that it may also reach other elements of our society. As the Commission has said in some of its documents, Europe – despite its great progress and despite having increased its standard of living and life expectancy over recent decades – still has problems such as the fact that one in every five citizens dies prematurely; the new risks; inequalities and differences on health issues, ... These problems are not exclusive to elderly people, but they are problems and issues for all European citizens, who are appealing to us, to the politicians, to the European Convention, to finally treat Europe as an area in which there can be competition but also cooperation and solidarity. The European citizens are asking for it for essential elements of their lives such as health. I therefore hope that this method of open coordination, this detailed and exhaustive approximation of health needs – but also social needs and the humanisation of the lives of the elderly – and of these problems, is extended in future communications. I hope that we will have new instruments so that Europe is not just a market, but also a collection of rights and a source of hope, which is what the public are asking us for. –  Mr President, Commissioner, in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, we upheld unanimously the criterion that it was of strategic importance and a matter of priority to support the interventions of the Structural and Cohesion Funds which are working for a better opportunity for jobs for the unemployed and for equality between men and women. Unfortunately, the excellent Schroedter report did not take account of this criterion, despite the fact that there is considerable evidence to show – as we shall see later in the Berend report – how, in fact, these funds are providing splendid assistance to the most backward regions in order to bridge the gulf that separates them from Europe’s most highly-developed regions. They are growing, but only in terms of GDP. They are increasing in competitiveness but they are not all experiencing an increase in wealth because there is no increase in employment and there are still differences in employment opportunities between regions.  Commissioner, please read the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and treat it as a matter of priority, because this is our citizens’ greatest problem. Please take account, in strategic terms, in the revision and in the allocation of reserves, of employment needs, because this, fundamentally is what the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Funds require. Madam President, in fact, our ritual congratulations at this point for the rapporteurs and the Commissioner are today fully justified, because today this Parliament, together with the Commission and the Council, is taking a genuine step forward in terms of bringing our agenda into line with the agenda of the citizens and simplifying their lives and, although it does not give them new rights, it does at least make it easier for them to exercise the rights they already have. Administrative simplification is very important, as other Members have pointed out, but I would also take this opportunity to say that for the first time we are modifying the old Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 and we are beginning to talk not just about the free movement of workers in Europe, but also the free movement of citizens, and we are beginning to organise a discussion and political practice in which the right to European citizenship begins to become a reality in relation to such fundamental elements as the right to health. It is therefore an extremely important first step of a strategic nature. I would also say, Madam President, that this success and the congratulations we are all offering must not lead us to be complacent: we must continue to be demanding because this is simply a first step. We do not yet have a European card. This is a simplification of forms; the card is not yet an intelligent card, there are still many steps to take before the right to health for all Europeans is truly guaranteed, coordinated and justified by a Community authority. I therefore believe, Commissioner, that we must continue to make progress; this is the first step, as I have said, in a long battle to make the social Europe more administratively simple, but also more profound and more serious in terms of our status as citizens. Mr President, few things concern the European citizens more than the health of their pensions, few things in their family life or their social life demands such constant attention throughout their lives, perhaps because for millions and millions of Europeans pensions are the only significant asset they accumulate and the only security they have against the risks of biological life or economic life. This excellent report by Mr Andersson is the culmination of a legislature of the European Parliament during which we have brought our agenda into line with the agenda of the citizens. This is an important legislature because the European Parliament, also following excellent communications and excellent initiatives from the Commission, has introduced the issue of pensions into the Community agenda for the first time. We are extremely happy that at the end of this legislature progress has been made on a philosophy which has radically increased the appreciation of this phenomenon. It is no longer just a concern inspired by financial considerations or the balance of public finances. We now have a doctrine, a strategy, which together with this important issue, we have enriched and supplemented with the objectives and needs of the European citizens. We are therefore pleased that this report and the Commission's Communication have analysed the strategies of the Member States, taking account of financial viability of course! Perhaps in this way we are also demonstrating that we are responsible politicians. There are basically two categories of politician: there are irresponsible politicians, who only think about the next elections, and there are responsible politicians who think about the next generations. The Andersson report is thinking about the next generations, but is also thinking about bringing things up to date so that social security, pensions, fulfil our objectives and combat poverty. It also thinks about modernisation and categories of workers, particularly women, who face such risks in the new social order and the labour market. What does the Commission tell us about the situation of our Member States? We can see that there is a will, but we can also see that there is sometimes apathy and a lot of prudence; and I would also add that there is fear of reform in the Member States, perhaps because the population is afraid that reform may in fact be an excuse to talk about cuts in their social rights. It is therefore very important that we help to overcome these fears amongst the population by presenting reforms which are not just cuts, but which are aimed at satisfying their current and future needs within a more secure, fair and equitable framework. Tomorrow, the Socialist Group will support the Andersson report and the work of the Commission because we believe that in fact the changes proposed are not frivolous, or opportunistic, but that they respond to our social commitment to this generation of workers, to these citizens, and also to those who will live in Europe in the next generation. –  Commissioner, we are today going to be initiating a process – which will certainly be very beneficial to Europe – of generating great added value for the much-needed modernisation of our social protection systems. I wish to ask you a question and perhaps make a small suggestion. The focus of the Commission’s action will be an annual report assessing the various national strategies. Do you not think, Commissioner, that it would be useful for the Commission also to work on the basis of other information, to accept what  missions and universities can provide and, of course, information or debates that we could provide from Parliament, so that you are not limited to what might merely be the interests of each of our governments, which might be more interested in making propaganda for themselves than in seeing the reform implemented? . – Mr President, in the European Union there are 12 million legal immigrants from third countries. Entry and residence for reasons of family reunification is, in almost all the Member States of the Union, the main route for legal immigration by nationals of third countries. This family immigration consists of both family reunification in the strict sense – the reunification of family members with a third-country national who is already resident – and the reunification of a family when the family ties are established after the entry of the third-country national. Persons authorised to enter as family members, as a percentage of all immigrants, varies from 40 to 50%, and this figure is even higher in certain Member States of the Union such as France or the United Kingdom. While recognising the importance of this aspect of legal immigration in quantitative terms, it is also important to stress the fundamental role played by family reunification as a necessary means for achieving the integration of third-country nationals legally residing in the European Union. The presence of family members provides these people with greater stability and greater integration, by allowing them to lead a normalised family life. The majority of family members admitted on the basis of the right to family reunification have a great advantage, compared to other types of immigrant, since they already maintain very close links with a person – the person who is being reunified with their family – who is already established in the receiving country, which makes it far easier for them to integrate. Legislation on family reunification must be governed by two principles, which must also be applied in all legislation on immigration. These principles, which have been repeated on other occasions, are equality and security. I will not go back over the whole history of this proposed directive we are discussing today, since I assume you are aware of it, but I must refer to the first political agreement on legal immigration which was reached at the meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 28 February, on the Council Directive on the right to family reunification. This agreement is in many respects far from what this Parliament is proposing. I am aware of the difficulties involved in reaching agreements on such sensitive issues as immigration issues, which are approached and regulating in very different specific ways in the various Member States. The proposal as presented today for the approval of this Parliament, includes as members of the family the partner of the person in question, as well as the unmarried partner recognised in the Member State, regardless of the sex; the minor children of the person in question and of their partner, including adopted children; the minor children, also including adopted children of the person in question and their partner when one of them has the right to custody and is caring for them; but we have not accepted the exception relating to children of over 12 years old according to which the Member State could examine whether or not they comply with integration criteria before authorising their entry and residence in accordance with the directive. Parents with difficulties in the country of origin have been included if they do not have any other family support. And adult children with health problems have also been included. The time limit for communicating the decision made is reduced from 9 to 6 months and from 12 to 9 months in exceptional cases. With regard to the conditions for exercising the right to family reunification, we maintain the reasons of public order, security and public health when it comes to granting that right. It will not be possible to deny renewal of the permit because of illnesses subsequent to the issuing of that permit. And refugees are exempted from the requirement that they must prove they are in a position to maintain their families. I have withdrawn all the amendments relating to subsidiary protection in exchange for a commitment from the Commission to present a directive to harmonise this issue in the European Union as soon as possible. With regard to the entry and residence of family members, we propose bringing the right to access to education, employment and professional training into line with that of members of the family of the person in question and not to that of the citizens of the Union. This will prevent differing treatment within a single family. In the event of widowhood, divorce, separation or death an autonomous residence permit may be obtained if the person in question has been resident for at least one year. In general, there are certain aspects which I believe to be positive, such as: the exemption of refugees from the requirement that they must demonstrate that they are in a position to maintain their families, the adoption of flexible criteria with regard to refugees in relation to proof of kinship and authorisation of alternative proof in the event that documentary proof is not a possibility; furthermore, family members are generally granted the same residence rights as the head of the family, family members are granted the same rights in terms of access to education, self-employed and salaried work and to family guidance and the special needs of unaccompanied minors are recognised. I must say, however, that the political agreement reached on 28 February is far from what this Parliament proposed in certain areas, because it reduces its scope and it is required that there is a reasonable prospect of obtaining the right to long-term residence. Finally, I would repeat that I have decided to withdraw all the amendments which included people receiving subsidiary protection in the scope in exchange for a commitment from the Council to approve the directive presented by the Commission on 12 September 2001, on the minimum rules on the requirements and status available to third-country citizens and stateless persons in order to be refugees or beneficiaries or other types of international protection, which would include the right to family reunification. For these reasons and for the reasons that have been fully explained previously in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home affairs, I would ask this House to support this report. – Mr President, terrorist acts are intended to weaken democracy and the fundamental values on which Europe is being built. It is therefore necessary – and this is what we have understood – the strengthen the fight against terrorism and create mechanisms and initiatives which strengthen cooperation between the Member States, bearing in mind, furthermore, the intensification of terrorist actions within the European Union. Also, the Member States must promote a commitment to rejecting any form of violence among their young people. Of the four main recommendations in this report (the definition of the crime of terrorism and applicable penalties, removal of the formal extradition procedure, the application of the principle of mutual recognition of criminal judgments and the European search and arrest warrant), I wanted to specifically highlight the last one relating to compensation for the victims of terrorism which, perhaps, has been the one least mentioned by other Members. In this respect, I wish to highlight the fact that this House already adopted, on 24 November 2000, a report for which I had the honour of being rapporteur, which determined, for the first time, the definition of victims and their role in the judicial process. Lastly, I would like to stress that, if we are capable of implementing the recommendations of this report, we will have taken a very significant step in developing the European area of freedom, security and justice. . –  Mr President, I would like to begin my intervention by welcoming the initiative by the Portuguese Presidency, which has continued – quite rightly, in my opinion – with the French Presidency. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we live in a society in which there are ever-greater cross-border movements. They are of truly massive proportions and have never been seen before in any era of history. In this matter, we simply have to remember, for example, that in 1997, within the European Union, more than 200 million people crossed the borders of their State of residence into the territory of other Member States. The European Union and the creation of the single market in turn involve the creation of an internal area without borders in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital must be guaranteed within the territory of the Member States, as laid down in Article 14 of the European Community Treaty. All of these factors, acting separately, but multiplying their effects when acting together, have meant that every day millions of people quite simply cross the borders of their State of residence into another State of the European Union, whether to live, to work or just to travel. This fact, whose economic and political consequences will be immeasurable in the medium and long term, nevertheless has certain negative implications for the citizens who make this move. One of these is the risk of becoming a victim of crime, both inside and outside the territory of their State of residence, ranging from personal robbery to, on occasions, terrorist crimes, which still cause cruel and inhuman damage in certain Member States of the European Union. Nevertheless, incredibly, the European Union has so far been incapable of creating appropriate formulae for fighting, in a united fashion, this scourge which knows no national borders because in judicial terms, the Member States continue to be shut off behind 15 different national borders. In the European Union, there is currently the paradox that the abolition of internal borders for the free movement of goods, people, services and capital has to live side by side with the maintenance of 15 national borders in the fields of police and criminal justice, which the Member States are making difficult to remove. This situation has unjustifiable consequences for those European citizens who move freely within the territory of the European Union. In the unfortunate circumstance that someone is a victim of a crime in a State other than their usual State of residence, that citizen has to suffer the bad experience of an unacceptable lack of protection, which is due to the inability of the States to build a genuine European judicial area. All victims of crime, regardless of their place of residence or nationality, must therefore be guaranteed respect for their rights and the certainty that they will receive the same treatment and speedy and sure compensation that all human beings deserve by virtue of the simple fact that they are human beings. This treatment should be received in any Member State in which a person is a victim of a crime. It is therefore essential that we create a genuine statute for the victims of crime, a common statute for all the Member States. The main objective of this initiative is to guarantee a minimum of compensation for victims in all Member States, guaranteeing them at least a common minimum. By the same token, the fact needs to be pointed out that European criminal legislation in the Member States has always concentrated its attention and efforts on the criminal, both in terms of the prevention of crime and in terms of programmes and measures for rehabilitation directed at criminals. This is the first initiative that gives special attention and importance to the victim. This initiative could be called innovative and, up to a point, revolutionary in terms of the way in which victims are treated. It is, without doubt, a new element in the European judicial system, in which, for the first time, victims have their own recognised judicial status and not, as has been the case until now, one which is derived from the crime. In many cases, the victim is the object of a crime in the territory of a Member State other than their usual State of residence, which means that their problems and suffering are exacerbated and complicated by a whole range of circumstances which are negative, but common and constant, in the treatment of victims: a lack of communication owing to ignorance of the language, a lack of information, loneliness, a lack of protection in certain areas in which each State has preserved its own legal system. Therefore, and with the aim of being able to respond adequately to the needs of this type of victim, international standards have also been created which take account of the defence of victims’ rights and interests. I wish to highlight just two aspects of this initiative at the moment: European Convention No 116 of the Council of Europe of 24 November 1983 on the compensation of victims of violent crimes. I would like to highlight that, despite its importance and the fact that it is a mandatory point of reference in Europe, the Convention has still not been ratified, as of 18 September 2000, by the following Member States of the European Union: Austria, Belgium, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain. Another international initiative is the United Nations Declaration of Basic Principles of Justice for Victims of Crime and Abuse of Power adopted by General Assembly Resolution 40/34 on 29 November 1985. Ladies and gentlemen, because of what I have said previously, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 2(4) of the European Union Treaty, which lays down that one of the objectives of the Union is to maintain and develop the Union as an area of freedom, security and justice in which the free movement of persons is guaranteed, we must ensure that this area of freedom, security and justice guarantees genuine access to justice so that the European public can benefit from suitable legal protection in any part of the Union. For this reason, the Citizens’ Europe will not make sense unless we first adopt, amongst others, the necessary measures to improve and also take account of the rights of victims of crime, aimed in a global sense at safeguarding all their rights and interests, on the one hand, and, from a Community point of view, at harmonising the legislation of the 15 Member States on the other. Everybody, including the nationals of third countries who have been victims of a crime in any State of the European Union, must receive the same minimum level of treatment. The European Union cannot accept the idea that people might receive different treatment depending on the State in which they have been a victim of crime or on their nationality. This discrimination is patently quite unacceptable. Finally, the initiative is an important step forward in the creation of a European legal area, albeit partial and limited, but it responds to the real needs of an enormous number of European citizens who, until now, have been largely unprotected on becoming victims of crime outside their usual country of residence. With regard to the positive aspects of this initiative, I would like to highlight the definition of the concept of the victim and the adoption of measures which are intrinsically connected to the global attention which must be paid to them. For all these reasons, the majority of the amendments which are included in this report have been produced with the aim of respecting and recognising the rights of people who have been victims of crime, and of taking account of their interests and particular circumstances. To sum up, anyone who has been the victim of a crime must be guaranteed the same minimum level of treatment, their dignity should be protected, they should be guaranteed their rights to give and receive information, they should have access to justice and they should be granted compensation for the damage suffered immediately, effectively and in full. –  Mr President, I should like to emphasise certain issues which are no less important for being evident and having been reiterated in this debate. First of all, I want to draw the Council’s attention to the slowness and lack of coordination of some of its decisions regarding what was approved in Tampere, and I want to stress that this situation may lead to the failure of the agenda that you yourselves decided. What is needed is a new boost and greater political will to be able to fulfil the agenda and the objectives that are set out for us. Secondly I also urge you to work at developing the Tampere proposals and not Member State initiatives; although such initiatives are legitimate, this Parliament considers them lacking in coherence, partial in their presentation and content, guided by each country’s own situation, and not contributing at all to the overall view needed in this matter. Therefore, let me remind you that we already have a programme of initiatives presented by the Commission which, in my view, meets these requirements. Why do we not all focus on this programme? I must stress the need to combat illegal immigration and the vital importance of all the measures being taken to prevent the trade in human beings, the constant deaths in the Straits of Gibraltar, the fight against Mafia-like organisations and the exploitation of these people economically and in the workplace. All this has our support, but we must not lose sight of the need to adopt a balanced policy on the immigration question. Therefore, with the same determination and willpower we must all, including, of course, the Council, draw up and implement policies that truly integrate these citizens that live amongst us, and thus we shall avoid racist and xenophobic acts which regrettably and shamefully take place in the European Union. We shall avoid the tragedies that occur on the coasts of southern Spain every day, with boats laden with human beings reaching our shores and with people dying in their holds. For this we need a clear political will and sufficient budgetary funding. This is what I urge you to do, and I am certain that in this way we shall help build the area of freedom, security and justice we desire, and that we shall have the understanding and support of the European citizens in this important task. –  Mr President, policing is one of the key functions of modern states. An important part of policing involves guaranteeing the safety of citizens as a fundamental principle of living together in freedom. The dramatic increase in the range of activities within contemporary societies has however led to a need for additional security and control services for goods and persons. These may be provided by either natural or by legal persons. It has proved necessary for states to respond to this situation and find a way of integrating private security operationally into the monopoly rightly held by the state, given that this is a complementary activity which comes under the public security service. The Member States of the European Union have adopted a series of legislative measures to establish administrative controls. These differ from state to state. Freedom, security and justice must be guaranteed by the states. It is for each one to guarantee the safety of its citizens. With this in mind, the creation of a single market and the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice are bound to mean that it is necessary to harmonise private security services within the European Union. This is no easy task, however. Research has shown that a number of obstacles must be overcome. Firstly, national legislation in this field varies considerably. Secondly, there are significant legal barriers between Member States restricting or preventing the free provision of services in the private security sector. Thirdly, essential features of the various national regulations pertaining to the sector must be harmonised. These therefore are the problems making it imperative for the Member States of the European Union to harmonise their legislation regarding the private security sector. Only then will the free provision of services across a European area of freedom, security and justice be possible. That said, I am bound to request the House to support the report of the Committee on Freedoms in tomorrow’s vote. The report calls on the Council to withdraw the initiative in question. This is not because it is inappropriate, but because the legal form chosen is a decision, and also because of the legal basis chosen by the current Spanish Presidency to regulate the matter. That basis is Article 29(a) and Article 30(1) of the Treaty of the European Union. Both Parliament’s Committee on Legal Affairs and I myself at the Committee on Freedoms have already stated the need to establish whether the activity to be regulated under the draft initiative presented by Spain is within the competence of the Community or that of the Union. In this connection, I should like to draw your attention to three rulings by the Court of Justice against Spain, Belgium and Italy, on the grounds that they had retained in their legislation a number of conditions relating to the provision of services in the private security industry. This contravened the principle of non-discrimination provided for in the Treaty of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I am against the provision of private security services being part of a public service. The Court of Justice has ruled to this effect also. Consequently, as regards the free movement of workers, the exception concerning posts in the public services Article 39(4) of the Treaty establishing the European Community does not apply. Accordingly, I believe that the activities of private security services do not amount to exercising official authority. It is my view that when such services act in support of the public security services they do so merely in an auxiliary capacity. I must stress also that the private security sector is an economic activity, as the Court of Justice has confirmed. All legislative arrangements governing its activity in the Member States must therefore be subject to the Community’s provisions aimed at establishing a single market and eliminating internal borders within the Union. It should also be pointed out that to date, the Community has not adopted a directive aimed at regulating the private security sector. Nonetheless, this should not present an obstacle to future harmonisation of this sector. As rapporteur, I am therefore of the view that if the present draft decision were adopted, it would contravene Article 47 of the Treaty of the European Union. The latter requires the Union to respect the Community’s competence to act within the scope granted to it under the Treaty establishing the European Community, and prevents the Union from legislating within that scope. The initiative is certainly pertinent and worthwhile. Nonetheless, for the reasons cited, I propose that its content be reconsidered. I further propose that pursuant to Article 208 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Council should request the Commission to undertake a study of what should be involved in a common action in the sector of legal or natural persons providing private security services. If appropriate, the adoption of the necessary provisions should be proposed. Mr President, I therefore propose that the draft decision submitted by the Kingdom of Spain be rejected. It is not legally possible to regulate what falls within the scope of the first pillar of the Treaty establishing the European Community from the scope of application of the third pillar, regulated by the Treaty of the European Union. To do so would run counter to Article 47 of the Treaty of the European Union, amongst others. – Madam President, in the little time available I would like to give my personal impression, as representative of the Socialist Group at the Monterrey Conference – although I believe it is shared by all the parliamentary groups – of that Conference. This has been a Conference of contrasts. There are positive aspects which it would be unfair not to stress, but we must also recognise, as the Commissioner has done, that on certain aspects our expectations for this Conference have not been fulfilled and, of course, this Parliament’s expectations had been expressed by means of a resolution. On the one hand, to have a consensus document, drawn up previously in January in New York, has the positive effect of allowing the participants to dedicate their time to meetings and achieve very significant bilateral commitments, to participate in round tables. But, on the other hand, we also revealed what our weaknesses and limitations were and how far we were willing to go. We knew previously that certain issues might be put on the backburner, because for the sake of reaching a consensus, particularly with the United States, the European Union was going to give in. I believe that this has been a failing on the part of the Council: to demonstrate this weakness. Of course, it was not the European Union that was represented there; it was the European Commission, the delegation of the European Community, since the European Union does not yet have its own personality. The positive aspects include the commitment to a budgetary increase in development funds by Europe, as well as better coordination between the Member States, and the fact that the United States has also committed itself to increasing its contribution. Nevertheless, I believe we will have to continue working towards the next Johannesburg commitment, where we will have to define the issues relating to new sources of funding – which have not been discussed – to global resources – nothing has been agreed in this respect either – and also stress the need to listen more to developing countries and seek a solution to their foreign debt. We must commit ourselves to continuing to work towards Johannesburg, in order to fulfil the objectives of the Millennium Summit. – Mr President, given the small amount of time available to me, I am not going to waste a single second on rhetoric or demagoguery and, therefore, I am going to concentrate on issues which, from my point of view, are more significant. I would firstly like to say that I completely agree with Commissioner Vitorino when he says that the European Union should first teach by example and then preach. I also wish to congratulate Mr Cornillet on the excellent work he has done, despite a lack of resources. His work clearly reflects the fact that within the European Union there are still groups and people who suffer discrimination, whose fundamental rights are not properly respected. I therefore believe that we must make greater efforts in accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty, as well as Article 13, after Amsterdam, since those groups mentioned in Article 13 are still suffering discrimination and a lack of respect for their fundamental rights. I am referring to issues as regrettable as racism, which still takes place in the Member States; discrimination as a result of the sexual orientation of certain groups, specifically homosexuals, who still suffer legislative discrimination in certain Member States; the protection of disabled people; women, that vast group that suffers discrimination; and immigrants, which this report reveals to be the new group which suffers the greatest discrimination. Unlike some speakers, I would like to say that I am in favour of recognising the right to vote of immigrants, who only then will enjoy sufficient respect for their rights. –  Mr President, I too will try to help in this miracle “timesharing” between the panel of Commissioners and MEPs. Mr Vitorino, you know perfectly well that we share your concerns, the work that you personally have explained to the Committee on Freedoms, the scoreboard and the priorities that the Commission has set for all these issues. We are working on it in this Committee. Clearly, circumstances such as those I mention in the question I have put to you must give any European citizen, and especially those for whom we are responsible, an acquired political obligation. We are working doggedly on these issues, and asking for the greatest effort to speed up the work, so that none of the situations I have mentioned, like the expulsion of immigrants, can ever happen again, because this makes us ashamed to be Europeans and even more so to be those politically responsible. . – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner, as well as all the Members who have stayed here until this time, but I believe that the occasion warrants it, since this is an important issue and we have been waiting for it for a long time. I entirely agree with what the Commissioner has said, but there have been certain statements made during the debate which I would like to clarify. At no point does this report on family reunification allow for situations such as those Mr Pirker has mentioned: polygamy or the possibility of applying this directive to future wives and I would like this to be recorded in the Minutes because I think this is a very serious statement which can only be born of ignorance or bad faith. – Madam President, I would like to remind the House of the importance of the proposal we are debating today, for various reasons. Firstly, I believe we should make it very clear that this is a very important first step towards a common European asylum system which, in the long term, will be valid throughout the Union. Secondly, I believe that we must not now forget that what we are doing is no less than fulfilling one of the objectives agreed at the Tampere European Council, where respect for the right to asylum was reaffirmed in a completely unconditional way. Thirdly, despite possible discrepancies between parliamentary groups on certain points of the proposal we debated, we must not forget that, in reality, we are providing all the European national systems with a structure that may operate efficiently in accordance with the Geneva Convention on the status of refugees. I believe that the European Union, from this Parliament, cannot look the other way and fail to implement the instruments that Europe is developing at this moment. We must remember the Charter of Fundamental Rights which this House recently approved and that, if it is to be borne in mind in this particular field, it must always be with a view to implementing that which was agreed in the Geneva Convention and never to reduce it. For one reality we cannot forget is that, since the second half of 1996, the number of asylum seekers in the European Union has increased considerably, while the resolutions which recognise and grant that right have diminished alarmingly. For all these reasons I believe that the amendments that we have adopted in committee and which we are presenting to Parliament today have substantially improved the Council’s proposal and have highlighted certain very interesting questions, especially with regard to the safeguards for asylum seekers, the principle of non-return and also certain essential minimum requirements throughout the process of taking decisions on the recognition of this status, which require that each case be studied individually. These asylum requests cannot be resolved collectively. Despite the Commission’s misgivings, I believe that we will have taken a great step forward with these amendments, if they are also adopted today in Parliament. – Mr President, I welcome the Commission communication on victims of crime in the European Union, since it studies the process of creating common policies, as well as greater cooperation between the Member States at a time when we are all aware, including this Parliament of course, of the need for this type of communitisation. Bearing in mind the enormous number of citizens of the European Union who suffer as a result of crime and, in particular, terrorism, I welcome this report which we are debating today since it contains certain points which, in my view, are particularly noteworthy. One is the sensitivity it shows by specifically highlighting the fact that there are certain social groups – women, children, immigrants, homosexuals – who are more vulnerable than the rest of the population, as well as the fact that there are also certain sectors who, ignoring the most basic democratic principles, prefer to use violence to impose their objectives. We must start by achieving a common definition of the concept of the victim to include families and dependants, since they also suffer the consequences of crime. On the other hand, I also fully share the opinion that everybody resident in the Union should be clearly included, so that they may be subject to all the different measures that we are debating today, regardless of their status. Nevertheless, it is regrettable that the adoption of the proposed measures is to be postponed until 2004, since I believe that they must be adopted as soon as possible. From another point of view and bearing in mind the ever increasing importance and influence of the media in our society, special attention should be paid to the way in which the media deal with the reality of these people, which is not always respectful of individual rights, above all when we are talking about minors, whether they be victims or delinquents. With regard to these people it is also necessary to apply certain measures so that they can rebuild their lives correctly, not only from an economic point of view, but also through psychological, legal, medical and social assistance. To sum up, they should be guaranteed full protection and, for that purpose, I am convinced that it is absolutely essential to cooperate with the NGOs and associations in the sector in every Member State. I must finally stress my deep concern about the need to pay due attention to the victims of terrorism, since these are people who suffer from a very serious and specific form of crime which, unfortunately, does not only take place in my country, Spain, and which threatens democratic coexistence and freedom. Mr President, last week, in the Andalusian town of El Ejido, we saw scenes which were inappropriate to the European Union in the year 2000. This was acknowledged by the Commission President, Romano Prodi, on 9 February when he confirmed that what had occurred in El Ejido went against the very principles of the European Union. These events have caused us great pain and shame and have awoken our fears given the extreme racism, xenophobia and intolerance demonstrated. It is incomprehensible that ways of coexisting and ensuring mutual respect cannot be found between two communities which are mutually beneficial. The only way to prevent these events happening again, in a place where there are large communities of immigrant workers, is through social integration. This requires a firm economic, political and social commitment from the competent authorities. We are all immigrants. For generations human beings have not always remained within the borders of one nation state but have constantly migrated. Geographical mobility is not an invention of the twentieth century and neither are its economic and work-related causes. We are all immigrants, if not ourselves personally, then through one of our relations or ancestors. However, instead of producing these events which we are condemning, migration must generate social, cultural and economic enrichment. What happened in El Ejido is unfortunately not exclusive to this one town of the European Union. We must therefore firstly condemn clearly and emphatically the brutal racist and xenophobic outbursts of certain inhabitants of El Ejido against immigrant workers in the area. A whole community should not have been held responsible, criminalised and attacked for one regrettable but isolated incident. Secondly, all the authorities must act immediately. Coordination between them is the key to combating this type of xenophobia and racism. In particular, local authorities and mayors have a direct responsibility to prevent any demonstration of racism or xenophobia, especially when this involves violent and aggressive acts against people and their property. These authorities must also help to achieve difficult agreements between the parties involved and must not hinder these, as has happened with the mayor in question. Thirdly, the political parties must assume direct responsibility for the political actions of their public officials. They must prevent any individual action or declaration which is contrary to the principles and values of coexistence and tolerance expressed by the European Union. Finally, the European Union must be responsible for monitoring the application of its principles. It must prevent any racist or xenophobic demonstrations in its territory and support and collaborate with national, regional and local authorities and non-governmental organisations and associations in the application of these principles. This must occur within a framework of constant action to combat racism and xenophobia and to encourage the integration of all immigrants resident in the EU. – Thank you, Madam President. I certainly welcome the fact that, today, we are finally debating these two reports: the Watson report and the Gebhardt report, although it is unfortunate that this should be a consequence of the tragic events of 11 September in the United States. However, I think that there is an opportunity here. We can make an advance of fundamental importance, a giant step forward in complying with the Tampere agreements and in creating a European area of freedom, security and justice, that everybody wants, respecting the balance between freedom and security, the importance of which no one doubts. And, most importantly, we shall be able to provide our own small contribution to the solution of this difficult, complex and painful problem that weighs heavy upon us and knows no borders, which is terrorism. Parliament carried out its work before 11 September and it continues to do so now: I am referring to the Resolution we approved on 5 September. The Commission has proved its fast reflexes in proposing the framework decisions that we are debating today. We hope that the European Council is also able to rise to the occasion and makes the right decisions as along the lines of those made by the Commission and that Parliament is making today, and that, at the Laeken Summit, it responds to the demands of Europe’s citizens to close the net ever tighter on terrorists and terrorism in general, despite the technical difficulties, and to appropriately punish the guilty parties who have spilt the blood of so many innocent people and who have cruelly and pointlessly ended so many lives. – Mr President, I would like firstly to acknowledge the work and efforts of Mr Kirkhope. In particular, I acknowledge the difficulties we know he has faced during his work on this initiative. But this lack of a clear approach and these difficulties which Mr Kirkhope has experienced, have largely been due to the lack of clarity and the changes which the Council has introduced into the text, confirming that there is no unanimity on this issue. This makes work very complicated, not only for Mr Kirkhope, but for the whole of this House and, of course, for those of us in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs who have tried to improve the text. We must remember that the European Council, at its meeting in Tampere of October 1999, as we all know, agreed that the different but closely related issues of asylum and immigration require the creation of a European Union common policy, and elements were established which should include cooperation with countries of origin, a common European asylum system, the fair treatment of nationals of third countries and the management of migration flows. Also highlighted was the need to adopt a broad focus on the management or regulation of migration flows, including political issues, human rights issues, development issues and, of course, the fight against illegal immigration and human trafficking, which involves the countries of origin and of transit. For all of these reasons, I believe it is essential, not only in the case of this initiative, but of others which we are going to deal with next today, and of those which we are no doubt going to continue debating over the coming years, that the European Union adopt clear and fair principles which, of course, comply with the United Nations Geneva Convention of 1951. The European Union’s response to illegal immigration should not be restricted exclusively to strictly controlling it. We must not shirk our responsibilities for defending and promoting human rights. These rights must be reflected in this initiative. We must regulate migratory flow through all the mechanisms at our disposal, but we must accept that a sufficient number of people can be received so as to prevent illegal immigration and eliminate the mafias that control it. I would like to remind this House of Article 31 of the Geneva Convention, which states that there must be a real and well-founded fear of persecution in order to justify illegal entry into the territory of a country of asylum. In these cases, such people may use false documents as the only way to escape from imminent threats to their life or freedom. We must therefore guarantee that carriers are exempted from penalties in relation to asylum seekers with a view to creating an area of freedom, security and justice. Our objective is to improve the management of migratory movements within a framework of close cooperation with the countries of origin and of transit, stepping up the fight against this type of immigration and combating the criminal elements involved, while at the same time safeguarding the rights of the victims. It is a pity that this text presented by the Swedish Presidency does not offer any real progress in relation to the initial text of the French initiative. Unfortunately, the reality of immigration requires global, coherent and coordinated initiatives and not one-off actions, like this one, which is limited to implementing Article 26 of the Schengen Agreement. It is essential that we safeguard the institution of asylum. We must exempt carriers who transport foreign nationals from penalties, if those foreign nationals then seek asylum once arriving in the receiving country, even if the request is subsequently rejected. Nor can we oblige carriers to examine the motives of the asylum seeker and thereby perform the role which falls to the Member States. We have therefore deemed it necessary to request the withdrawal of the present text in the hope of achieving a better initiative, which would contribute to the creation of a real Community policy on this issue. – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like you to go into a little more depth, given that we are not at all satisfied with the reply that you have given, even taking into account the limitations of the Council in this area. But we cannot forget that not only in my country but also in the rest of the European Union, in the years to come, we will continue to experience migratory pressure from nomadic groups, which is the case in Spain with the group of Romanian and Gypsy origin. And faced with this pressure, which we all know will continue to increase on our borders and within our countries, we believe that it is essential that we develop a general plan to attend to these populations. A general plan in which the competences and responsibilities of the European Union are defined, as well as those of each Member State. It is absolutely necessary to co-ordinate actions to the benefit of these groups so that at all times, in all circumstances, the human rights and dignity of people are respected. But the required co-ordination can never allow any Member State of the European Union to shirk its responsibilities: neither the State nor any of the administrations into which that State is divided, which has happened in the case that has been mentioned in my country. We therefore demand a response from the Council to this problem which we will face with regard to the nomadic migratory population in the whole of the European Union, a co-ordinated response of the Member States, which at the same time involves everybody taking their own responsibility. –  Mr President, at this stage, the European institutions and this Parliament in particular are fully aware that due to the complexity and importance of the subject we are dealing with today, a legislative programme is needed that will only be effective within the framework of a common and coordinated European approach. There are many points of agreement between the Commission communication and the reports we are debating today. We need to develop a more proactive policy which recognises that pressure from migration is set to continue and that properly planned immigration can bring benefits to Europe, to the migrants themselves and also to their countries of origin. Our aim is to improve the management of migratory movements within the framework of close cooperation with countries of origin and of transit, strengthening the fight against illegal immigration and combating the criminal networks involved, guaranteeing, at the same time, the rights of victims. What is required is a more open and flexible policy which, in addition to providing greater coordination of policies aimed at reducing migratory pressures and strengthening border controls, could have the benefit of achieving a reduction in illegal immigration that would be advantageous to those very people who truly need the protection that refuge and asylum affords. We should maintain these levels of protection at all costs, as envisaged in the Geneva Convention, for this is also a sign of European identity that fills us all with a sense of pride. I would encourage Commissioner Vitorino to continue his good work and to keep to the timetable that has been fixed, and the Council to be equal to the position adopted at Laeken, thereby fulfilling the commitments made at Tampere. It is time to take practical decisions and not to make statements that are only balanced because of their ambiguity. These are the hopes and needs of Europe’s citizens. . – Mr President, I would like to ask for the draft legislative resolution to be voted on so that it is not referred back to the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, pursuant to Article 68(3). I would like to point out that there are precedents for this in Parliament such as the Karamanou, Deprez and Frahm reports. –  Mr President, can I therefore deduce from Mr de Miguel’s answer that the Council considers that to propose any initiative against acts of discrimination suffered by European citizens of both sexes because of their sexual orientation does not fall within its competence, and that therefore, it considers that the provisions of Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and the Council Decision of 27 November 2000, which establishes a Community action programme to fight against discrimination are also not within its competence? I would remind him that, unfortunately, there are many European citizens of both sexes that call upon this Parliament every day describing the discrimination they have suffered purely because of their sexual orientation and this is something that I, as a Member of this Parliament, am naturally concerned about, and I was under the impression that this did fall within the Council’s competence, quite apart from the specific circumstances of the case that has been mentioned here today. –  Mr President, today we have genuine reason to be pleased, because I am convinced that, with the approval, in a few minutes, of Mr Watson’s reports, we will be taking another important step towards the creation of the common European area of justice, freedom and security that we all wish to see. Another reason for this Parliament and, of course, for me personally, to be pleased, is the fact that the decisions adopted by the Council at the Laeken Summit take up the tenor of the positions that this Parliament has expressed on several occasions. I cannot however, approve the lack of sensitivity that the Council has shown towards Parliament – and this has been recognised by fellow Members and by the Council itself – with regard to consultation on the list approved on 27 December 2001. In achieving the difficult balance between freedom and security, a position in which we often find ourselves at the moment, we are taking the appropriate measures. We cannot postpone the approval of resolutions and democratic standards which protect democrats against the terrorists and against those who prevent the exercise of the democratic freedom of Europe’s citizens. At the same time, it is also our duty to acknowledge that we have a certain responsibility to continue to create this area of freedom and security, an aspect that some Members of this House have already put forward in various amendments. Sometime very soon, we will have to address these issues, but today is not the right time. . – Madam President, I would firstly like to express my satisfaction – as you have just done – with the initiative of the United Kingdom, France and Sweden, which we are considering today. The European Union and the existence of a European area of freedom, security and justice involve, in turn, the creation of an area without internal borders in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital must be guaranteed within the territory of the States of the Union, as laid down in Article 14 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. There can be no obstacles to the application of the law in the European Union. The Tampere Summit called for the principle of mutual recognition to become the cornerstone of judicial cooperation in both civil and criminal matters in the European Union. Trust between Member States in terms of their judicial decisions and their correct application is the least we must demand. Similarly, the Member States must make a greater effort in order to achieve a minimum degree of harmonisation of national criminal legislations. Until now, the application of financial penalties was regulated by means of two European agreements: the Hague Convention of 1970 and the Convention on the implementation of foreign criminal sentences of 1991. I would like to stress that the former, despite having entered into force, had only been ratified by five Member States; and the latter, the 1991 Convention, has not even entered into force. This is undoubtedly a clear demonstration of the need for initiatives of this type with a view to accelerating and making a genuine contributing to the construction of the European area of justice which we agreed on in Tampere. While various legal acts already exist in the civil field, in the criminal field – which is much more sensitive – there has been much more hesitation. To date, only decisions on arrests and the guaranteeing of evidence are based on the principle of mutual recognition. We still have a long road to travel and greater political will is required on the part of the Council in order to be able to fulfil the mandate of the Tampere Summit through the work prepared by the Commission, which often comes up against obstacles and little cooperation from the Council. This initiative represents a significant advance in terms of eliminating these obstacles. Mutual recognition is undoubtedly a key element for the construction of an area of freedom, security and justice. Similarly, I welcome the legal instrument chosen: the framework decision, which will no doubt prevent the complexity and long duration of ratification procedures. I would also like to highlight the fact that, as in the conventions I have mentioned, it is based on the principle of dual criminality, and its absence is, therefore, one of the grounds for non-enforcement. The initiative proposes that a certificate by the competent authority should guarantee the legality of the judgement and hence replace examination of the substance of the case. The difficult problem of how to divide up the proceeds between the two States concerned is resolved in Article 10 by allotting compensation payments and orders to pay court costs to the Issuing State and all other monies to the Executing State. I therefore welcome the initiative and largely concur with it. I consider that a legal area as called for in Tampere requires the unbureaucratic transmission and enforcement of judgements in criminal cases and that this initiative is a first step towards a comprehensive application of the principle of mutual recognition. I particularly endorse the provisions relating to the law to be applied, alternative custodial penalties and the amnesty, pardon or commutation of financial penalties. I also support the scope for the Executing State to reduce the financial penalty as laid down in Article 5. However, I have considered it coherent to insert a threshold which, as in the agreement implementing the Schengen Convention, should be EUR 40, and I would like to emphasise that conversion of the amount of the penalties would be the exception as the currency in the Issuing and the Executing State would normally be the euro. I would like to stress that I personally consider EUR 40 to be a small and insufficient amount, but I have proposed this amount for the sake of coherence with the agreement implementing Schengen, which set that amount. I would like to insist on both issues, and ask the Council – which is not present today by the way – to take account of the sensitivity and proposals of this House and, in particular, of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, and I therefore believe that the initiative must include the following in the framework decision: A European legal area must be based on the principle of mutual recognition. Therefore, the mere harmonisation of legal instruments is not sufficient. The European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights sums up, for the first time in the Union’s history, in a single text, all of the civil, political, economic and social rights of the European citizens, and those of all the people who live in the Union’s territory. From now on, all of the Union’s legal instruments must be measured in relation to it. Thirdly, the documents to be transmitted must be translated into all official languages of the Executing State. If the person liable to pay the fine or even go to prison knows only one of the official languages of the executing country he would not be able to read these documents affecting him, which would be an infringement of his rights. Finally, it is necessary that, in those cases in which the competent authority of the Executing State is not known, the contact points of the European judicial network should be used rather than designating additional central contact points. Therefore, the majority of the amendments have been tabled with the sole objective of improving the original proposal and contributing to compliance with the Tampere mandate, as well as adding one more element to the construction of a genuine area of justice, freedom and security. – Firstly, I would like to express my satisfaction, both at the existence of Article 13 which has been mentioned, and for the action plan which the President-in-Office of the Council has referred to and which has been developed for the issue that we are considering today. However, since not everything in the garden can be rosy, I am not completely satisfied at the moment. It is true that Article 13 covers practically all possible – at the moment at least – forms of discrimination. However, subsequent regulatory development and the initiatives being proposed are incomplete and unbalanced. The President-in-Office of the Council has mentioned three examples and I would like to refer to them specifically. There are certain cases in Article 13 which are susceptible to discrimination, such as the one we are dealing with today, the case of disabled people, which I believe have been implemented in an irregular way. It is true that there are others which are still much less developed, such as discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. However, returning to disability, I believe that the European Union requires more complete legislation which covers every possible type, including cases of double disability. I would like to know the Council’s opinion – as well as that of the Commission – and I would like to know whether it is considering any initiative for cases such as, for example, women and disability, discrimination on the basis of gender and for the kind of disability involved in the case I have referred to. . – Mr President, with regard to Amendment No 32, I would like to clarify that the correct version is the Spanish version, not the German version – in which there seems to be a degree of confusion in the translation – and that it refers exclusively to minors, not to other relatives of the person in question. –  I would like to use this intervention to the House to draw the Council’s attention to an extremely serious matter. In the European Union’s territory, in our territory, a whole range of completely intolerant attitudes and behaviour bordering on the fascistic is currently prevailing towards homosexuals. Europe has always been at the forefront in the protection of human rights, coexistence and tolerance, which have made this territory the most advanced in social terms, and we cannot allow ourselves to go back on these achievements of liberty, tolerance and coexistence. We must denounce the slightest hint of a divergence away from these strikingly European values. In the face of these facts, we should be concerned, and we should react in order to eradicate attacks on people, whatever their moral, religious, ideological or sexual orientation may be.  Having said this, and considering that we are now at a historic moment in European construction, with the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice, with a debate on a Charter of Fundamental Rights about to take place, and considering also the powers conferred on the Council by the Treaties in order that it carries out action which guarantees these rights of European citizens, I would like to know what the Council’s attitude is on the contents of this Charter of Fundamental Rights concerning the protection of sexual freedom and sexual choice rather than sexual guidelines. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Wiebenga, on the work he has carried out and on his clear desire to improve the text which we have been presented with. I also believe it is fair to congratulate Commissioner Vitorino, because it is evident that the proposal for a directive, the draft presented to us today, greatly improves on the proposals which have previously been presented to this House. Although other Members have highlighted important aspects of the issues we are dealing with, I do not wish to ignore certain aspects which I consider to be fundamental. I believe that it is important to stress the guarantee of the right of these displaced persons to family reunification on the same basis as holders of residency documents and, although this may be a personal view, I believe that the issue of unmarried couples has not been sufficiently dealt with. We understand the difficulties which have arisen in studying this problem and we will support any steps which may lead to a solution. Another issue which I feel to be important is clarity on the distribution of responsibilities between the Member States in the event of a massive influx of displaced persons. The Member States must deal with this type of situation in a homogenous and cooperative way. It is also important to make it clear that people who have benefited from the temporary protection system also have the right to make a request for asylum and that the Geneva Convention must be respected to the full, including its principle of not returning asylum seekers to their country of origin. The role of the European Parliament must be strengthened and, in cases of temporary protection, it is essential that it be consulted. We must all prevent visa restrictions, which were imposed in the case of Kosovo, for example, which brought shame on every one of us. I believe that on this occasion Parliament has done its job. The Commission has also demonstrated its will and done its job. We just have to hope now that the Council does its duty. – Mr President, I will begin by saying that I fully agree with the report by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs produced by Mrs Lynne and that, furthermore, I agree with what the Commissioner has just said, wishing everybody the best of luck – Parliament and the Commission itself – with the objectives we have set, because they will undoubtedly have an effect on the well-being of thousands and thousands of citizens. All the Member States agree that it is necessary to integrate disability into the procedures used by the organs monitoring the Treaties, either in the form of a protocol attached to one of the existing Treaties on human rights or as an instrument containing general principles, leaving open the possibility of subsequently adding implementing protocols. I believe, however, that we will only be able to achieve the desired objectives by means of a legally binding convention which includes civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights suited to the circumstances of disabled people. An agreement of a binding nature will demonstrate that disabled people face in their daily lives – as we all know – serious generalised problems which relate both to access difficulties and to bureaucracy and the attitudes of their co-citizens. Its objective is not to create new laws but to clarify and adapt the existing ones. The creation of a specific convention will be the only way to provide an effective monitoring mechanism for analysing the treatment received by disabled people throughout the world. The convention will prioritise the rights of disabled people within the agendas of governments. Its approval must mark the beginning of an effective and specific process aimed at guaranteeing the full and equitable integration of disabled people throughout the world. This means that the problems of these people will be taken into account in the political decision-making processes at regional, national and international levels. The European Union should also guarantee that organisations of disabled people are represented and act as advisers throughout the process and not just at the final moment. I would just like to insist on certain points which are important, although other Members have mentioned them, and which we in Parliament and in the Group of the Party of European Socialists have been advocating: the existence, in many cases, of multiple discrimination – as a disabled woman or a disabled immigrant – eliminating legal barriers in order to eliminate physical barriers, education – which is very important – in values, which includes non-discrimination against disability in schools. Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Angelilli, on the report we are debating today. The high degree of consensus achieved in the Committee on Citizen’s Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs is undoubtedly essential in such an important area as the one we are debating today; compensation for the victims of crime. The judicial systems of the Member States of the European Union do not pay enough attention to the victims of crime, and what is more, they often do not provide them with appropriate protection or compensation. As a result of this situation, in recent years criminologists and people responsible for judicial policy have paid particular attention to the situation of the victims of crime, within the context of criminal violations, and the protection of their interests. I believe that the report we approved in November 2000, on the status of the victim in the judicial process, was the first step in this legislature towards resolving this problem. It was an important step towards filling the immense legal vacuum which represented, in my opinion, a form of discrimination against the millions of citizens who move freely about the European Union, at risk of being victims of crime, but who are faced with 15 judicial borders, which, in practice, have shown themselves to be incapable of protecting their rights. I am happy that today we are closer to being able to guarantee compensation to victims, not only in order to alleviate the damage and suffering they experience as much as possible, but also in order to pacify the social conflict resulting from crime and to facilitate the application of a rational and correct judicial policy. I would also like to stress that, although reparations or compensation should fall to the person who has committed the crime, as the person directly responsible for the damage, in practice, full compensation by the perpetrator of the crime is rarely achieved, either because they have not been identified, or because they have disappeared or are insolvent. As I have indicated in the amendments approved, it is necessary to restrict the unjust effects resulting from the current varying levels of compensation in the Member States and to guarantee that the citizens of the European Union receive suitable compensation for the damage suffered when they are victims of crime in any part of the Union. This support for the victim must involve two types of measures which complement each other. Firstly, material, psychological, health and social assistance and, secondly, compensation for the damaged caused, both material and emotional, to the victim or the persons dependent on them. There is no doubt that this would represent great progress, with a view to achieving the political objectives which the European Union set for itself at the Tampere Summit and in the Vienna Action Plan. The creation of a genuine area of freedom, security and justice and the exercise of the right to free movement will not be possible unless the Union adopts the necessary measures to protect the citizen when they are victims of crime in any part of its territory, regardless of their nationality, and unless they are compensated for the damage suffered. This initiative by the European Commission and the work of Commissioner Vitorino is, in my view, the right way to achieve that. –  Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating Mr Pohjamo on his work and his initiative, for I believe that we are not dealing with a joint report here. This is an own-initiative report by Parliament in which we are attempting to introduce new ideas that will improve the management of the Structural Funds at a crucial time for both the European Union as a whole and for the future of this Fund. This report has arisen from the obvious need to improve the management of regional policy, as a whole, and that of the Structural Funds, which needs to be managed in a more flexible way. It also responds to the widespread sense of unease in the European Parliament. The room for manoeuvre and involvement of this Parliament when the Commission presents its reports is practically zero. Therefore, we believe that it is time to give both the Funds, on the one hand, and Parliament on the other, a greater political role to play. It is time to ensure that the delays which currently afflict the management of these important Funds are not ignored; it is time to correct them and to add new features. We need to differentiate between the budgetary efficiency of the Funds and their real effectiveness. Flexibility is, without a doubt, a factor that will increase the real impact of the Structural Funds on society and on the greater cohesion that we are all looking for. We need to introduce new measures for the assessment of these Funds and more socioeconomic parameters, good practices, greater visibility and, of course, better monitoring of the principle of additionality. We believe that initiatives such as this, which will hopefully be approved in tomorrow’s vote, will bring new ideas that will improve the management of the Structural Funds and regional policy as a whole. This will ensure that we arrive at the new Agenda 2006 with a major element of added value for everyone. –  Mr President, I am sorry, I was confused about the time. I should first like to congratulate my colleague Mr Ceyhun for the work he has done and his efforts to cover all the sensitive issues surrounding these two initiatives. Secondly, I must stress to this House something which is an absolute priority for the future of the European Union, our society and the political project we are constructing from here. It is the need for a Community immigration and asylum policy, something we will not be able to achieve without commitment, effort and hard work from the European Union’s political institutions. I should like to reiterate a number of issues that this House and the Council must take clearly into account when making future decisions. It is essential to distinguish between the disinterested humanitarian aiding of illegal immigration and the activities of criminal networks as laid down in Article 27 of the Schengen Convention. It is also important to distinguish clearly between those who benefit directly and actively from illegal immigration, such as those who organise and take part in the transport of illegal immigrants, and on the other hand the passive and indirect beneficiaries, who are the ones who profit from the work of illegal immigrants. It must also be stressed that the economic benefit itself may be direct or indirect, depending on the nature of the activity performed. I realise, however, that carriers cannot be held liable for transporting persons who request political asylum immediately upon arrival within the territory of a Member State. Carriers have neither the ability nor the authority to assess the admissibility of an application for asylum, and hence I understand that under no circumstances can they be directly or indirectly persuaded through these instruments to carry out an assessment of suitability. Sanctions must be proportionate and balanced and the punishment must be made to fit the crime. The means and ends must strictly respect the obligations accepted by the countries which are parties to the 1951 Geneva Convention as regards asylum-seekers entering an EU Member State. The purpose of such measures must never be to dissuade asylum-seekers from exercising their legitimate right to seek the protection of a signatory state, since this would constitute an infringement of the Geneva Convention. Lastly, I should like to point out that the Member States need to be aware that certain regions of the European Union are particularly affected by illegal immigration, and because of their geographical position they are having to shoulder much of the burden imposed by the immigration policies, so budget lines should be developed to allow compensatory payments, which will increase solidarity within the European Union in this area. – Mr President, I welcome this Commission initiative, but I would like in particular to congratulate Mr Cashman and Mr Mann on their excellent work in producing these reports. Given the large number of discriminatory actions, decisions and attitudes which still appear today in Europe, I am pleased with these reports which we are debating today and which contain certain points which I feel to be particularly noteworthy. Firstly, we must insist on the need to bear in mind, when implementing the concrete actions of this programme, Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which is the pivotal instrument in the fight against discrimination in the European Union. Secondly, we must highlight the particular discrimination suffered by certain social groups, women, the disabled, immigrants, homosexual men and women, the elderly and ethnic minorities and, within these groups, we must insist on the importance of monitoring and implementing concrete measures in the fight against cases of multiple or double discrimination, which occur especially in the case of women. We therefore have to stress the need to integrate the gender element into all areas of the fight against discrimination and, in parallel, I wish to ask the Commission to make a clear and decisive effort to achieve coherence between the directives, recommendations and programmes against discrimination, giving this House a leading role in the establishment of priorities, the carrying out of an assessment of the effectiveness of the actions proposed today in this programme and the revision, if necessary, of the actions and decisions taken within this action programme. Lastly, the European Parliament must be kept informed, taking account of the reports and opinions produced by this House, and we must highlight the importance and necessity of truly making use of the opinion and participation of the NGOs and associations – and providing them with the necessary resources – since they are without doubt the key to the success of the measures adopted. Mr Staes, I take note and naturally your comments will be communicated to President Cox, but I would remind you that that procedure is not a decision by Mr Prodi, but a decision by the Conference of Presidents of Political Groups, including yours, on the procedure for dealing with the issue. Your comments will therefore be passed on but please be aware what the basis for it has been. No, thank you, I will not enter into debates. Mr Parish has the floor for a point of order. To close this debate, I have received four motions for resolutions presented in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow Thursday at 12 noon. –Pursuant to Rule 37(2), I have received six motions for resolutions. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11a.m. . – Mr President, today is a great day, and proof of this is the fact that we have 25 flags accompanying the common European flag. You know that I am one of those who would like to see just one flag in this House, but today I believe that the presence of all of them is justified. The budget is not usually an emotive subject. But I must acknowledge that, particularly perhaps for those of us who have spent more than half our lives under a dictatorship, reaching an agreement today to fund the democratic reunification of Europe is a sensitive and emotional issue. I must say that everything was going well, apart from what I would consider a mistake on the part of the Council, which tarnished the end of the process and created unnecessary difficulties; the introduction of Annex XV, which had no precedents in previous enlargements. And the annex affected the basic competences of Parliament. There were two equally valid alternatives: to consider the presence of Annex XV as an implicit violation of the interinstitutional agreement and act accordingly, pursuant to Article 172 – and this will explain the final vote of certain Members – or to negotiate with the Council. This is the option Parliament chose, there were tough negotiations, in which we must acknowledge in particular the skill of the chairman of our Committee on Budgets, Mr Wynn, and as a result of which we have reached an entirely acceptable compromise which I will recommend to the House. We have achieved the objectives set for us and I believe that in some cases we have gone further than adjusting the financial perspectives for the purposes of enlargement. As rapporteur for many years in this field I would like to stress that this is the first review of the financial perspectives achieved in more than a decade. We will therefore have a Heading 3 for internal policies, which can operate in the coming years, which is sufficient if not comfortable. There will be no discrimination between old and new Member States. We have achieved a declaration from the representatives of the Member States, those who sign the Treaty. A declaration of an interpretative nature, which preserves the democratic rights of Parliament and of our future colleagues from the new Member States. Furthermore, we have achieved a new situation for Turkey, in heading 7, which has a dual significance: it contains a political message for that country and it allows us room for manoeuvre within heading 4 on foreign policy. Therefore, although, to be frank, I would have preferred to remove Annex XV, I am in a position to recommend to the House that you approve this agreement and I believe it will allow the Union and Parliament to move forward in the right direction. Thank you very much. Mr Seppänen, you have made personal references to several Commissioners. According to our agenda, some of the people you have mentioned will be present during this debate, but later on. For example, Mr Barnier, who you have referred to, is scheduled for this afternoon, but not for a little while. I mention this for your information. Thank you, Mr Turmes. We take note of your statement. We will make the relevant checks and, of course, we will improve this service if necessary. The joint debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon. –The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0138/2003) by Mr Glante, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the promotion of cogeneration based on a useful heat demand in the internal energy market. – The joint debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the votes. The sitting is suspended. Are there any objections to the presentation of this oral amendment? As there are not, we shall proceed to the vote. Mr Wieland, a point of order in the middle of the vote? – Thank you, Commissioner. We should be thanking you for your efforts under such conditions. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon. I am sorry but I am not changing my opinion.  We shall proceed to the vote on the whole of the motion for a resolution thus modified.  *** The next item is the Commission Statement on reinvigorating EU actions on human rights and democratisation with Mediterranean partners. Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Council. Not only did you make an effort to remain in the House, but you also kept well within the speaking time allowed. That is quite extraordinary for the Council. You did not even use the full five minutes you were entitled to, which is greatly to your credit. Pursuant to Rule 42(5) of the Rules of Procedure, I have received one motion for a resolution. The joint debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m. Thank you,Commissioner. To wind up the debate, I have received six motions for a resolution, pursuant to Rule 37 Paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate is closed. The vote will take place today at 11 a.m. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon. I am sorry, but I have no intention of carrying out that check. I would insist that the result was perfectly clear. You have not taken account of the fact that one group has not voted in the same way in both cases. I am simply applying Rule 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure and I will take the consequences. The next item is the presentation by Council of the draft general budget for 2004. Mr Magri, President-in-Office of the Council, will take the floor first. I would say to the rapporteur that the Presidency will give you the floor at the end of the debate. This is not the appropriate time for you to speak. I take note of your request and I will give you the floor at the end of the debate. The next item is the debate on report (A5-0394/2002) by Mr Wijkman, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Regulation on aid for poverty diseases (HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis) in developing countries (COM(2002) 109 – C5-0100/2002 – 2002/0051(COD)). [I think that is perfectly clear]. If there are no objections we shall proceed in this way.  I will take advantage of the Presidency and offer my [sincere] congratulations [in my own language]. ***   ***   ***  There is an oral amendment by Mr Mulder –  Mr President, I never thought I would be driven to make the speech you are about to hear. You and I are but two of the many who suffered long years of dictatorship. We all wholeheartedly supported the idea of the reunification of Europe and the creation of a democratic Europe once the countries in the other half of the continent achieved democracy. In this regard, we were well pleased with the outcome of the Brussels and Copenhagen Summits. The results might not have been remarkable, but the conclusions were acceptable and took account of the balance between the institutions. Then the text of this draft Treaty suddenly appeared. I should emphasise that the Treaty has not yet been signed and therefore everything is still open to amendment. This includes the deletion of Annex XV we have heard so much about. The reason is that it contains fixed budget items, together with guidelines on agricultural spending. In other words, it amounts to suspending the European Parliament’s rights up to 2007 in some cases and up to 2013 in others. This is inconceivable. We seem to have fallen down a black hole and be back in 1970. I find it quite intolerable. The book entitled  by Carlo M. Cipolla comes to mind. It deals with the basic laws of human stupidity I should make it clear this is not intended as a personal reference to our friend on the Council. A stupid person is defined as someone who causes damage to another person or a group of people without any advantage accruing to himself or herself, or even with some resultant self-damage. That is exactly what happened here. A text was introduced in an attempt to harm Parliament. The result was to damage the enlargement process and introduce unexpected hurdles when we all believed a solution was within our grasp. An unprecedented dispute then arose because precedents were ignored. There is no Annex XV in the Treaty for the previous enlargement involving Sweden, Finland and Austria. It is a new invention and that is really why the difficulty emerged. Ladies and gentlemen, as other honourable Members have made clear, Parliament is committed to enlargement on 1 May 2004. We are not in any way committed to a celebration on 16 April in the shadow of the Acropolis, however, though we would like to be part of it. We hope to be there, but we cannot accept the creation of different classes of Member States. We cannot accept restrictions on the competence of the European Parliament either. We would therefore like to make it quite clear that we are concerned about competence, not about money. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not sell Parliament’s birthright for a mess of pottage. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0209/2003) by Mr Miguel Angel Martínez Martínez, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the 2001 Annual Report of the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on EC development policy and the implementation of external assistance (COM(2002) 490 – C5-0607/2002 – 2002/2246(INI)). We shall proceed to the vote on the whole of the motion for a resolution thus amended.  ***  Firstly there is an oral amendment by Mr Knolle to Amendment No 15. –The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. –The next item is the report (A5-0061/2003) by Mrs Van Brempt, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on a thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides (2002/2277(INI)). – Mr President, allow me to begin by expressing my condolences at the deaths which have taken place. I believe our first duty is to express our condolences to the families. But, while this is correct and essential, we cannot restrict ourselves to this expression of immediate human solidarity. People have been lost – in fact, in my country we still do not know how many – and this is unquestionably the most important thing; but we have also lost homes, landscapes, flora and fauna. Fire weakens the soil, and sooner or later the usual traditional storms, which we always expect on the Mediterranean coasts in September and October, will arrive, taking advantage of this weakened soil to erode these areas even further. Let us keep this in mind. There is no doubt that the heat wave and the drought have contributed to this disaster, but heat is not a new phenomenon in the Mediterranean. As has already been said, we have had heat for centuries. What is exceptional here are these temperatures which exceed anything we have known and, therefore, those people who were sceptical about climate change should perhaps give this some thought and governments, companies and individuals should take the appropriate measures. People are wondering what the European Union is doing in this respect. The Commissioner proposes mobilising the Solidarity Fund, and I agree – I am rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, and there is therefore no doubt that I will be sympathetic to this proposal – but the Solidarity Fund, Commissioner, relates to natural disasters, and these are not just natural. There are arsonists and huge numbers of criminal cases, and we should also be asking ourselves what we are doing with the directive and with other legislation on environmental responsibility, how we apply them, how we transpose them and how they are implemented, and how we demand those responsibilities. I began in this Parliament in 1986. I believe my first action was a motion for a resolution calling for programmes for the prevention of forest fires in the Mediterranean. We went ahead with such schemes five years later, in 1992, and we had a ten-year programme running from 1992 to 2002. Why have appropriations always been left over, Commissioner? You have given us several good examples, but I, as rapporteur for budgets, would say to you that every year on the  transfer there are appropriations which originate from that fund. Why? Because the governments have not used them? I believe this is very serious, because if they are not used, next year we will once again be in the same position. We must take action at Community level. The Member States have their responsibilities, but I believe the European Union has a duty here to take the lead and to impose measures; otherwise we will have to trust, as we do every year, that the winters put out the fires of the summer. –The next item is the joint debate on the Reform of Staff Regulations: Report (A5-0069/2003) by Mr Malcolm Harbour and Mr Manuel Medina Ortega, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market on the proposal for a Council Regulation amending the Staff Regulations of officials and the Conditions of Employment of other servants of the European Communities (COM(2002) 213 – C5-0262/2002 – 2002/0100(CNS))  Oral question (O-0019/2003 – B5-0087/2003) to the Commission on the reform of staff regulations. The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: - A5-0349/2003 by Mr Mulder, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2004, Section III, Commission (C5-0300/2003 – 2003/2001(BUD)). - A5-0350/2003 by Mrs Gill, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2004, Section I, European Parliament, Section II, Council, Section IV, Court of Justice, Section V, Court of Auditors, Section VI, Economic and Social Committee, Section VII, Committee of the Regions, Section VIII (A), European Ombudsman, Section VIII (B), European Data-Protection Supervisor (C5-0300/3002 – 2003/2002(BUD)). – The next item is the report A5-0440/2002, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2003 as modified by the Council (all sections) [11138/2002 – C5-0600/2002 – 2002/2004(BUD)] and on Letters of Amendment No 2 (14847/2002 – C5-0571/2002) and No 3 (15169/2002 – C5-0595/2002) to the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2003. Rapporteurs: - Mr Färm, in relation to Section III, and - Mr Stenmarck, for the other sections. Mr Färm will open the debate in his capacity as general rapporteur. – The Minutes of yesterday’s sitting have been distributed. Are there any comments? I believe it is a clarification with regard to the wording and as such it will be taken into account. In any event it has to be approved. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0480/2003) by Mr Laschet, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on relations between the European Union and the United Nations (2003/2049(INI)). –Thank you very much, Commissioner. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at noon. –The next itemis the debate on the report (A5-0063/2003) by Mr Friedrich, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the ECB recommendation for a Council decision on an amendment to Article 10.2 of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank (6163/2003  C5-0038/2003  2003/0803(CNS)). The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: - A5-0072/2003 by Mr Ole B. Sørensen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sixth, seventh and eighth European Development Funds for the 2001 financial year (COM(2002) 211 – C5-0190/2002 – 2002/2087(DEC)); - A5-0109/2003 by Mr Casaca, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2001 (Commission) (SEC(2002) 403 – C5-0239/2002 – 2002/2101(DEC)); - A5-0101/2003 by Mrs Avilés Perea, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the 2001 financial year: 1. Section II – Council (SEC(2002) 405 – C5-0243/2002 – 2002/2103(DEC)) 2. Section IV – Court of Justice (SEC(2002) 405 – C5-0244/2002 – 2002/2104(DEC)) 3. Section V – Court of Auditors (SEC(2002) 405 – C5-0245/2002 – 2002/2105(DEC)) 4. Section VI – Economic and Social Committee (SEC(2002) 405 – C5-0246/2002 – 2002/2106(DEC)) 5. Section VII – Committee of the Regions (SEC(2002) 405 – C5-0247/2002 – 2002/2107(DEC)) 6. Section VIII – European Ombudsman (SEC(2002) 405 – C5-0248/2002 – 2002/2108(DEC)) - A5-0082/2003 by Mr Staes, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, Granting of a discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the European Communities for the 2001 financial year: (Section I, European Parliament) (SEC(2002) 405 – C5-0242/2002 – 2002/2102(DEC)) - A5-0079/2003 by Mr Blak, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control: 1. on the discharge to the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year 2001 (C5-0601/2002 – 2002/2186(DEC)) 2. on the discharge to the European Foundation for the improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year 2001 (C5-0597/2002 – 2002/2187(DEC)) 3. on the discharge to the European Agency for Reconstruction for the financial year 2001 (C5-0596/2002 – 2002/2188(DEC)) - A5-0068/2003 by Mrs Langenhagen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) for the financial year 2001 (C5-0556/2002 – 2002/2185(DEC)) A5-0074/2003, by Mr Blak, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the postponement of the decision concerning discharge to the: - European Agency for Safety and Health at Work for the financial year 2001 (C5-0102/2003-2003/2046(DEC));- European Environment Agency for the financial year 2001 (C5-0098/2003-2003/2044(DEC));- Translation Centre for the bodies of the European Union for the financial year 2001 (C5-0100/2003-2003/2045(DEC));- European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction for the financial year 2001 (C5-0096/2003-2003/2043(DEC));- European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia for the financial year 2001(C5-0102/2003-2003/2046(DEC)) Does the House agree to this oral amendment being tabled? Are there any objections? We shall proceed to the vote on Amendment No 15, including the oral amendment. The rapporteur is requesting the floor. Mr Turco is requesting the floor. Is it on the same issue? I would say to the rapporteur that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the President can give him the floor at the end of the debate and it is given for one minute and a half, but the debate must not be re-opened, ladies and gentlemen. – Thank you very much, Commissioner. In any case, your response to Mr Ferber is a response to the whole House. It will appear in the Minutes. The debate is closed. – Thank you, Commissioner. On behalf of the House, I must apologise for the continual murmuring. The debate is closed. The vote will take place today at 11 a.m. This parliamentary vote has fulfilled the commitment imposed on Parliament by Parliament itself and by the European citizens to create, as quickly as possible, a legal measure to allow the EU to mobilise the necessary funds to help disaster-stricken areas. We must congratulate ourselves on this. In my opinion, however, the result could have been even better. First of all, greater transparency. What was adopted today should have been annexed to the existing interinstitutional agreement, not a new standard. Secondly, a matter of rigidity. Item 2 states that, in October, 25% of the Fund must be available as a matter of obligation. This is too rigid. If, in a given tax year, 75% is spent in spring, would the Commission have to make a recommendation that we all avoid bringing disasters on ourselves until the beginning of October? Lastly, an inconsistency on the part of the Council. In order to make the best use of appropriations, the Council asked to be able to redistribute existing appropriations, but only in the amended spending categories: Internal Spending and Pre-accession. In Internal Spending, however, there is not a single euro left to spend. Redistribution in the event of a disaster can therefore only apply to pre-accession countries. Would it not be possible to use any agricultural appropriations that are not spent during the year? Mr Sylla, I believe that the amendments have been presented correctly, in time and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and what you are making is a political objection rather than a regulatory objection. Your observation is not therefore relevant. I would ask the honourable Members not to take it into account. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0217/2003) by Mr John Bowis, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the Commission Communication on health and poverty reduction in developing countries (COM(2002) 129 – C5-0334/2002 – 2002/2178(COS)). –To end this debate, I have received six motions for resolutions presented in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The debate is closed. The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon. The debate is closed. The vote will take place at 12 noon. The next item is the joint debate on the following reports, produced on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation: - A5-0273/2003 by Mr Paul A.A.J.G. Lannoye, on the Communication from the Commission on water management in developing countries: policy and priorities for EU development cooperation (COM(2002) 132 – C5-0335/2002– 2002/2179(COS)); and - A5-0277/2003 by Mrs Luisa Morgantini, on the Communication from the Commission to the Council on trade and development – assisting developing countries to benefit from trade (COM(2002) 513 – 2002/2282(INI)). The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0354/2002) by Mrs Schroedter, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the first progress report on economic and social cohesion (COM(2002)46 – C5-0198/2002 – 2002/2094(COS)). We shall now proceed to the vote in accordance with the simplified procedure laid down in Rule 110a. – The next item is the debate on oral question (B5-0496/02) by Mr Dell'Alba et al, on the Community of Democracies. Mr President, I plead for indulgence. Indeed, this probably is my last speech in this House – at least from this seat, as I am in the Chair tomorrow and Thursday. – The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. The debate is closed. The vote will take place in the March II part-session. –I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for cancelling her return flight this evening, given that circumstances have forced us to extend the debate beyond the scheduled finishing time. She will now return tomorrow thus ensuring that the Council is represented throughout today’s debate. On behalf of Parliament, I would like to say how much we appreciate her presence here today. –The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. The next item is the joint debate on the oral questions by the PSE, Verts/ALE, ELDR and GUE/NGL political groups, to the Council (B5 0008/2004) and to the Commission (B5 0013/2004), on nuclear disarmament: Review Conference of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons of 2005 – EU work for the third NPT preparatory committee (New York, 26 April to 7 May 2004). The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0435/2003) by Mrs Sommer, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the widespread introduction and interoperability of electronic road toll systems in the Community [COM(2003) 132 – C5-0190/2003 – 2003/0081(COD)]. – The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: -by Mr Poignant (A5-0339/2002), on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on specific stability requirements for ro-ro passenger ships (COM(2002) 158 – C5-0144/2002 – 2002/0074(COD)) -by Mr Ripoll y Martínez de Bedoya (A5-0348/2002), on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive amending Council Directive 98/18/EC of 17 March 1998 on safety rules and standards for passenger ships (COM(2002) 158 – C5-0145/2002 – 2002/0075(COD)) – Madam President, this is the last budget this Parliament will approve and therefore perhaps the last one many of us will vote on. I therefore believe this is a good time to assess our budgetary work throughout this legislature and I confess that my assessment is not wholly favourable. We would like just to focus on positive aspects, such as the improvements in the budgetary procedure, the functioning of our own Committee on Budgets and the achievement of the first review of the financial perspectives since 1993. But we must not forget that the proportion the budget represents in relation to GDP has been reduced, and this is clearly insufficient in view of the Union’s objectives, and paradoxically, each year there is a surplus of appropriations as a result of poor implementation. I believe it is the duty of both the Commission and Parliament to express its opinion on the future financial perspectives so that the next Commission and the next Parliament can use them as a basis for their considerations. Despite its miserly size, the Union’s budget appears all-encompassing and I thank the general rapporteur for his cooperation in fitting in all our various requests. We note that everything from the protection of hazelnut cultivation to a pilot project for helping victims of terrorism has been included. I would like to stress that the regulations on COMs and on the Structural Funds must be complied with and the budget is not the correct stage of the procedure to amend them. Now, if there is one star issue, one objective, ladies and gentlemen, in this 2004 budget, I believe it is preparing the Union for enlargement, for the integration of 10 new States and, based on my experience of having been myself an observer in a candidate country – some years ago now – my prediction is that the integration will be a success. I would add my thanks, in particular, to Parliament for its tenacity and ambition, since the Council’s first reaction was more worthy of obsessive accountants than of politicians aware of the historic challenge facing us: the greatest and most difficult enlargement ever undergone as part of the project of European integration. The Council tried to have everything tied up, refused to review the financial perspectives for several months and has also refused to include the 25 from 1 January. I believe that would have been a political gesture worthy of consideration. Nevertheless, in an almost unprecedented display of frivolity and political demagoguery, some people have tried to cast a shadow over this central objective of the budget by presenting an unjustified amendment which would add EUR 500 million to the appropriations already planned for Iraq. Ladies and gentlemen, we have approved, and on Thursday we are going to approve in plenary session, EUR 100 million in humanitarian aid for that country. The European Commission is asking for, and can only justify, EUR 160 million for 2004 for the Community contribution to the reconstruction of Iraq. I can guarantee that many millions of European citizens who opposed this illegal war, which did not have the support of United Nations, do not understand why the European Union has to provide anything other than humanitarian aid in Iraq. I can guarantee that it will be very difficult for me to explain this to my citizens – very difficult – and the only way I can understand this amendment is as a reflection of a desire to clear a bad conscience after having supported an illegal war. Ladies and gentlemen, there is absolutely no justification for this. The only thing we can justify – now there is a United Nations Resolution – is to contribute to what the Commission is proposing to us in a reasonable manner. Furthermore, I would also like to ask – and I know that Mr Salafranca is about to speak – where the honourable Members from the European People's Party are going to get it from. From Latin America? From Asia? From Africa? From the Mediterranean? Where are you going to get it from? Because you are perfectly aware that there are no appropriations anywhere, even by stretching the flexibility instrument to its limits. I would therefore ask you to be responsible and aware and to withdraw the amendment, in order that we do not make fools of ourselves and so that the European Union may have a budget which makes it capable of dealing with enlargement and which brings peace. I would say to the honourable Member that as President I have no problem repeating votes if there is really the least reasonable doubt. I can guarantee that there is no doubt, I have declared the result entirely convinced of this and I am not going to rectify a vote whose result has already been declared.  The rapporteur is going to present a technical modification of paragraph 120 rather than an oral amendment. Thank you very much, Commissioner. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon. Ladies and gentlemen, I would be grateful if you would remain silent. The speakers deserve your consideration. I am prepared to suspend the sitting if it proves impossible to continue due to failure to comply with the principles of respect that must govern the conduct of the House.  Please be silent, or I shall be forced to request the ushers to clear the corridors at the rear. – Mr President, this is really a debate for the initiated and we are using the twelfth language of the Community, the budget. Commissioner, the Copenhagen figures, as I understand it, are budget figures, while what we are discussing now, in relation to your presentation, are financial perspective figures. In other words, the financial perspectives – the headings – may be greater than the budgetary sums approved in Copenhagen. Is this correct? Is that what the Commission is going to say, that we should take the Copenhagen figures as a minimum and go further, in case the needs are greater than the Council’s estimates? –The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. The next item is the report (A5-0249/2003) by Mr Richard Howitt, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the Communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee on participation of non-state actors in EC development policy (COM(2002) 598 – 2002/2283(INI)). The Presidency has taken note of your proposal and will communicate it to the competent authorities for their consideration. Thank you very much, Mr Patten, for your contribution and your efforts in a climate which has not always been very easy. I have received motion for a resolution B5-0049/2004, tabled pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The debate is closed. The vote will take place today, Thursday. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. Thank you very much, Commissioner. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. – Mr Santini, I would point out that your comments do not count as comments on the Minutes, because comments on the Minutes deal with what has been said during the sitting. You are repeating a request, and there is another procedure in our Rules of Procedure for obtaining this information. However, I myself can tell you – although I am stretching the Rules of Procedure – that Mrs Ghilardotti’s request was duly communicated to the Office of the President, who will communicate it to the competent Belgian authorities. –The next item is the Commission Statement on the ‘Authorisation of generic medicines at WTO level’. Commissioner Lamy has the floor once again. In accordance with the agenda – and I would also go as far as to say in homage to the Greek Presidency – we will proceed to the Commission Statement on the Northern Dimension. I understand, Mr Patten, that we all have problems with the timetable and I would therefore be grateful if the honourable Members could be as brief as possible, since there are problems with flight connections which affect the Commissioner himself. The next item is the debate on the second report (A5-0370/2003) by Mr Queiró, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions  European Defence  Industrial and market issues  Towards an EU Defence Equipment Policy (COM(2003) 113  2003/2096(INI)). –  Madam President, only a few stalwarts are in the House at present. Nonetheless, history has shown that the budget is the cornerstone of representative democracies. They can only flourish if Parliament controls the sovereign’s expenditure. We are on the point of adopting the first European constitution. The Union has been in existence for 46 years and budgetary powers have remained unchanged for the last 30. I therefore believe updating is imperative. Several points are now obsolete. In addition, if the treaty were applied to the letter it would not be in line with the reality of present day budgets. Mr Garriga Polledo referred to budgetary perspectives a moment ago. There is no provision for these in the treaty, though the Council often seems to be unaware of that fact. Ladies and gentlemen, the constitution must encompass the budgetary process and own resources. The mantra of seventeenth century revolutions was ‘’. Precisely the opposite applies in the European Union. There is strong democratic representation in the form of this House, but taxation is not approved democratically. Essentially, the own resources system amounts to national contributions by another name, even though these are legally the Union’s own resources. This cannot be allowed to continue. Resources should henceforth come directly from the citizen. The citizen would then understand that taxes are destined to the Union’s budget. This is a basic feature of democratic responsibility. Otherwise, Finance Ministers will go on collecting the money and the Community will go on spending it and the reasons will remain unclear. This is bad for democratic control. It is therefore necessary to move towards a system enabling this connection to be made without increasing the total tax burden on the citizens. Personal and possibly progressive taxation should be introduced. It would then no longer be possible to allege, as is often the case, that unemployed citizens in eastern Germany are subsidising large landowners in Andalusia. Please excuse this crude simplification. The result is unhealthy populism. It is essential to ensure that it will no longer be possible to distinguish between the various countries’ contributions under any future financial system. A citizen’s contribution should be based on his or her personal resources. It should not depend on his or her place of residence. In my view, this must be a key feature of the new approach, that is, of the new way of tackling the system of resources. Madam President, this is the main point the Socialist Group wishes to make. Other honourable Members will speak on further aspects of our stance. – The next item is the Council and Commission statements on preparation for the EU-Russia summit. Mr Yiannitsis, President-in-Office of the Council, has the floor. I would like to greet a delegation of 15 members of the upper and lower houses of parliaments in Mercosur countries (Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay) seated in the gallery. The delegation is headed by Mr Alfredo Atanasof, a Member of the Argentinian Parliament and Chairman of the Mercosur Joint Parliamentary Committee. Our guests are here to participate in the Sixth Interparliamentary Conference of the European Parliament and the Mercosur Joint Parliamentary Committee. The conference takes place today and tomorrow in Strasbourg. As you know, the European Union and Mercosur are negotiating an agreement on economic collaboration, political coordination and cooperation. It is my great pleasure to welcome this delegation and wish the Interparliamentary Conference every success. Ladies and gentlemen, I must also inform you that the debate on the Council declaration concerning the position of the European Union on the hearing in the International Court of Justice on the Israeli wall will be delayed until 3 p.m. so that we can proceed to the votes in the next few minutes. The next item is the statements by the High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy and by the Commission on the security strategy for the European Union, including implementation of the United Nations programme to combat the illegal trade in light weapons. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0338/2002) by Mr Lagendijk, on behalf of the Committee of Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy on the Commission’s report on ‘The Stabilisation and Association Process for South East Europe – First Annual Report’. – Ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of interparliamentary relations, it is my great pleasure to welcome a delegation from the Syrian Parliament. The delegation is led by Mr Abdul Kader Kaddoura, Speaker of the Syrian Parliament. This is his second visit to the European Parliament.  In welcoming Mr Kaddoura and his delegation, I should like to highlight the importance we attach to this visit. It is the first of its kind to the European Parliament since 1983. Syria is the last remaining country in the Mediterranean basin with whom an Association Agreement has not yet been finalised. Negotiations between the Commission and Syria have been continued since 1997. I am informed that a very positive atmosphere reigned at the most recent meeting, last week. Further, contact between the Syrian Parliament and the European Parliament could trigger ongoing dialogue within the Euromed Forum. We trust this visit will help to strengthen links between the European Parliament and the Syrian Parliament. Mr Kaddoura, I very much hope that the meetings you and the members of your delegation held proved fruitful. I hope too that they will signal the start of a new era in which the people of Syria and the European Union will come closer to each other. Ladies and gentlemen, you are perfectly aware that this is not a debate. It is not appropriate to speak here about the fundamental issue. – The joint debate is closed. The vote will take place on 26 February 2004 in Brussels. –The debate is closed. Mrs Zabell, as in all cases, the services will guarantee that the version ultimately published will conform to what has been voted for in plenary. The Spanish version will be corrected. We shall now proceed to the vote on:  Mr Vallvé is requesting the floor for an oral amendment. Thank you very much for your cooperation, Mr Blak. As the honourable Members know – particularly those in the Committee on Budgetary Control – each second of plenary session costs almost EUR 10. I therefore assume that you will value the time available to you. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0397/2003) by Mr Lagendijk, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the Stabilisation and Association Process for South East Europe: Second Annual Report (COM(2003) 139  2003/2094(INI)). Mr Parish, I take good note and I will be very happy when the citizens of Gibraltar can vote for the Westminster Parliament first. The Group of the Party of European Socialists does not agree to that omission. The amendment will therefore be put to the vote in its original form. We shall now proceed to the vote on the whole of the proposal for a resolution, including amendments.  ***   ***   ***   ***   ***   *** The debate is closed. The vote will take place next Thursday. I thank the honourable Member. The President is tolerant towards rapporteurs, but you have exceeded your speaking time by fifty percent and your fellow Members will complain. I would be grateful if you would conform to the specified time. We take note but, institutionally, the correct procedure was to hear the chairman of the committee and you as author of the amendment. We are therefore going to vote firstly on the proposed compromise by the chairman of the committee. –Ladies and gentlemen, I must point out to you that a further 26 minutes of this debate remain. Provided we keep to the timetable, there is time for all the groups to have the floor for the time requested. I am sure you will understand that I need to be very strict over speaking time. I would ask you all please to remain silent out of respect for the speaker, otherwise the debate will become much more complicated. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0386/2002) by Mrs Langenhagen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on Special Report No 2/2002 of the Court of Auditors on the Socrates and Youth for Europe Community action programmes (RCC0002/2002 – C5-0257/2002 – 2002/2125(COS)). –The nextitem is the Commission statement on the financing of the nuclear sector in the context of the programme for nuclear weapons. The floor is yours, Commissioner. –The next item is the statement by the Commission on the neighbours of the enlarged Europe: a new framework for relations with the neighbours to the east and south. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you of a slight change in the order of business. The next item will be the statement by the Commission, and the debate will continue until 5.45 p.m. Question Time will follow at 5.45 p.m. Thank you very much, Mr Solana. The debate is closed. – Thank you very much, Mr Schnellhardt. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. Mr Staes has the floor for a point of order. I am going to apply Rule 138(5) of the Rules of Procedure, which gives that final responsibility to the President, and I therefore consider the result I declared previously to be valid. I would insist that I believe that this is more of a technical correction. Does anybody object to the presentation of the rapporteur’s oral amendment? If not, we shall proceed to the vote. – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am grateful for your words but not for their content. In other words, I appreciate your concern but not the content of the information you have offered. This cannot be due to lack of time because I asked this question to the Council three months ago and it did not reply in writing. It did not reply within the time period laid down and is replying now, orally, two months late. Do you not think, Mr President-in-Office, that a census of European citizens sentenced to death throughout the world would be a very useful tool in the defence of the right to life, so that the political institutions of the European Union may be in a position to defend that right to life? Do you not think that it is rather difficult to accept that an economic and political power such as Europe, which is capable of building satellites, of sending men to the moon, of creating a single currency, that is to say, an important power, is not capable of knowing how many European citizens are sentenced to death in the world? Do you not think that this is rather difficult for the European citizens to understand? I know that we require the commitment of the Member States, but do you not think that what we basically need is a political will which, until now, I have not seen from any quarter? –  Mr President, I believe I have followed the Rules of Procedure. I have put a supplementary question to the President-in-Office of the Council. As Mr Ortuondo Larrea is aware, here I represent the Group of the Party of European Socialists, and, I repeat, I put a supplementary question to the President adhering extremely closely, I believe, to the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ortuondo Larrea, I believe that if the Rules of Procedure were applied as correctly as I apply them, we would probably not be discussing your question, as you have based it on a fallacy. You talk about a State, a Basque Country that exists only in mythology or in your head and, in fact, asking the Council about something that does not exist may be all very well for a discussion around the fireside, but … –  Madam President, the two provisions we are debating today respond to both a conviction and an objective: the conviction that we can defeat terrorism and our objective to strengthen the Rule of Law, providing all the instruments necessary to achieve this. In a democracy, political ideas are put to the test in the voting booth, and not put forward by terrorists. I am sure that all my fellow Members are of this opinion. I would like to clearly point out what will be changed by these two initiatives when they are adopted by the Laeken European Council : firstly, Europe will cease to ‘show solidarity with’ and instead be ‘responsible for’. The solidarity of Europeans with Spanish democrats in their fight against ETA will give way to the responsibility of all European democrats to defeat terrorism. Secondly, and with regard to the European search and arrest warrant, agreements between governments will be replaced with recognition and cooperation between their various judicial systems. An injunction will have to be able to be executed without delay, whether it has been issued by a Spanish judge or a French judge, against an individual who is sought in one or other of the countries. To make my position clear, I feel there should be no more disgraceful spectacles such as the one that took place at Olano. As well as thinking about the future, however, I cannot help but think with a certain degree of bitterness that these two provisions have come far too late, for the victims. How different their lives would have been if we had done this earlier! If only this had been done ten years ago, I am sure that ETA would, by now, have been defeated, and that many of my close friends who have been murdered by ETA would still be here with us, still taking their children to school, giving lectures, writing articles for the press, administering justice, representing their voters. I would, therefore, ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to reflect upon this tomorrow before you vote. I would like you to consider that the consequences of this will not only be political, but will, more than anything, be of a human nature, and I would ask the Council to rise, in political terms, to this occasion, and not to miss this opportunity. There are those that think that politics is the art of the possible. My opinion is that the purpose of politics is to make what is necessary possible. I trust that the Fifteen will share this opinion. I assure you that the defeat of terrorism is possible, and, ladies and gentlemen, you do not realise just how necessary this is. – Madam President, the only thing I can say in under a minute is that I am thoroughly in favour of the International Criminal Court, but I shall say one more thing. The International Criminal Court will act as a brake on dictatorships and a shield against injustice. It is well known that impunity is a breeding ground for dictatorships and criminals. The International Criminal Court responds to a demand from millions of citizens all over the world, who see the impunity of crimes as a violation of their most fundamental rights. The International Criminal Court is, lastly, an essential instrument against impunity, which is encouraged by the immunity demanded by the United States. We cannot, nor do we wish to, yield to pressure from the United States. Tomorrow, the European Parliament will show by means of its resolution that we are jointly responsible for this International Criminal Court and that we are aware that, in the field of human rights, it is impossible to be neutral. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having heard Mr Gorostiaga’s words, I simply wanted to ask this House a question. How long are we going to put up with the indignity of one of our Members, under the protection of his position as an elected Member of Parliament for one of the Member States – Spain – taking the floor every time there is a terrorist attack and a condemnation by this House to play down the attack, to justify the crimes and to side with the murderers. How long are we going to put up with this indignity, Mr President? – I regret the so-called reply which has been given to me because are we to conclude from the words of Mr Sasi that the Spanish authorities were acting correctly on 8 July when they expelled those 100 Romanian Gypsy families? No, we do not conclude that. They did not act in the defence of public order, they did not defend human rights and they did not safeguard national security. They did not act according to principles of justice and fairness, nor did they act with respect for human rights. No, the Spanish authorities only gave one response: the violent response towards refugees, the unacceptable response, democratically unacceptable. The Spanish authorities acted against that European spirit which is the driving force behind the European Charter of Fundamental Rights which affects all of us, Members of the Council. They acted in a way which shames and embarrasses us as Europeans and democrats. Facts such as these once again illustrate the urgency with which we require a common policy in this area; an equitable and basically civil common policy for the control and acceptance of immigrants. For this reason, we eagerly await the Tampere Summit. We require an initiative and a commitment which affects all of us, even the most reluctant of governments, which is, unfortunately, the case with the Spanish government in this field. I will go further. We hope that any abuse and any violation of human rights will be punished, and that we do not fail to respond when the responsibility falls to us, which is currently the case. Furthermore, if the perpetrator of the violation, Members of the Council, is a democratic government, ladies and gentlemen, there is no third way or means of escape in the defence of human rights, not even by giving a reply in this Parliament. We are either in favour of human rights or, quite simply, we are against them. –  Mr President, last Thursday while we were presenting a written declaration to the Parliament register through which we sought a direct and active commitment from the European Parliament in the fight against ETA terrorism, this criminal organisation attempted to kill José Ramón Recalde. Recalde, a 70-year-old socialist, has dedicated his life to defending democracy and freedom. This is something he pursued as a teacher in San Sebastian in the turbulent 1960s, when he became, in the eyes of his students, an example of intellectual rigour and human decency. During the Franco years he was also founder of the first ‘ikastolas’ – schools in which the Basque language is taught – and later combined his teaching role with a position in two of the autonomous coalition governments with the nationalists, as Minister of Education and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, his past life as a freedom fighter, defender of understanding and tolerance is what has made him a prime target for ETA, which serves as one more example of the obscene behaviour of this terrorist group. What is more, ladies and gentlemen, the damage inflicted on us by ETA goes beyond damage to our coexistence, to the attacks on our freedom and on our lives. The terrorists and their accomplices have projected a completely distorted image of my country, its people and history. Therefore – to paraphrase the Basque philosopher Savater – I hope you do not mind if I take this opportunity to speak about the realities of the Basque country, to help you understand the situation. I was born 48 years ago in Euskadi, where I have lived all my life. Euskadi is a beautiful country that is modern, open, full of kind people and tolerant. It is a hybrid and diverse country, and this is our greatest asset. The young people who live there are not so different to the young people of Germany, Belgium or Italy. They speak Spanish, Euskera, English, German and Italian. They surf the net. They participate actively in peaceful organisations and organisations dedicated to development cooperation, sexual equality, ecology and the environment. Only a few young Basque people choose to wear black hoods. The majority paint their hands white to defend their freedom in peaceful street demonstrations. These people, unlike those of my generation, were born into a democracy, but unlike their young counterparts in the rest of the European Union, they still have to defend their freedom and that of others against the terrorists. Yes, ETA has spent more than 20 years killing in a campaign against democracy. Yes, it was over 20 years ago that Spain regained its democracy and with it we Basques reclaimed our right to self-government: we voted in favour of it in a referendum in 1979. But before that, in 1977, there was a general amnesty in Spain and all political prisoners, among them all members of ETA that had been imprisoned during the Franco years, were freed. Since 1977, however, ETA has continued to kill, murdering hundreds of victims – 19 of whom were children between the ages of 2 and 16. Those murdered have ranged from the police to the military, town councillors, businessmen, journalists, teachers, pacifists, taxi drivers, shopkeepers and bicycle sellers. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the kind of people who have fallen victim to ETA. In some parts of the Basque Country ETA and its support network are pushing for the ethnic cleansing of those of us that do not espouse nationalist political opinions, depriving us of our status as Basque citizens and chasing us from our towns, forcing us to remain silent. We are always ready to talk to those who play by the rules of the democratic game. All ideas can be defended through the spoken word. Nothing is set in stone. Everything is subject to change, but we shall never accept terrorism as an instrument for changing our will. Those who kill in the belief that this approach will work must lose all hope. Democracy and human rights are the very  of the European Union. This is why whenever fascist and totalitarian acts committed by ETA in one part of Europe strip us of our freedom, people elsewhere in Europe must feel that our freedom, everyone’s freedom – whatever a person’s nationality, language, culture or religion – is under threat.  Ladies and gentlemen, I simply wanted to say that the people of the Basque Country are normal, ordinary people, who are anxious to find a way out of this impasse, and be free to walk around our towns without watching our backs. Our young people do not want to have to demonstrate in the streets and paint their hands white. We simply want to live in peace and defend our freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will all show your active solidarity and help us be like the other citizens of Europe. –  Mr President, in spite of Mr Dupuis’ gloomy forecast, the UN Commission on Human Rights conference in Geneva is a new opportunity to make progress on ensuring that human rights are respected, promoted and safeguarded. We have known for quite a while now that suffering, poverty, human rights violations, persecution on the grounds of sex, sexual orientation, religion, culture or race are global phenomena. Millions of human beings have to suffer these affronts every single day. 11 September reminded us that the breakdown of security is also a global phenomenon. This latest conference in Geneva, the first since that fateful day, should not, therefore, cause us to lose sight of our aims. We have to continue working to defend citizens’ rights: the right to life, to democracy, to breathe clean air and to live in an environment in which economic and social rights are respected as an inseparable element of human rights. We must not forget that the balance between security and freedom is not only a demand that is coherent with our shared history, but that it is the only thing that can guarantee stability and, therefore, democracy. Europe must play a leading role in this conference. We have to be capable of defending a common position. Now, more than ever before, human rights must effectively be the backbone of EU policy. If we want to achieve this goal we need to have more political ambition and a single, forceful and radical voice against those who violate human rights. A voice that will be heard in Geneva and which makes us proud to be European. I know that this seems to be a Utopian vision, and appears difficult to achieve, and it is, but, as Guy Verhofstadt reminded us when he took office as President-in-Office of the Council under the Belgian Presidency: ‘he who does not believe in Utopia does not deserve to be called European’. – Mr President, holding a Presidency is always an opportunity for a country to demonstrate its commitment to a common cause which is no less than moving European integration forward in a way that benefits the citizens. Mr Aznar, I know that you have a difficult job, that the international context, in political and economic terms, is complicated and furthermore, as has been said, that the Belgian Presidency has set a very high standard. But have no doubt, Mr President, that the Spanish Socialists will cooperate unreservedly in making the Presidency a success for Spain and for Europe. There will never ever be disloyalty from our side. Others may show some. We hope that you do it well, because we want this Presidency to give Spain prestige within Europe. Therefore, Mr President, your personal effort and that of the members of your government will have to rise to the occasion. Mr President, in your communication you have listed Europe’s current priorities. Enlargement, the Lisbon process, the international coalition for freedoms and against terrorism, the single area of security and justice, the external policy, relations with the Mediterranean countries, the role of Europe in Latin America: that is your agenda, Mr President. But we Socialists would have liked to hear you make some specific commitment, an ambitious initiative relating to some of these issues. For example, we would have liked it if, when talking about the Lisbon process, you had stressed the social aspects. Because the Lisbon process agreed a strategic objective which, together with the construction of a more prosperous and competitive economic area, included the objectives of full employment and greater cohesion. Please commit yourself, Mr President, to making all the coordination methods relating to these social agenda strategies increasingly Community methods. Associate the European Parliament, the unions and employers with this process. In our view, this would mean more Europe. I will give another example: the Mediterranean and Latin America are European priorities, but a good Spanish Presidency, given its special closeness and relations with these two regions, should be able to put the emphasis on them. Nevertheless, we do not notice in your programme concrete initiatives to revitalise dialogue and cooperation beyond the creation of the Euro-Mediterranean Development Bank, which by the way was foreseen in 1995 in Barcelona and later in Laeken. You do not tell us how or when you are going to conclude the negotiations with Mercosur and with Chile. We note the lack of concrete commitments. Mr President, we are glad that you have chosen the motto ‘More Europe’, and not because it is a classic of the Socialist family. I will tell you now that we will not judge you by the number of meetings you hold in six months, but we will judge you on the results. So you must move on from words to actions, Mr President. What do you mean by more Europe? I imagine that it will not be, as Minister Piqué said, that Europe should speak with a single voice in 2050, because, as country folk would say, ‘that is a journey that requires no saddlebags’. I am truly impressed by the ambition of the Minister for External Affairs. More Europe means more security, but also more freedom. More Europe means more employment but also less inequality. More Europe means more democracy and more participation. More Europe also means a Europe that is more active in the defence of human rights. More Europe, in summary, also means less nationalism, of either the old type or the new type. Mr President, if you act in this way, we will be the first to applaud you. We want you to be successful and we want to celebrate your success together. – Mr President, I will naturally begin by reiterating our solidarity with the Members from the Popular Party, while at the same time – although I find it difficult to say – pointing out that our democratic response today in the face of this latest murder should be to overcome our grief and continue working in this House, as we are at the moment. Once upon a time there was a British nuclear submarine called the Tireless. While sailing through Sicilian waters, back in the month of May, its nuclear heart showed worrying signs of deterioration. Those in charge of the submarine tried to have it admitted into a hospital, classified as suitable for providing treatment, of which they were coproprietors, at that time a NATO base. But the director of the hospital did not authorise the admission. The submarine sailed on, infecting the waters of the Mediterranean on the way, until it arrived at an agreed hospital called Gibraltar. There, showing themselves to be fully in charge, they parked it. In order that it might be admitted, they said that the illness was not serious. When, by means of the medical dispatch which they distributed in the country where the owner lived – that is, by means of the British press – it was discovered that the illness was serious, instead of changing hospitals, they changed the classification of the hospital. A patient was admitted to a first aid centre and, when it was discovered that it did not have flu, but a serious illness, a painter was employed to change the sign on the door and put ‘Hospital’ where before it had said ‘Health Centre’. However, that strategy was not enough to prevent all the patients and their families from finding out that they had admitted an infectious patient and from knowing that there was a risk of catching the disease. Then the lies and manoeuvrings began: the lies – or silences – of the person who had admitted it and the lies and silences of the person in charge of health in the area. Because, while the owner of the submarine told us something different every day, the person in charge of health in the area did whatever he wanted. He even told us jokes about the yellow submarine or about jurisdiction in the area. To top it all, it was at that time that the population most directly affected discovered that, some time before, that same country which owned the submarine had, for ten years, deceived all Europeans about mad cow disease. Ladies and gentlemen, this situation cannot be allowed to continue. Citizens’ associations, social organisations, local authorities and autonomous communities have asked both this Parliament’s Committee on Petitions and the Commission to intervene and protect them. Europe and its institutions cannot remain on the outside. There is considerable and understandable alarm, the consequence of a perverse double combination of stubbornness and incompetence: The stubbornness of those people who refuse to alter their initial position and the incompetence of those who are unable to vigorously defend the health and safety of hundreds of thousands of European citizens who live in the area. I am not being alarmist. It would be alarming if we failed to act immediately in this situation. Every day there are statements to the effect that there are reasons not to authorise the repair of the Tireless in Gibraltar. Let us not wait any longer. Let us accept the situation once and for all and take the submarine, with every possible safeguard, to a British port which fulfils the requirements for its repair, before it is too late; before the Tireless ends up wearing all of us citizens and Europeans out. – Mr President, in the European Parliament’s resolution dated 14 December 2000 concerning the indictment of General Pinochet and the consolidation of democracy in Chile we stated clearly that the best way for the European Union to support the process of consolidating democracy in Chile was through an ambitious agreement on political reconciliation and economic association and cooperation. Particular emphasis was to be laid on the human rights clause. I believe we should congratulate ourselves on the speed, consistency and high degree of consensus with which Parliament, through the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has risen to this challenge. The proposals have already been outlined by both rapporteurs. I therefore only wish to highlight two points. Firstly, as previously mentioned, the crucial importance of the legal basis of the new association agreement for the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This basis must be Article 310 of the Treaty. A number of reasons for this have already been given, notably that this legal basis guarantees Parliament’s assent. Secondly, I must stress that the Committee on Foreign Affairs feels it is crucially important that the conclusion of these agreements should not be conditional on the outcome of the World Trade Organisation round. On this point, perhaps Commissioner Patten could let us know his views as to how the differences over agriculture might be overcome, particularly as regards Mercosur. On the subject of these two recommendations, I should also like to highlight how the Committee on Foreign Affairs has contrived to imbue both proposals with a markedly political spirit. This is doubtless the result of the committee’s composition and outlook. Issues relating to foreign affairs and cooperation have been emphasised over and above the tendency to stress the importance of economic and trade relations. The latter are no less important but must not dominate. We are fully aware that whatever the pace of negotiations, strengthening the political nature of our relations with Mercosur and also the process of integration could impact on Chile. This might serve to counter the influence of the United States in political, economic and commercial relations with Chile, and also the plan to relaunch the American Free Trade Agreement. We would therefore be well advised to carefully monitor any action the new United States administration might take in this regard. I should also like to congratulate the Commission and Mr Patten for keeping faith with his predecessor, Mr Marín. They have shown great loyalty and responsibility – I would term it political responsibility – in being true to the outline of the initiative launched by him. Lastly, I would like to put a question to Mr Patten, though he has just left. He is well aware of the importance of the nature of the parliamentary cooperation to be set up between Chile, Mercosur and the European Parliament for the institutional development of the agreements. I should like to let him know in advance that like many other members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs I favour a model along the lines of that set up under the Europe Agreements. That model is based on joint parliamentary committees with a view to improving the current system of delegations. I would like to know what the Commission and Mr Patten’s views on the matter are. – Mr President, in the Basque Country and in Spain people like myself are accompanied by escorts. People like myself are murdered by people who demonstrate alongside Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso in the streets, who shout at us and who shout ‘ETA, kill them’. What he has said puts me in danger. People like him live comfortably in the Basque Country and I want them to carry on living comfortably, but what he has said puts my life and the lives of many people like me in danger. What I want this House to understand, please, is that all we Spanish constitutionalists want is to be as free as Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso and to be as sure as him that we are going to get home at night to see our children. We want to have his same liberty, his same security, but we do not have it, Mr President. It is unacceptable that he should use this democratic House to threaten us with death, since that is what I feel he is doing, Mr President. He and his accomplices know what I am talking about. It is indecent to have to hear in this House the words of a person who demonstrates in the streets alongside torturers and murderers. – Mr President, the terrorist attacks of 11 September have meant that our debate on the need for Community action to combat terrorism is now extremely topical. We are still overwhelmed by the horrendous pictures, the horrendous truth and their grave consequences now and, we imagine and fear, for the future. Quite apart from the effect on the economy or on world political relations, however, thousands of people have died, thousands have lost their parents, children, spouses, friends and loved ones. I would like to dedicate my first words to those people who are suffering, to the victims: they, the victims, must be present in our future deliberations and decisions. Because we owe a debt to all of them. We will have to act so that justice is done and in order to prevent, through action or omission, more innocent victims. We know that something has to be done, that there has to be a response, a just, democratic, proportionate response, but a response nevertheless, because terrorists cannot be allowed to have, or believe they have, impunity and because we are obliged to assure the citizens that, living under the rule of law, we have the necessary instruments to defend their life, freedom and security. I cannot and will not ignore the fact that I am Basque. I would rather have not had this experience in this field, I would do anything not to have had it, but I have. I know that international cooperation is the right approach, that the initiatives presented today by Commissioner Vitorino are the right approach: political cooperation, judicial cooperation, police cooperation. Joint responsibility in dealing with terrorism is our main, most effective, political response. Ladies and gentlemen, terrorism – as has already been said – has no borders, no homeland, no religion and no ideology. It has a common objective and method. They have never wanted peace. They have always sought to destroy us, to destroy democracy. I therefore say to them that what the Commission has decided today, what has been approved today, is historic. Allow me to describe it as such. The necessary step has been taken to move on from solidarity, which is necessary but insufficient, to common action by all. Thank you very much, Mr Vitorino, and thank you to all of you for this decision. –  Madam President, Parliament knows, because we have said it many times and today we have explained it to some of you, that in presenting and defending an agreement in favour of freedoms and against terrorism in the Basque Country, we are defending and presenting an agreement which goes beyond the merely political field, since it is an agreement in defence of freedoms, in defence of life, in defence of pluralism. There may be people who do not support this agreement; there may be people who criticise it; there has even been one organisation – the terrorist organisation ETA, of course – which has threatened to kill the signatories, and those people who might sign it later, for defending it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, despite all of this, we will always continue to defend freedoms. We will always continue to defend the right of any citizen of the Basque Country, whether they are in favour of autonomy or of independence, to be able to move around our country without escorts. I want no more and no less than Mr Gorostiaga does: I want to move around my country with my children, like they do, without having to take escorts. –  Mr de Miguel, I am glad to hear you speak again. I heard you yesterday, when you did indeed announce that the Presidency intends to convene the Council, and today you remind us that the review of the agreement with Israel has to be adopted unanimously. I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council this: what is the Spanish Presidency’s position? – Mr President, as made clear in the speeches both by the Presidency and by those party spokespeople who have spoken, Seville will be the last summit of the Spanish Presidency and, although this is not the time to draw up the final balance sheet, this is the time to take a brief look at how it has performed its duties and to see whether we are likely to pass or even to get a good mark. It could be said that these five months have been characterised by an excessive fuss about most of the issues set as priorities for the Presidency’s term in office. There has been a great deal of fuss about enlargement, about immigration, about Mediterranean policy, about fisheries policy and the reform of agricultural policy, about external policy, about transatlantic relations, etc. It cannot be denied, Mr President, that we have talked about everything: sustainable development, the spirit of Lisbon, the institutionalisation of the Union, the outermost regions... but if we look at the progress that has been made on any of the issues I have just mentioned – we will reach the conclusion that a major imbalance has been created between what is said and what is done. As they say, Mr President, there has been much ado about nothing. I know that on some issues – perhaps on many of them – the Presidency has alibis, but the fact is that we are approaching the end of the Presidency with a more complicated agenda than when we started and with more confusion. On the issue of immigration and asylum, for example, for more than a month, we have been repeating, ad nauseam, the conclusions of the Tampere Council; commitments that the Council has been unable to fulfil due to a lack of political will. Nothing new is being said. Everything has already been said and agreed upon but there has been such a fanfare of trumpets that you would think we had come up with something new for the Seville Summit. With regard to employment policy, all I can fairly say is that Barcelona threw the spirit of Lisbon off course. No account was taken of the fact that Lisbon’s strategic objective was not only to create a more prosperous and competitive economic area; the other objectives were full employment and greater social cohesion, and this is where a step backwards has been taken. What can we say about the major challenge laid down by the Swedish Presidency: sustainable development? This is a representative example of what has not been achieved. The resolution of the Barcelona Summit mentioned sustainability 103 times. Are there any higher offers? The Valencia Summit was a success in that it took place. I know that the climate in the Middle East was not the most favourable, but we were not even able to press ahead with one of the few tangible priorities of the Spanish Presidency, the Euro-Mediterranean Bank. With regard to transatlantic relations, it has already been said – Mr Poettering said this himself – that we have never had so many ongoing disputes with the USA, such as, for example, the trade and industry issues, the failure to ratify the Kyoto Protocol, the divergent positions on the Middle East, the belligerent position of the USA towards the International Criminal Court, which makes them feel that they can threaten us with intervening if a member of the American military is put on trial in the Netherlands. It looks as if the States no longer respect us on the world stage. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a comment on the institutional reforms: the world has become a very complicated place, globalisation requires increasingly strong global institutions and policies that are increasingly close to the citizens, but the Spanish Presidency – and it genuinely pains me to say this – has been characterised by contradictory and misguided responses to these challenges and in this area: more renationalisation, less European government; and this will not help us to solve any of the problems facing Europe. Cutting back on the powers of our common institutions is a defensive reaction that can only lead to failure. This is, Mr President, the most sordid form of nationalism, and 'More Europe' means less nationalism, both of the old style and ofthenew To conclude, it could be said that, to date, we are quite dissatisfied, but that we would like nothing more than to change our minds and, in the days remaining, in the final stretch, for you to surprise us and for more light to appear and for some shadows to vanish. As I said to President Aznar on 16 January in this very Parliament, I should like nothing more than to be able to congratulate you when it is all over. – Mr President, I feel that Mr Galeote has made personal comments about me, in my capacity as President of the Spanish Socialists in this House. I would ask him to withdraw his falsities and slurs. I really do not understand Mr Galeote. I do not understand why Mr Galeote is determined to turn a European debate into a Spanish debate. I do not understand why he provokes us, I do not understand this narrow nationalist attitude, trying to bring about a debate amongst Spaniards, when what we should do is resolve – as the Commissioner has said – a problem which is European and which should be resolved from a European perspective. However, Mr Galeote, from one Spaniard to another, I will define what I think of your attitude by means of two traditional sayings. The first is that ‘offence is not caused by those who want to but by those who can’, and the second, which is also very traditional and descriptive, because we all have memories and we all have history, Mr Galeote, is that ‘the thief believes that everybody is like him’. History has recorded what your attitudes have been and what our attitudes have been and still are, the attitudes of the Spanish Socialists here in this Parliament and those of the Spanish Socialists down there, in the Spanish Parliament. –  Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have, in effect, told us that there is a new piece of legislation, an emergency decree that will allow some formalities to be completed more quickly. Mr de Miguel, I do not want the Council to change its mind, and I also believe that we need to protect children, but, do you not think that our governments could at least be as effective as their American counterparts? You are well aware that in February, after a visit from the Romanian President to the United States, and pursuant to this new decree and this new legislation, nineteen children were given up to American families for adoption. Do you not think that, once this decree is in force and we have removed barriers to adoption, keeping a close eye, of course, on the children involved, but also asking the Romanian Government to ensure equal treatment for European families, the solution lies in properly exerted political pressure? Do you not think that if Mr Aznar were to include this issue in his agenda once again, if he were to pick up the telephone, if he were to establish political contact at a high level, this issue – which affects at least 17 Spanish families that have already been allocated children – the barriers would be removed, as has been the case for the Americans? I think it would, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I would ask him to do this. – Mr President, following the attacks on 11 September, it is incumbent upon us to come up with a response appropriate to this tremendous challenge, to ensure justice is done and to prevent further attacks. Europe’s response must amount to more than the solidarity called for earlier in the House. It must be an active response, defending specific values. I am not referring, as Mr Berlusconi might, to Western values or to Christian civilisation. I have in mind genuine democratic values. These must be defended wherever the freedom to do so exists. Where it does not, they must be established and nurtured. Success can only be guaranteed through long-term support by the governments committed to this fight. In the face of the serious threat to humanity terrorism represents, we are called upon to take action and to get it right. We must abide by the rules when taking action against those who have no rules. We have to get it right, but getting it right cannot in this context mean taking spectacular action. Getting it right has to mean identifying those responsible and dealing with the key figures. It involves destroying their networks and preventing them from organising new ones. All this takes time, and calls for cooperation between judges and police at international level, together with mutual political trust between governments. It will be a long and difficult process but believe me, it is the only way to defend democracy from fanaticism and barbarism. A genuine common foreign security and defence policy for the European Union is called for. The Union also needs a common approach to legal and home affairs. The European search and arrest warrant will be an essential element of this but by no means the only one. Clearly, this joint European action requires us to set ourselves high standards. No European leader should jeopardise the joint response, as Mr Berlusconi’s government has just done. The legislation it has recently endorsed is diametrically opposed to the approach adopted by this House. It is also in opposition to the 21 September Council resolution we all applauded here today. I should like to put some questions to the Council and the Commission. What action will the Council take to ensure that it speaks with one voice, as Mr Michel was saying this morning? Also, how does it intend to deal with that thorn in its flesh, namely the Berlusconi doctrine? – Mr President, I congratulate the Commission on its firm position; it has our full support. Mr Haarder, it is true that nothing is to be gained from regrets, but neither is anything to be gained from avoiding consideration of problems and concerns. The good news is that 76 States have ratified the Statute, but the bad news is this intolerable and intolerant attitude of the United States to the international system of justice which is aimed at putting an end to impunity. President Bush has waged a campaign of harassment against the Court and against the countries which have signed or ratified its statute, which is completely unacceptable. Only arrogance, ignorance and pride – the three things together – can explain a reaction like the one which has led the two Houses to approve the law we are talking about. It is outrageous. At least they have said that they will not invade the Netherlands. The Union, Parliament and all the European institutions must state as firmly as possible that we will not tolerate such arbitrary behaviour; not the invasion, but the arbitrary nature of the law itself. We must demand that the members of the United Nations Security Council defend the integrity of the new Court and we must prevent the United States from using its capacity for manoeuvre in the Security Council to undermine a text which they never liked, incorporating blanket protection for United States troops and civilian staff. The Statute of Rome is based on the principle of complementarity and offers every safeguard against the inappropriate use of the Court. I am sure that when it comes into operation some people will be reassured. We must urge the sensible members – as Commissioner Byrne called them – of the United States Congress and Senate to prevent the said law from entering into force. If they are not going to ratify the Statute, at least they should refrain from adopting measures to disturb or hinder its operation. The prosecutor at the Nuremberg trials, Benjamin B. Ferencz, said that there can be no peace without justice, no justice without law, and no meaningful law without courts to decide what is fair and legitimate in any particular circumstance. Millions of citizens the world over believe that this International Criminal Court responds to that aspiration. Let us not allow anybody to ruin it, not even the United States. – Madam President, I will begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Watson, in particular, and naturally all the members of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms, for their work, their cooperation and their efforts on this report which today we are going to firstly study and support, and then vote for. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel happy today as a Basque, as a Spaniard and as a European. I am happy because Europe has understood that when ETA violates human rights, when organised Basque fascism commits xenophobic crime and ideological cleansing, when this terrorist organisation, which in Spain today represents the final dying embers of Franco’s legacy, continues to operate, based within Europe itself, it is not a problem for the direct victims, those of us who live with escorts, those who cannot appear on electoral lists, those who have to overcome fear in order to write daily or in order to talk to the media. The problem is for Europe. It is a problem for European democracy as a whole. Therefore, European democracy is also acting as a whole and is reacting by uniting in the battle against terrorism. I feel happy because Europe has understood that it is time to go beyond words, beyond fine statements, beyond bilateral cooperation, though this is important. It has long been time to mobilise the instruments necessary to bring the criminals, the terrorists, the fascists, to justice, to finally arrest the criminals, to implement all the necessary instruments which will make the European democratic institutions more effective in achieving this end. It also makes me happy to see that Europe has discovered that, when criminals are at liberty, when organised criminals are attacking human rights, freedoms and lives of citizens, the first political decision that must be taken is to make it possible for the criminals to be brought to justice. We do everything we have to do to ensure that all citizens live in freedom, regardless of their ideology, their beliefs, their origin, their surnames, their native culture, and everything we have to do to defend – if you will allow me – the very concept behind European citizenship: human rights. The Watson report and its recommendations are not just a commitment against ETA: they are a commitment to democracy. The aim is to beat ETA, but the fundamental commitment is to defend democracy throughout the whole of Europe. To defend the idea that everywhere in Europe people may live in freedom, in plurality, and may live together. And in one place in Europe, in the Basque Country and in Spain, the fascist organisation ETA is jeopardising that coexistence and plurality. It is said that there will be operative problems, that some countries will have problems harmonising their legislations. President Verhofstadt said here, during his first intervention, that those who do not believe in utopia do not deserve to be called Europeans. I believe that a political will which has been capable of introducing a single currency will be capable of also introducing single instruments to fight terrorism. But please allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to end by making a comment in my capacity not just as a European, but as a Basque and a Spaniard. As a Basque and a Spaniard, as the daughter of a generation of Spanish democratic citizens who lost the war against Franco and who resisted forty years of dictatorship, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that through this act today, Europe is performing an act of historical reparation, because for many years, for a long time, we Spanish democrats have felt a sense of isolation, of indifference and distance from Europe. We often felt it during Franco’s time and we have often felt it – I can assure you – during these years of fighting the fascism of ETA, of fighting for democracy and freedom. Today the debt of indifference is being paid off and I feel proud to share this moment with you. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to thank you as a Basque for this decision. I would like to thank you in my name but above all in the name of many ordinary anonymous people, who every day fight for freedom, who overcome fear in order to appear on the electoral lists, who overcome fear in order to write, and in the name of those people who cannot talk because ETA has silenced their voices for good. On behalf of all of them, thank you very much and congratulations on this act today. – Mr President, when Mr Gorostiaga uses the word “dialogue” in his tribute to the murdered Ernest Lluch, he is insulting his memory and insulting the ideas for which ETA murdered him. Mr Gorostiaga, I have profound contempt for the terrorists of ETA, but the people who use this democratic Parliament in a cowardly fashion to justify the murders they commit deserve the same contempt. Mr Gorostiaga, you are a disgrace to this Parliament. – Mr President, a saying is a saying. In no way have I tried to call Mr Galeote a thief. It is a saying which means: everybody believes that others are like them. He has accused us of dishonest conduct, which has never been the case, and he knows that there has been dishonest conduct in his ranks. –  Mr President, in view of Mr Ortuondo Larrea’s question and what he has just said, I would like to begin my speech with a basic geography lesson. The Basque Country is not between France and Spain. It is not Andorra. The Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is in the Spanish state, and, naturally, the French Basque Country, as the name itself suggests, is in the French state, and is part of the French state. Let us, however, move on to the supplementary question. Does the President not think that if Basque President Ibarretxe, who is of course the main representative of the Spanish state in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, according to the Organic Law of the Statute of Autonomy, were to devote all his efforts and those of his government to going after and arresting terrorists, and isolating their accomplices, and had he come here, to Parliament and the Institutions, to ask us for help in putting a stop to ETA, the terrorists would already have lost hope? Does the President not believe that the problem in Basque politics is not only lack of freedom due to terrorism, but also the existence of a democratic government that undermines the democratic institutions it democratically employs, and creates conflict, and I repeat, creates conflict between the Kingdom of Spain and the French Republic? –  Mr President, once again Parliament has declared itself to be in favour of human dignity and against the death penalty. But on this occasion it has done so following the approval by the Convention of the definitive text of the Charter on Fundamental Rights of the European Union. This Charter actually devotes its first chapter to human dignity, stating that it is inviolable and will be respected and protected. It also states that nobody can be condemned to the death penalty or executed. Parliament has spoken in favour of the Charter being incorporated into the Treaties and these rights of European citizens being applied to citizens of third countries. However, it is more relevant than ever for us to ask ourselves whether it is time to demand that the Commission and the Council incorporate the abolition of the death penalty as a clause respecting human rights into negotiations with all third countries, not only those waiting in line to become part of the European Union. 1999 was another bad year. According to Amnesty International, almost 2000 people were executed and in 63 countries 4000 others were condemned to death. China, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the United States are some of the 31 countries in which executions took place. Did you know that in this last country, in the United States, that great upholder of democratic fundamentals – as Concepció Ferrer was saying just now – 98 citizens were executed in 1999? Did you know that in 18 North-American states it is possible to execute a sixteen-year-old? Did you know that in that same country, since 1976, 34 mentally-retarded offenders have been executed? I draw attention to the United States, not because I am anti-American, which I am not, but because we are talking about a democracy with which we are on good terms, which watches over the interests of peace and democracy in the world. I would like us all to ask ourselves whether we can do more. It is time we understood that humanitarian declarations alone are not enough. I believe that if we do not turn this fight into a political commitment, with a capital P, as a fundamental part of European foreign policy – and that is why I am pleased that Commissioner Patten is here – we will be doing less than we could to prevent this barbarism. Let us do all we can from within this House. Let us remember the words of Albert Camus: “There will be no lasting peace either in the heart of individuals or in social customs until death is outlawed”. And another thing, Mr Patten, you were saying in your speech that we cannot guarantee zero error in executions. Every execution is an error. I am agnostic, but I read the Bible and it says that nobody should touch Cain in spite of the fact that he killed his brother Abel. Every execution is an error that democracy, the defence of human rights and human dignity cannot accept. – Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Wuori not only on his report and its recommendations, but also because it reminds us of all the atrocities which are still being committed in the world. It is normal for us to make our aid to third countries conditional upon their respecting human rights and, naturally, we must continue urging them to do so and putting pressure on them until they do so, but, while we do not make the same demands of the larger countries, we will not deserve to consider ourselves the world reference point for the defence of human rights. Again and again we threaten the United States when it executes a person, when it murders a human being according to its laws. But it goes no further than these words which, though forceful, are nevertheless only words. They sentence to death minors, the mentally handicapped, blacks, Hispanics; in short, the poorest people. In the statement on the Gothenburg Summit, we have once again called on the United States to establish a moratorium on the death penalty, we have once again expressed our regret that it appears in their federal law and that in 38 of their jurisdictions citizens are executed in the name of the law. We need to apply even more pressure. Cases such as that of Joaquín José Martínez lead us to be more optimistic about the influence of the European institutions and, in particular, our Parliament. We must continue to fight to defend and extend the values of European civilisation. Without liberty, without tolerance, without respect for human rights, there is nothing. A country may be a great economic power, it may even be the envy of many others for its missiles, its strength, its powers of veto, but, if human rights are not respected and enforced, it is a society without values, an under-developed society. This very morning, President Verhofstadt said that when Europe speaks and speaks in unison, we are heard. We must therefore continue to exert pressure, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday also, before the Committee on External Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, the President of Peru, Alejandro Toledo, reminded us that democracy has no borders and human rights have no colour. Neither, ladies and gentlemen, should they have a cheque book. – Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso, it seems to me the height of cynicism, and absolutely repugnant, to hear you once again justifying crimes, in this case affecting a pensioner and a Spanish girl. It is absolutely repugnant. It is also repugnant to discover that a proportion of public resources, the money of the European citizens, which you receive, ends up in the hands of the criminals and fascists of ETA. That is how repugnant it is. Mr President, something is not working in the system if we in this House have to endure the indecency of people who come here to justify crimes. Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso, please be aware that the impunity of individuals like you and the impunity of your activities is coming to an end throughout Europe. Democracy has the right to defend itself and it will do so. – Mr President, every year hundreds of human beings are executed in the world – often in the so-called civilised world – at the hands of other human beings. In 1998 it was noted that there were at least 1,625 executions in 37 countries and almost 4,000 death sentences in another 78 countries. These figures refer exclusively to the information which Amnesty International has been able to collect. The true figure is, without doubt, much higher. Every year an unknown number of people are declared innocent after being executed. According to a report released recently, since 1973 and in the United States alone, 75 prisoners condemned to death were released when it was discovered that they had been wrongly convicted. We will never know how many innocent people there were amongst the approximately 7000 prisoners executed in the United States of America during this century. According to Amnesty International, for every six prisoners executed since the restoration of the death penalty in the United States, one innocent person was condemned to death and later pardoned. Therefore, it seems to me that the Council’s proposal to the United Nations, however important and positive the initiative may be, is very timid because calls on those States which retain the death penalty – and I quote – “to progressively restrict the number of crimes for which it is imposed”. Does that seem to us to be sufficient? Do we want to be a diplomatic Assembly or a political Parliament? That is why we ask the Council, in section 9 of this resolution, in the negotiations with third countries, to examine the possibility of incorporating the abolition of the death penalty into the clause on human rights. Perhaps the Council is not in a position to do any more, but what about us? Should we not be more demanding? Should we not be more ambitious? The answer is yes. This is why we are sending this message to the Council and all the nations of the world. The case of the Spanish citizen, José Joaquín Martínez, is a clear example of justice with no guarantees. That is why he is calling for real justice, and that is why we support him today. He wants a new form of justice so that he can demonstrate his innocence, and he has the right to it. But I declare, we all declare together, that no death sentence is a just sentence. None is. I will also end with a biblical quote which is more positive than the one quoted by my colleague. It is a quote from Genesis. Cain killed Abel and nobody disputed his guilt in this horrendous crime. He spilled the blood of his brother and the Lord cursed him and expelled him from his house and condemned him to live as a fugitive and a vagabond: “And Cain said to the Lord: ‘every one that findeth me shall slay me’. And the Lord said unto him: ‘Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold’. And the Lord set a mark upon Cain lest any finding him should kill him”. May nobody touch Cain, that was the message. May nobody touch Cain. That should be our ambition: that nobody can execute any human being ever, in any part of the world, for any reason. Nobody. Not even the United States of America. –  Mr President, we all in fact need to know who is playing into the hands of whom, given that in this democratic Parliament words are what count above all. We democrats cannot prevent the terrorists from murdering us, but we can and must stop them from insulting us, and both democrats and freedom fighters have been insulted here. – Mr President, I would like to present the House with a point of order. Yesterday afternoon, during Questions to the Commission, there was a Question No 91 from the Spanish People’s Party MEP, Mrs García-Orcoyen. The last question answered during those Questions to the Commission was Question No 61. Today, certain sections of the Spanish press are publishing the ‘question’ and the supposed reply from Commissioner Wallström. This morning, after becoming aware of this information, the Socialist Group made a written request to the Parliamentary services to issue that reply. At 11.28 this morning we received the following written reply from the services of this House: ‘I must inform you that the reply to the said question from Mrs García-Orcoyen, which was communicated to us when Question Time had ended, is awaiting translation. Once translated and sent officially to the author you will be sent a copy by e-mail. Signed: João Correa’. How is it possible, Mr President, that we MEPs do not have the reply – and nor did the author of the question – when it is already in the hands of the press, not only the supposed reply, but also an explanatory communication of the response from the Spanish People’s Party, explaining it? Mr President, this is the second time in one month that something like this has happened and supposed replies are being leaked to the Spanish media before the MEPs themselves – and, I repeat, even the authors of the questions – have heard the reply. How can this happen? Is it pure chance that on these two occasions the supposed reply supports the positions of the Spanish Government? Does the Spanish Government have a mole somewhere in the Commission or in Parliament? Mr President, as an MEP, I would ask you for protection for Parliament and respect for MEPs. Madam President, I too am a Basque and I am also a woman and a Socialist. I am one of the 92% of Basque people who voted in the Basque Country in favour of the Statute of Autonomy and in favour of democracy. Madam President, there is a democracy in the Basque Country. There are elections which are free and democratic. There is a Statute of Autonomy for which the vast majority of Basques voted. The Basque people and the Basque institutions have risen to the occasion. Yet, in the Basque Country, there is a terrorist organisation which wants to control our lives, which has returned to blackmail and to which the Basques and all those in favour of democracy have said ‘no’. This is basically all I wanted to say. –  Mr President, this morning, just three hours ago, the ETA terrorist organisation tried to murder Ester Cabezudo, a Socialist councillor from the Portugalete Local Council, and her bodyguard. Fortunately, the attempt was unsuccessful and it seems that both individuals are now out of danger. Last week, the ETA terrorist organisation tried to murder the 25 year-old former leader of the Socialist Youth Organisation in the Basque Country. They did not succeed in this case either, but the young man’s left leg had to be amputated. I would ask the Presidency, on behalf of this House, to show its sympathy with regard to these events, its condemnation of them and its solidarity with the victims. The terrorists did not achieve their objectives, but the outcome is no less serious than if they had done so. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, every day we see horrifying images of new tragedies which desolate the world: people devastated, children dying from hunger and disease, refugees without refuge, immigrants wandering the world looking for an opportunity to live… There are tragedies, however, which persist while nobody talks about them, which get worse and fester although they do not make the headlines. One of those cases filed away in our selective first-world memory is the situation in Central America and the dramatic effects of the drought which has been devastating it for more than three months. This is a tragedy which is unfolding in a region, as has been said, which is already weakened by constant natural disasters, quite apart from political disasters, and which has a social and economic structure lacking the least resources for resisting them. El Salvador has declared a state of emergency and Guatemala just yesterday declared a state of public disaster, in a truly desperate attempt to combat hunger. The drought has destroyed the majority of the crops in the region and hunger is now affecting millions of people, as previous speakers have said. All of this in an area where an extremely high percentage of inhabitants live in poverty or extreme poverty. The United Nations world food programme raised the alarm very recently, telling us that if the current situation continues, it will only be able to meet the needs of half of the affected citizens for barely three months. I therefore draw your attention in particular to the recommendation contained in section 4 which, in relation to that in section 3, seeks to direct our decisions in the field of development aid towards the objective of combating the structural problems. Only in that way, by investing in sustainable development in the most sensitive areas of the world, will we be able to prevent and alleviate as far as possible the effects of natural disasters, because we will have invested our aid and our resources in the structuring and strengthening of the population and we will have made them stronger so that they can endure the consequences of phenomena which not even we, in the first world, can prevent. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for Europe to be able to give out fishing rods, to show people how to fish, rather than to hand out fish. –  It does not really need to be pointed out, but it was at the Laeken European Council that the recommendation was made, once again, to create a Euro-Mediterranean development bank to remedy the poor economic results of the countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean and the social and political consequences thereof. Current growth in these countries, as the President-in-Office of the Council knows, falls considerably short of what is needed, not only to ensure sustainable development and to reduce poverty but to halt the massive exodus of hundreds and thousands of people who are looking desperately for an opportunity not to die in their own country. Does the Presidency not consider that the instrument they have decided on, yielding to the position put forward by Ecofin – which was not the positionofthe Spanish Presidency norofmost Council members – and which appears to be inadequate, is the product – to our way of thinking – of an unambitious and unclear decision, which pulls up short and is even, I would go so far as to say, a real step backwards, which can only be explained by the lack of ambition or by the absence of a clear strategy for the development of the countries of the southern Mediterranean? – Mr President, it once again falls to the European Parliament to condemn the death penalty, the greatest violation of human rights which is still being committed in the world, often and to all our shame, under the protection of laws which have been created by men who represent the sovereignty of the people. Today we are talking about the sentencing of two European citizens, a Spaniard and an Italian, who have been condemned to death, as has already been said, in Yemen and the United States respectively. In the case of the Spanish citizen, Nabil Nanakli, furthermore, there is no sufficient information regarding the trial, arrest and current situation of the prisoner, which has mobilised the entire Muslim community. We have stated in this House that they is no such thing as a just death penalty, that no human being may condemn to death or execute another human being, that there is no recourse to any law, to any sovereignty, to the independence of any State, which can justify this violation of life itself. The defence of human rights is at the very heart of our Union. To globalise the respect for human rights must be our prime objective. I am not making – and this Parliament is not once again making – a humanitarian declaration. It is a political commitment, it is Politics with a capital ‘P’, and it is the European Union’s foreign policy. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to point 5 of our Resolution, which says that we repeat our request to the Council to incorporate into negotiations with third countries – with all of them – “the abolition of the death penalty as part of the human rights clause”. We expect a response from the Council in this respect; a response and a commitment which is also political. I have received a book which has been published to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Council of Europe, a book whose title reads “Europe, all of us under the same roof”. Let us be ambitious, let us extend the European roof, let us extend our civilisation, let us put into practice a phrase which, fortunately, this book quotes. In the words of Albert Camus: “Neither in people’s hearts nor in the customs of society will there be peace while the death penalty remains legal”. . –  Mr President, we have drafted this report that I am presenting today mindful of the fact that the Commission communication notes the importance that the Union attaches to human rights in the development of its external policy and this, in our opinion, should be warmly welcomed. I should like to emphasise, however, that although this communication puts forward important proposals and suggestions, it does not provide, in our view, practical instruments that will enable us to successfully confront the new challenges resulting from the new vision that we share and in which human rights and their promotion are fully integrated into the Union’s external policy. In theory, there are no substantial differences in the approach adopted by the Union institutions on defining how to address the development of human rights and the consolidation of democracy in the world, but it is when it comes to translating words into deeds, however, that differences between the institutions emerge. All too often, the democratic demands made on our partners take second place to the economic and commercial interests of the Union as a whole and of its individual Member States. Let us add to this another observation, which is in my view even more paradoxical: despite the fact that we share a single doctrine, a number of different policies are in force. Just take the paradigmatic case of Cuba, and I only mention this as one example. The Council is blocking relations, whilst the Member States maintain bilateral relations, in trade and in all types of other fields with the island. Under these circumstances, the aim of this report is not to reiterate the Union’s by now well-known position on this matter, but rather to seek to put forward proposals for firm action, both in the negotiation of agreements of all kinds between the European Union and third states and in the application of these agreements, as well as their possible suspension. The proposals contained in this report are intended to provide the work of the various Community institutions with greater coherence, putting an end to the de facto contradictions and to the particular predominance of the political will of the Council in this field, because in our opinion, the fact that the Union does not have a position of its own, expressed with a single voice, causes us to act on the international stage according to necessity or under the changing leadership of others who do not always share our interests in this field. In drafting this report we have been both ambitious and responsible; we have shown the ambition that committing ourselves to the defence of human rights in the world requires and the responsibility that comes from realising that the challenge of integrating human rights into the Union’s external policy is a genuinely complex matter. We have also borne in mind, however, that the contradictions between institutions and the lack of unanimity, coordination and unity in action are the worst enemy of human rights and of democratisation in the world. The proposals put forward in this report must, therefore, be seen as a means of overcoming this situation and of overcoming our own contradictions. As Mr Patten stated this afternoon in his intervention, we are fond of lecturing others on human rights but we would sometimes do well to look at ourselves. My first proposal is, therefore, to ask the Commission to draw up an interinstitutional code of conduct, designed to ensure a more coherent and more equitable approach in the Union's external action in this field. This code must govern relations between the Union and the more than 120 States to which the democratic clause currently applies. A code, ladies and gentlemen, that will be an instrument for defining the terms, both internal and external, under which dialogue takes place; a code to provide cohesion for the speech and the actions of the Union, but never to undermine dialogue; a code which serves as a political instrument, not a legal or ethical one, which systematically collates the Union’s values and political thought and its rules of implementation. I should like to emphasise that such a code must not be based on the punitive and suspensive nature of the human rights clause, but on mutual respect between the parties concerned, incorporating as many positive incentives as possible and including generous cooperation programmes, that will enable respect for human rights to be strengthened at all levels. Our objectives must be not only to evaluate the progress made by the various partner countries in the field of human rights but also to achieve a coherent balance between countries and regions, above all preventing unfair results, comparative injustices and the treatment of these countries and regions with double standards, all of which we saw in Geneva. The code must, ultimately, be the handbook for parliamentary democracy. The second proposal that this report makes, and which I should like to go into, recommends that the Parliament produced by the 2004 elections should establish a Commission on Human Rights responsible for problems relating to human rights, democratisation in third countries and relations with international organisations active in the sphere of human rights Thirdly and lastly, I should like to mention the proposal for the Commission to establish a European Union Agency for Human Rights and Democracy, a suggestion that was made by the Cologne European Council. This agency, ladies and gentlemen, would be a body whose objective would be to establish common criteria and parameters for analysing the human rights situation in the world, drawing up an annual assessment that will facilitate interinstitutional action in accordance with the elements that constitute the code. It is, of course, the Commission that will have to establish the areas in which the agency will act but it would be very useful, in order to produce more effective and coordinated work, if it could, for example, include the evaluation of the impact of structural measures, given their enormous importance in the processes of reconciliation following armed conflict. Lastly, it will be a useful instrument, that does not take competences away from anyone, but which adds both its own and external efforts and resources. Finally, with regard to the five amendments tabled by Mrs Malmström, I must say that I am not going to accept them and that I am going to ask plenary to vote for the report, which wasadopted by a broad majority in committee, with three abstentions and not a single vote against. Nevertheless, I thank both Mrs Malmström and the other honourable Members of all political groups who tabled amendments and who discussed matters with us during the drafting of this report, because their work has helped to enrich it. I should furthermore like to ask Parliament’s services to bear in mind that the original text is in Spanish and to revise the other versions, because there are some differences in the finer points of meaning. –  Mr President, too much time has passed since, on 17 July 1988 in Rome, the establishment of an International Criminal Court was approved, to bring to justice those individuals responsible for the most serious crimes which, as has already been mentioned here today, are the scourge of the whole world, including terrorism. There have been 52 ratifications of the Statute to date but, ladies and gentlemen, as you are all well aware, 60 are needed for it to enter into force. Given that we anticipate that the International Criminal Court will enter into force in the first six months of this year, under the Spanish Presidency, that the first assembly of signatory States will take place in New York, in September this year, that the attitude of the United States has not been positive so far and there are also well-founded suspicions that the American administration will be supporting a campaign against the Court, even going as far as to revoke Clinton’s signature at the UN on 31 December 2000, I would like to take advantage of your presence here, Mr de Miguel, to ask you a few specific questions. What does the Presidency of the Union intend to do with regard to the Bush administration to avoid this risk of taking a backwards step? Does the Presidency not think it necessary to draw up a plan with specific measures and resources to attract the United States to the International Criminal Court? What does the Presidency of the Union intend doing to guarantee that the 18 aforementioned judges, an integral component of this Court, designated at national level, meet with the requirements with regard to qualifications, balanced regional distribution, experience and parity between men and women? When the Rome Statute was approved, Kofi Annan considered it a gigantic step forward. However, a long time ago, Benjamin Ferencz, former prosecutor at the Nuremburg War Crimes Trial, said that there can be no peace without justice, no justice without law, and no meaningful law without a court to decide what is just and lawful under any given circumstances. Today, following 11 September and the conflicts in the Middle East, the citizens see the establishment of this Court as something urgent and necessary. Let us not, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, let time slip away and forget about this until the next crime or war reminds us of this ever-present threat. – Mr President, anyone who funds those involved in terrorism brings shame on this House.  The way to resolve the Basque conflict is for those who are persecuting and killing us to stop doing so and leave us to live in freedom. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is true that we could have made more progress, but we could also have made much less progress, and true that we could have done a lot better, but we could also have done a lot worse. This is all on the basis that in a six-month presidency there are neither resounding successes nor complete failures. In six months there is not enough time for complete failures, they are impossible, and relative failures can be explained. You yourself, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have acknowledged the futility of a rotational system that results in presidencies being forced to seek success, nationally if possible and in a short space of time. In this sense, the reforms of the Council agreed in Seville, which have already been discussed, represent minimal, but positive progress. I am not here to criticise you, but neither am I here to flatter you, so I will assess the status of three of your priorities: enlargement, transatlantic relations and foreign relations. With regard to enlargement, I can say nothing less than that the objectives have not been fulfilled, you have said so yourself. The chapter that the Presidency had proposed closing in order to achieve the reunification of Europe and make it a reality remain open. They are difficult subjects and give rise to a lot of suspicion in various Member States, but refusing to promote a serious debate that will enable us to overcome the uncertainty is not the solution. Regarding relations with our main ally, I have to acknowledge, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you have had an undeniable personal success: you were invited to Camp David. But that relationship was not cemented in Europe’s favour in terms of its relations with the United States. They have not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, they have withdrawn their signature from the creation of the International Criminal Court, they will not take advice on the Middle East, and the variety of trade disputes between us are increasing. In short, our leadership is flagging. Regarding foreign relations, it is true that the agreement with Chile has been signed, on which we congratulate you, but this Presidency has not given the Union’s policy on Latin America and the Mediterranean the position it deserves. Europe is not doing well, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is not doing better than it was six months ago. I know that we have had to go through some difficult times, but politics is for difficult times. Therefore, with the same sincerity with which I offered you our support six months ago, believe me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I tell you that I hoped and wished for more. More success, more progress, less uncertainty. To conclude, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I was not planning to describe this Presidency, but your Minister for Foreign Affairs, as always, has provoked me by saying that he is reasonably satisfied. Perhaps because I am leftwing and a woman, and women and the left wing require more ambition, I will say that I am reasonably unsatisfied. –  Mr President, I should like to begin by reiterating the importance of this debate and of the piece of legislation that has brought us together today, because we have spoken so often of these matters that we sometimes run the risk of losing sight of how important the issues really are. I should, therefore, like us to be aware of the importance of what we are today deciding on, not only from the point of view of creating a common area of freedom, security and justice, but from the point of view of the political decisions that have led us to this agreement. In general, we tend to value things once we have lost them. I should like to value this decision – and I would ask you to do the same – for what we have lost as a result of not having taken this decision before. If ten years ago we had initiated the arrest warrant, if we had defined the crime of terrorism, if we had made European judges and police forces work together, if Europe had accepted ten years ago that defeating terrorism requires joint action and not only solidarity with those who directly suffer its blows and if we had confronted terrorism with the entire might of European democracy, today ETA would be a thing of the past. This is why I say I would like you to consider from this point of view the importance of the instruments that we are today debating and which we will be adopting. If we had introduced them before, we would not have suffered such irreparable losses. We have lost years of freedom and human lives and we have buried friends, dear friends, who would have been with us here today. History has shown that human beings can be extraordinarily cruel if their actions go unpunished. This is why I say that, if we had acted previously, ETA would today be a thing of the past. We would have fewer orphans, fewer widows, less suffering and less fear. Think about this when you vote, ladies and gentlemen. Be proud to be key players in this major decision and do not forget that, above and beyond all the speeches, what you are doing is giving life and freedom a chance. –  The Spanish delegation of the Group of the Party of European Socialists voted against Amendment No 7 to paragraph 11. This delegation cannot accept this text’s mention of an agricultural product – cotton – and its recommendation that assistance to that sector be reviewed and restricted. It would have a direct impact on more than 10 000 Spanish farmers and their families, and would generate an unjustifiable and intractable socio-economic problem. – Mr President, could the same correction be made to the Spanish version, as it is different from the original? . Mr President, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Stevenson, for having included the amendments of the Committee on Budgets in his report, and I believe we should all be pleased because this protocol will allow Community ships to return to the waters of Mozambique, in which they fished until 1993, when Mozambique condemned the then existing Agreement. Although Mr Stevenson has already spoken briefly on the budget, I would like to insist that the financial record sheet for the Council's proposal effectively provides for compensation for 2004, 2005 and 2006 in commitment appropriations of EUR 12 270 000, which is exclusively dedicated  as Commissioner Fischler and the rapporteur, Mr Stevenson, have said – to what we call specific measures, which the Committee on Budgets also welcomes. Furthermore, it is laid down that there may be a maximum of EUR 15 870 000, when the annual budget is established. Apart from this, the Committee on Budgets is in favour of this Protocol with the Republic of Mozambique, which provides for new fishing opportunities for the Community fleet in the Indian Ocean. Mr Fischler, the Committee on Budgets, however, regrets – as on so many occasions – that the Commission has waited until the end of July 2003 to communicate its initial proposal, despite the fact that the Protocol was signed in October 2002. – Madam President, with the entry into force of the new Financial Regulation, the subsidies of the former Part A and some of them from the former Part B of the Budget, which did not have basic instruments, required those basic instruments to be adopted in order to be implemented. To this end, the Commission presented seven basic instruments which are currently under discussion in five parliamentary committees. The initial objective was that they would be approved for the action programmes to enter into force from 2004. As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets for the seven proposals, I can only deplore the Commission's delay in presenting them, because this means that the various Parliamentary committees involved are also working behind schedule and against the clock, and this makes it difficult for us to respect the strengthened cooperation between committees which is applicable for this procedure. Furthermore, we must also remember that some of the proposals pose particular difficulties, as in the case of pre-allocations, amongst other things. In addition, if we bear in mind that the various competent working groups in the Council are also significantly behind schedule, as well as the difficulties we are expecting in terms of reaching a consensus between Council and Parliament – four of the proposals involve the codecision procedure – we must recognise, as realists, that the outlook is not very encouraging and that it may, therefore, be very difficult to fulfil the compromise which Parliament and the Council reached in the conciliation of 16 July so that these legal bases could be adopted before the end of 2003. The Committee on Budgets, by means of the Mulder report, requests, Commissioner, that the European Commission provide for the implementation of exceptional transitional measures which allow subsidies to be allocated during 2004, as laid down in the presentation of its proposals. Regardless of the final result, therefore, in the basic instruments relating to the issue of pre-allocations, at first reading the Committee on Budgets has maintained the pre-allocation in the corresponding lines for the 2004 budget, as was done in previous years. All this will allow the various associations to be able to benefit from subsidies in 2004 under the same conditions applicable until now. Above all, however, the rapporteur believes that, if we can have a transitional period, we will be better able to prepare the negotiations for the conciliation procedure with the Council, as well as the second reading, and not once again be slaves to the timetable; otherwise, not only will the rigour and responsibility required of this institution be prejudiced, because we are legislating, but, in particular, so will the action programmes and their beneficiaries. Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission’s proposal provides for transitional measures for the three proposals we are discussing. Therefore, even if an agreement is not reached with the Council, could you explain to me how it is that there is a risk of certain organisations not having funding? – Madam President, I will do what I can. I would firstly like to congratulate Mr Stenmarck on behalf of the Socialist Group on a very solid and well-worked report. But I would like to go further and thank him on my own behalf for the good will and cooperation he has lent me in my temporary work as accidental shadow rapporteur. Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been pointed out, the preparation of the budget by the other institutions for 2003 has demonstrated the great pressure which the administrative needs relating essentially to the costs of preparation for enlargement exerts on the maximum limit of heading 100. My group fully supports the rapporteur with regard to the main objective, which is, quite rightly, to provide the institutions with the necessary means for a good preparation for enlargement to 25 countries, which is just around the corner. To this end, the rapporteur has tried to provide the institutions with adequate means to meet their priority needs. My group also supports Mr Stenmarck’s strategy of frontloading, in other words, providing for the use of surpluses available from the present financial year 2002 to bring forward certain expenses forecast for 2003 and therefore relieve the burden on the 2003 budget, as the rapporteur explained at length during his speech. Having said this, I shall focus on a series of points that my political group sees as priorities: First point. All the institutions – in fact, the European Parliament was the last – just before the vote in the Committee on Budgets, have presented, under pressure essentially from the Socialist Group, a budget based on a rigorous cost-efficiency calculation. And to use this twelfth language that Mr Wynn described as the Community jargon, the so-called ‘Activity Based Budget’ has been presented because it is clear that the institutions need a transparent system of financial management for the sake of efficiency. With regard to staff, I would like to mention two points. Firstly, my group has always supported the idea of the institutions having the necessary human resources, providing that the needs are real. We are therefore pleased that the Committee on Budgets has voted in favour of our amendment, in which we request a description of the functions and needs in order to be able to determine precisely what support is necessary in the case of institutional posts. But only for institutional posts. We therefore reject Amendment No 1 presented to the House by the Group of the European Peoples’ Party, which requests that it also be extended to Members of Parliament who have similar responsibilities. With regard to pensions, I would like to say that this is shameful. I was general rapporteur for the 1999 budget and in that report I placed great emphasis – almost a separate report – on the urgent need to resolve the problem of the pensions of European civil servants. We are now in 2002 and we are still making the same appeal. Mr Ferber, I would also have liked the Council to have been present, since that is the first obligation it must fulfil. Furthermore, my group has always argued that the citizens need to be aware that the European Parliament is their home; a transparent home. We therefore support a pilot project to broadcast plenary sittings live. And, Madam President, because there is no blank cheque here, with a view to the 2004 budget, the European Parliament’s Bureau should present us with relevant proposals in this regard. – Commissioner, I am grateful for your reply, but I still require some information. Am I right in thinking that right now there is not a single official or agent of the Commission dealing with the operation of this programme? Mr President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets on this report, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Miguélez Ramos on her excellent report, as is our custom in this House. I should also like to welcome the fact that the Committee on Fisheries has adopted the main amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgets. In this connection, it is worth emphasising that the fisheries agreement with Greenland comes second in order of importance for the Union in terms of what it costs the Community’s budget. Mrs Miguélez Ramos has already pointed this out. It represents an annual commitment of EUR 42.8 million. As was explained earlier, however, this sum does not accurately reflect genuine fishing opportunities for the Community fleet. This is because in the agreement itself, the fishing quota estimated by the Commission is valued at EUR 28 million. Indeed even that sum is too high if it is set against actual catch. The Committee on Budgets recognises the special relationship between Greenland and the European Union. The committee is also aware of the specific economic situation in that country. Fishing remains crucial to the economy of Greenland. Nonetheless, although the committee recognises the need to provide financial support for Greenland, it is opposed to the current approach of including such aid in the financial compensation that is part of the Fisheries Agreement. Consequently, the Committee on Budgets believes it is essential for the Commission to table a proposal for a new protocol before the present one expires in December 2006. The financial compensation in any new protocol should be in line with actual fishing opportunities. A different proposal on financial aid to Greenland should be tabled concurrently. Further, the committee is pleased to note that the Commission presented a mid-term review of the current protocol. This is in line with the European Parliament’s call for general assessment reports to be presented before the start of negotiations on renewal of protocols or agreements or indeed on new arrangements. These general reports should contain cost benefit analyses. I would therefore urge the Commission to present similar mid-term reviews for all agreements exceeding annual costs of EUR 3 million for the European Union’s budget. Mr President, the Wynne report we are currently debating represents an initial response to the Communication from the Commission on the new Financial Perspective. There is no intention of arriving at a definitive response during this final plenary. That said, I believe the response provided by the Committee on Budgets is too ambiguous. I feel the European Parliament is missing yet another chance to make a clear statement on its positions concerning key budgetary issues. Parliament already missed the opportunity provided by the Convention. We Socialists always advocated deepening European integration because we believe it is beneficial to all the citizens. More Europe means more benefits in everything and for everyone. In our view, being part of such a Europe is a win-win situation. The Socialists favour a citizens’ Europe rather than a Member States’ Europe. This is why we have argued repeatedly that citizens should pay the contributions, not the Member States. Members of this House will remember Joan Colom. He was forever saying that he felt it was unfair for a rich Spaniard to pay fewer taxes to Europe than a German manual labourer. This is what actually happens under the present system of own resources. We also believe that the fiscal principles applied in our countries must apply also at Union level. I should like to make it clear that for both the reasons stated we shall be voting as a Spanish Socialist delegation in favour of the amendment tabled by the French Socialists. Mr President, would you allow a question to the Commission, although it does not strictly speaking conform to the Rules of Procedure? – Mr President, when it comes to putting its own house in order, the European Commission is in a Catch-22 situation. There is enormous pressure of expectation following the events that led to the resignation of the previous Commission. I sometimes have the impression that the more radical the proposals made here in this Chamber sound, the more applause they receive. There again, it is simply not possible to change situations once and for all with a few strokes of the pen, and the problems begin as soon as we have to start talking about implementation and getting down to brass tacks. This may explain why we experienced more difficulties than anticipated in the Committee on Budgetary Control as regards this issue. Nevertheless, the outcome is now on the table and there for all to see, and I would expressly like to thank Mr van Hulten for the work he has done on this report. Provided this report is not watered-down yet again by the adoption of amendments, it will afford us the opportunity to make clear and unambiguous demands of the Commission on a number of crucial points. Allow me to start with the most important demand. We do not want financial control to be abolished. The financial controller should still be able to make checks before funding commitments or payments are made, not in every case, but wherever uncertainties or risks arise. The Commission is sending out the wrong signals here, by renaming the Directorate-General for Financial Control as the Directorate-General for Audits, for example. It may well be easy enough to change the Commission’s organisation chart but it is a different matter when it comes to the legal texts, particularly those relating to budgetary discipline. I do not have exact figures, but the Community’s budgetary discipline and the associated implementing provisions apply to almost 100 different areas of responsibility of the financial controller, to his or her independence and the tasks assigned to this office. This cannot be ignored or evaded, certainly not on account of soft law, as was once suggested at a meeting of our Committee. Irrespective of such legal considerations, it would be an unforgivable mistake, under the circumstances, to scrap financial control in the traditional sense at the very moment when those responsible for such matters in the Commission are, at long last, no longer out on a limb but set to become part of a chain of functioning supervisory and investigatory mechanisms. As we see it, there will be a dovetailing of three mechanisms in the future: a system of independent prior approval by the financial controller, concomitant and follow-up control by the internal audit service – also known as the audit service – which has yet to be set up, and finally, there will be the targeted tracking-down of irregularities by OLAF, the new anti-fraud office.  It is to be welcomed that Mr van Hulten’s report makes the connection between all three areas and also makes it clear as to where the crucial shortcomings lie, which must be tackled. A few salient points: the disciplinary procedures are not taking effect, especially when it comes to calling officials to account for their misdemeanours, including those of a financial nature. There is a large grey area and a great lack of clarity where criminal sanctions are concerned, and it is precisely in this area that the announcements made by the Commission are rather vague. I can only emphasise that these are the really hard nuts that finally need to be cracked. – Madam President, yesterday in this House the chairperson of my delegation, Rosa Díez, reported another leak of a written answer from the Commission to a question in Question Time, before Parliament officially received the answer from the Commission. It was the answer to Question No 91 from Mrs García-Orcoyen about the national water plan. Having received the press release that the Group of the European People’s Party in the European Parliament distributed yesterday to the Spanish media in Strasbourg, dated 13 March, half an hour before Question Time finished, I would like to inform the President of the European Parliament that as well as the answer to Mrs García-Orcoyen’s question, the joint answer to Questions No 92 from Mr Agag Longo and No 94 from Mrs Avilés Perea was also leaked. Therefore, on behalf of my delegation, I once again ask the President to investigate what happened and to take every step to ensure that this situation does not reoccur. . Mr President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets for the three proposals we are dealing with today, I would firstly like to express the extent to which I believe the application of Rule 162(a) of the European Parliament’s Rules of Procedures – enhanced cooperation between committees – has once again been emptied of any meaning. Nobody questions that the aspects of co-financing and degressivity fall within the competence of the Committee on Budgets. Nevertheless, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport voted on and rejected the amendments by the Committee on Budgets on these two aspects, using the argument that it contradicted the other elements of the report. This is the crux of the matter, and not only with regard to the three reports we are dealing with today, but with regard to enhanced cooperation in general. This procedure is intended to facilitate cooperation between the competent committees and strengthen the role of the committee asked for an opinion. But if, from the outset, there is not enough time to facilitate this cooperation and if, furthermore, it is sufficient for a single amendment to be presented in the committee responsible which contradicts what has been presented by the committee asked for an opinion, Rule 162(a) is automatically negated. This is precisely what has happened in the Committee on Culture in relation to the opinion delivered by the Committee on Budgets. In other words, that after Rule 162(a), we automatically moved on to apply Rule 162, that is, to deliver a normal opinion. I am convinced that it is Rule 162(a) itself that contains the catch, and, in its current wording, all it does is create unnecessary conflicts between committees rather than promoting cooperation between them. I therefore believe that it is essential that, with a view to the future, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs examine this rule, either with a view to revising it, or with a view to completely removing it. Returning to substance of the proposals, I would like to focus on two aspects: co-financing and degressivity, which are the issues that have raised most problems. I am talking about two fundamental aspects of the general system for awarding grants because they allow for the co-responsibility of the beneficiary for the correct use of grants and also ensure that the organisations do not depend solely and exclusively on Community grants in order to operate, thereby promoting their establishment in the future. Furthermore, degressivity allows money recovered in this way to be able, in this case, to be used to subsidise new associations, particularly those in the enlargement countries. The Commission’s proposals therefore provide for co-financing and degressivity in the award of all these grants. Nevertheless, I must express my surprise at the fact that the Commission has applied different percentages in these three proposals, which are the responsibility of the same Directorate-General, both for co-financing and for degressivity. Since Article 109 of the Financial Regulation states that equal treatment must be one of the principles for the award of grants, it is not justifiable that associations with the same objective but which act in different fields should be subject to differing treatment. The amendment approved by the Committee on Budgets called for all associations receiving a grant under any of the seven programmes – in accordance with the various groups of associations identified – should have the same rights and obligations in the aspects of co-financing and degressivity. Furthermore, in the case of co-financing, it was not a question of establishing fixed percentages, but of establishing minimums that would then allow the executive authority to apply percentages in accordance with the real needs or possibilities of each association. I would like to stress that it was not a question of seeking harmonisation, but of applying that principle of equal treatment. For its part, the Committee on Culture eliminates degressivity in its three proposals, believing that all associations likely to receive a grant are of general European interest, within the meaning of the exception provided for in Article 113(2) of the Financial Regulation. I believe that this is too broad an interpretation and I would question whether all these associations are genuinely of European general interest. The Committee on Culture appears to have interpreted the maintenance of degressivity on the part of the Committee on Budgets as a kind of punishment of these associations when in reality it promotes – together with co-financing, as I said earlier – their establishment in the future, since nowhere is it written that these grants should be awarded  Otherwise, when the day comes that, for one reason or another, this source of funding runs out, all the associations could find themselves under serious pressure. Finally - as I pointed out in my speech on grants during the last plenary session – lack of time has had a terrible effect on the whole of this procedure. The Commission was under time pressure in presenting its proposals and Parliament has also been under time pressure with regard to the amended proposals we are presenting today. Anybody who has studied them will have realised that they contain more than one contradiction. I imagine that we are all guilty as well as victims in relation to this problem, but what worries me most is the extent to which the European Parliament's position will have been strengthened following tomorrow's vote, because what we have ahead of us, jointly, is a difficult conciliation with the Council, since the latter does not appear to be prepared to give ground on those points which it considers fundamental, such as pre-allocation, co-financing and degressivity, or the programmes’ financial framework. .–Mr President, I am speaking as spokesperson for the Committee on Budgets on fisheries issues and it falls to me firstly to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Fava, whose report I am essentially going to comment on, on its excellence. Allow me to point out that the Common Fisheries Policy is funded almost entirely by means of the Union’s budget. But it does not even represent 1% of the whole budget, and is funded by the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance (FIFG), the regional fund and the social fund. The action plan is intended to alleviate the short-term consequences for fishermen and the fishing industry resulting from the conservation and protection measures, by means of the reprogramming of the FIFG for social measures and a review of all the existing aid, but it also provides for the possible release of additional sums. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Committee on Fisheries which has incorporated the following points of the Committee on Budgets into the Resolution: The first stresses that it is not probable that the Council’s amendments to the Commission’s package on the reform of the CFP, adopted at its meeting of 16 to 22 December 2002, will facilitate the application of this reform nor the scheduled reprogramming of 611 million from the FIFG. The second points out that the financial resources available in heading 2 of the financial perspectives intended for the fisheries sector and the areas dependent on fishing can be calculated at EUR 28 000 million for the period 2000-2006. Finally, it is stressed that additional European Union funding can only be allocated to fishing measures intended to compensate for losses if this is compatible with the maximum limit in heading 2 of the financial perspectives, or by employing the flexibility instrument laid down in Article 24 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999. – Mr President, I could limit my intervention to simply presenting the supplementary and amending budget SAB 5 and explaining my recommendation to vote in this Parliament. But, Mr President, we have to understand that SAB 5 cannot be seen in isolation, but that it forms a whole with SAB 4 and what we call the global transfer and the Notenboom procedure. Allow me, then, to begin with some thoughts which are directed at the Commission. On presenting the SAB 4 and in the tripartite dialogue, on the 7th, before the adoption of that SAB 4, the Commission announced that the supplementary and necessary payment appropriations – EUR 650.5 million in particular for PHARE, TACIS, Obnova and FYROM – were covered, or were going to be covered, by means of three instruments: SAB 4, the global transfer and SAB 5, which today is the object of our debate and resolution. And SAB 5 would also serve to increase the posts in OLAF from 15 to 30, as the supervisory committee recommended in its report on this body, so that OLAF may begin to work in accordance with the priorities which had already been identified. On 15 September, Parliament discussed SAB 4 and it was then approved, both by Parliament and by the Council, in the vote in plenum. Today SAB 5 is also being debated. But with regard to the global transfer, which is one of the three instruments, and which the Commission had presented to increase the payment appropriations, part of this whole does not pass through this procedure in the Plenum. It passes a little more unnoticed through the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport. But you will allow me, since this is part of the whole, to make some observations and take this opportunity to quote directly the small gems of arguments which the Commission uses to transfer payments between the different lines and transfer them towards external actions. I shall begin with a curious issue, which is the reduction in the line which is called “European Union Celebrations for the Millennium”. The Commission’s justification for removing all the payments from there is: “The planned activities are not taking place.” Next I have three lines, “Special actions for the benefit of the Baltic region”, “Integrating gender issues into development cooperation” and “Preparatory actions by the NGOs in the campaign against child abuse”. In these cases the Commission says: “No decision has yet been taken”. We are in the middle of November. It will be done, but we will see that as a result of taking decisions so late, especially in preparatory actions, which is what all these lines are, and they are priorities of this Parliament, payments may be removed on the grounds that decisions have not been taken. I would like to ask, firstly: Who decides that it will not be done? (given that the political priorities, in my understanding, are set by Parliament). And secondly: what is the reason for this delay in the taking of decisions? I would recommend an improvement in 2000. I do not want to be firmer with you, but I believe it is important, given that we said the 1999 budget was a bridge, not only with regard to funding, but also in the setting down of the political priorities for the new Millennium. Lastly, of the three instruments, it is SAB 5 which we are examining today with an additional EUR 202 million in payment appropriations for external actions and these 15 additional posts for OLAF. And the Commission proposal states – and the rapporteur is very happy about this – that they will be entirely funded by the EAGGF-Guarantee, since there are appropriations there which will not be used. I would ask Parliament to approve the resolution which is short and concise. It takes note of SAB 5 and indicates once again that the forecasts for agricultural expenditure have been excessive. It is also indicated in this resolution – and this is perhaps the most important point, section 4 – that it asks Parliament to approve the decision to increase the amount of supplementary and amending budget 5/99 by EUR 25 million in payment appropriations intended for the PHARE programme, in accordance, Mrs Schreyer, with the urgent needs of this programme which the Commission has indicated. Lastly, I also want to appeal to the Council. I would like to ask the Council to approve without amendments this SAB 5, amended by Parliament, so that the payments are not subject to further delays. Mr President, I am speaking as draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets on the former A-30 budget lines. This is a series of budget lines which financed subsidies from the appropriations included in Part A of the Commission’s budget. I would like to point out that, with the entry into force of the new Financial Regulation, it became necessary to adapt the subsidies to the rules of the new Regulation. Firstly, the spending in the A lines had to be reclassified as operational appropriations, rather than administrative ones, and, secondly, as laid down in Article 49 of the Financial Regulation, the legal basis making it possible to execute these appropriations had to be created. In line with this Article 49, at the beginning of the summer of 2003, the Commission presented seven proposals, which took the form of a multi-annual Community action programme, with the aim of guaranteeing its entry into force in 2004 so that the activities of the subsidised organisations could continue. Over recent months, the main rapporteur and the draftsmen of the committee opinions have worked together to maintain a common position for the seven proposals with the Council at all times. I would now like to focus on the result of the conciliation of 24 November, the essential points of which were the duration of the programmes, the financial contribution and, above all, the issue of pre-allocation or earmarking, which is undoubtedly the main stumbling block. Before that, however, I would like to offer my profound gratitude to all the rapporteurs of the committees involved and the general rapporteur, Mr Mulder. First stumbling block, the duration of programmes. The European Parliament requested that all the programmes should be of the same duration, until 2006, in other words, until the end of the current financial perspectives, a position which was accepted by the Council. Secondly, with regard to the financial contribution, I believe we can feel more than satisfied, since we have been able – if you pardon the expression – to ‘wrench out’, as a total for the seven programmes, EUR 23.1 million, more than the sum proposed by the Council. Those of us with experience of this House know how difficult it is at times to get anything out of the Council, however insignificant. Thirdly, with regard to pre-allocation – which I said was the most troublesome issue – the agreement provides for the inclusion of beneficiaries in the basic instruments, specifically in the citizenship and culture programmes for 2004 and 2005, and with appropriations within lines, not in reserve – as voted for at first reading – but with the same quantity. This means that with a view to the renegotiation of the programmes after 2006 – that is, the renegotiation in 2005 for the new programmes in 2007 – the benefiting organisations have sufficient time to adapt to and prepare for the system of invitations to tender, as laid down in the Regulation. Finally, I believe we can all take mutual pleasure in this result, because in this way not only do we have the house in order but we also guarantee that the valuable activities of the different organisations included in these programmes are not jeopardised or interrupted. Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor. I must say that it is very hard for me to follow on from the last intervention. When Mr Puerta mentioned some of ETA’s victims, he made no reference to someone who was killed by ETA 16 years ago. I believe he did this out of respect for me. The person I am talking about was a socialist senator who was also a member of the Basque regional parliament. His name was Enrique Casas.  Madam President, Senator Casas was my husband. I was left a widow with four children, the youngest of whom was only eight months old. My husband was an Andalusian by birth and a senator for the Basque Country. He had been sent by the Basque Government to defend the Basque Country in Madrid. His only crime was that he was a socialist and a democrat and nothing more. Madam President, I have never spoken of this here apart from on the day that ETA declared the cease-fire which I welcomed as a ray of hope for all Basque people and for the whole of Spain and Europe. This was the only time I had spoken of my husband’s death but I must do so again today and I do it willingly. Madam President, I was born in Germany, educated in Sweden and married to a Spaniard. I know what democracy is because I had the good fortune to grow up in a country like Sweden which has a long democratic tradition. I arrived in the Basque Country keen to integrate and, despite what has happened to me, I am convinced that some day the Basque Country will achieve the peace it desires. To those who believe that there is conflict in the Basque Country, I would say that the only conflict in the Basque Country goes by the name of ETA and must be eliminated. As for the other problems, we can talk about these.  We democrats can solve the other problems by allowing everyone to put forward their ideas, because freedom of expression, free elections and freedom in general do exist in the Basque Country. The only restriction on this freedom is ETA which must therefore be eliminated. Then we democrats can talk. – Mr President, just two final touches to add to the 2001 budget, which are totally unconnected. Firstly, I would like to say something about the backlog of payments which each year causes headaches as a result of the Council’s eagerness to cut payment appropriations, with the aim of obtaining this absurd and false saving, which looks very good on the national balance sheet, but which in reality only produces what we call a burden for the future, because it is clear that what has been committed to – commitments entered into – in previous financial years has to be fulfilled. And what we have heard today from the Council, according to which there have not been any problems with payments, is not true. It is not true, and I would have liked to have been able to remind Mr Patriat in person that in 1998 payments were even suspended for the Social Fund because EUR 1 million were lacking for the Structural Funds. This is something that has been repeated. There have always been a great deal of problems with payments. Having said this, and also taking into account that the Commission itself has admitted that for 2001 applications from Member States for payments for the Structural Funds exceed the predictions of the PDB by EUR 8 000 million, I think that it is now time for the Council to start considering very seriously that we should do something about payments and not increase the backlog of payments. I would also like to express my concern about the fact that the various Youth Parliaments have been included in the Socrates programme. I am in no doubt about the reason for the existence of these parliaments, but there is no harm in pointing out that the Socrates programme derives from a legislative codecision procedure between Parliament and the Council, and that decisions such as this set a serious precedent which will, in the future, allow the inclusion of comments on programmes of any type of action that do not fit in elsewhere. I think that this distorts the legislative procedure for adopting programmes and, above all, the content of those programmes. –  Mr President, the decision relating to discharge for the 1997 financial year was postponed because the erstwhile Commission, to whom it was to be granted, had stepped down before the appointed time and was only continuing in office in a caretaker capacity. Mrs van der Laan’s report – on which she has lavished a great deal of hard work, and for which we are indebted to her – proposes that we should grant discharge to the Commission for 1997. One might ask how it is that the current Commission is to receive the discharge for its predecessor’s budgetary management – Mr Camre just mentioned this – particularly as the discharge for the previous year, 1996, was denied. That is just the way things are, however. In taking over the mandate, the new Commission has to assume responsibility not just for the achievements of the past but also for the mistakes made. Since, on account of the college system, discharge can only be granted to the Commission as a whole or, alternatively, denied or postponed, it is no longer of any consequence that four former Commissioners who belonged to the previous Commission that has yet to be discharged, crop up again as Members of this body. This question ought to have been asked when the new Commission was appointed. If Parliament votes in favour of the Committee on Budgetary Control’s proposal this week and grants discharge, then the Commission must not take this to be a blank cheque. For it is the third section of Mrs van der Laan’s report that is the most important, to my mind, namely the motion for a resolution. The comments contained within, under eight headings, are an integral part of the discharge, the implementation of which forms the basis of our decision. In the course of the discharge procedure for the coming years – that for 1998 is already under way – Parliament will have to examine, as a matter of urgency, whether or not it was too quick to bestow premature praise on the Commission for 1997. We will be in a position to judge just as soon as the Commission presents its reform programme. We will be able to use the discharge procedure for 1998 to check whether efficiency, transparency and accountability, and likewise a sincere willingness to provide information, are being displayed vis-à-vis the discharge authority. .I will continue the explanation of vote started by my colleague Mr Colom i Naval. There were people, however, such as Mr Stoiber, in such a prosperous region as Bavaria, who considered that it was in their electoral interest to name a price which might appear in a newspaper headline: a programme – with no legal basis, by the way – for cross-border cooperation with the candidate countries, funded with some of the money intended for fishing conversion. Demagoguery is contagious and others followed his example and the conversion programme was taken hostage, despite the fact that there were already appropriations for cross-border cooperation, at least in B5-3003, B5-0510, B2-0141, B3-1010, B3-1021 or B3-0306. I would like to stress that we are in favour of the intention to prepare these regions and that they have always had our support. What we are not satisfied with is the fact that it is done to the detriment of the regions affected by an unexpected conversion. And, although the resolution states that in 1999 it was not envisaged that enlargement could have consequences for the bordering Community regions, this is not the case. In Germany, for example, the border States will have Community aid of more than EUR 10.5 billion. We have rarely seen such a miserly and nationalistic spectacle in this House! This would be typical of the Council. We voted in favour, but without enthusiasm. We did so because we do not want to sacrifice those poor regions of the Iberian coast, but also out of solidarity with these regions and also with those bordering the candidate countries, a solidarity which has been sadly lacking in this negotiation. – Mr President, I would like to offer a few explanations. In a debate, there is always the danger that we will repeat much of what has already been said. However, I would like to concentrate on two points. Firstly, I would like to make it very clear that the Union is the main contributor to aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo. I would like to point out to Mrs Albright that what we have read recently in the press is true, and that figures do not lie. Let us make this clear, however much some people may not wish to believe it. The Union has decided to assist with a further EUR 35 million in additional macrofinancial aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo, on the basis of an IMF report which estimates that a further EUR 115 million is needed for that reconstruction. I would like to say to Mrs Pack that I am in complete agreement with her when she says that the Commission should insist that other contributors fulfil their commitments. I would also like to express my concern – which is very considerable – at the statement by some Ministers at the last Ecofin that says that it should be a priority of the Portuguese Presidency not to alter, in any circumstances, the financial perspectives agreed in Berlin. This calls into question the agreement which Parliament reached, with great difficulty, with the Council in December, according to which, when the Commission presents a multiannual programme for reconstruction, the financial perspectives would be reviewed where necessary. I would like to appeal to those Ministers not to cast doubt upon that agreement which was really very difficult to reach. I would like to ask the Commission – and I am glad that Commissioner Solbes is here with us this evening – to present us in time with this multiannual finance programme, with the corresponding report, requested by Parliament, so that it may be taken into account when the preliminary draft of the next budget is drawn up, as we have been promised. Lastly, I would like to insist that, although we have agreed to EUR 35 million now, we know that this is a stopgap solution and that it is not enough, and we should therefore reach an agreement as soon as possible on the multiannual reconstruction programme for Kosovo, which is so badly needed. – Commissioner, I would like to offer a brief reminder. CONNECT saw the light of day with the 1999 budget, as a preparatory action covering 1999 to 2002. In fact, it was my baby. I am therefore rather surprised – if your words have been translated properly – that no assessment has been carried out until now, because CONNECT should have begun and did begin, I am sure, at the beginning of 1999. I am also sure, Commissioner, that there is currently not a single official or agent of the Commission dealing with the operation of the CONNECT programme, nor a single spokesperson for those organisations which are currently implementing projects. I would be grateful if you could tell me how this situation can be reconciled with the reply that you have given. – Mr President, firstly, I am against the urgency for the reasons expounded by the chairman of the Committee on Budgets. There is, in fact, no urgency because the money would be released for August. Secondly, if we look carefully, in the line which has been applied until now, there are still EUR 20 million which have not been used. Therefore, there is no uncertainty and no urgency and we can study this issue again, calmly, at a later date. –  Mr President, please allow me to highlight a few points as rapporteur of the 1999 budget. Firstly the 1999 budget was defined at the time as a “bridge” towards the new financial requirements, that is towards the financing of Agenda 2000. Secondly, it was also a bridge with regard to the political priorities which this Parliament wanted to establish with a view to the future, with a view to the new millennium, especially in category 4 – external activities – where the European Parliament made an effort to increase the commitment appropriations. And finally, the European Parliament also increased the payment appropriations in the 1999 budget in view of the clear shortfall of one billion in payment appropriations, a shortfall which had appeared, above all, in the Social Funds. Now, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we find ourselves with four supplementary and amending budgets (SABs), with 41 transferrals and a fifth amending budget. This is a record. It is also a record that we have taken less than 150 hours to arrive at the first and only reading of this SAB 4. On the one hand, we have amending budget no. 1. This does not cause any problem, it is a normal procedure, it is the surplus of the 1998 budget which, normally, is returned to the Member States. But it deserves to be taken into account when we speak of the other amending budgets. As for SAB 3, I will leave it to my colleague, Mr Fabra Vallés, to go into more detail. I will turn directly to SAB 4, which proposes 137 million in commitment appropriations for the creation of an Agency for the Reconstruction of Kosovo, for macro-financial aid for the former Yugoslavian Republic of Macedonia and 30 million in humanitarian aid for Turkey as a result of the earthquake. And, in payment appropriations, aid of 180 million for PHARE, the former Yugoslavia and Kosovo. And, apart from that, 15 posts for OLAF. Mr President, once we have looked at the fact that all the contents of SAB 4 were to be reallocated within category 4, in view of the fact that Parliament and the Council have decided to finance these within title B-1 Agriculture, I will change the subject a little because my problem is not with the SABs. My problem is not the urgency, and is not the fact that we have to provide aid through finance which was not anticipated. I have another pressing problem, Mr President. It is that when I read page 12 of the Spanish version of the preliminary draft supplementary and amending budget no. 4/99, I realise that we are only dealing with the tip of the iceberg. Because here the Commission tells us literally that, despite the fact that we have made this financing effort through reallocation, a further sum of 570.5 million is required, which the Commission intends to reallocate in the global transferral or in a supplementary transferral during this financial year. The Commission also recognises that the reallocation of this sum is not yet possible in category 4, but says that an extensive effort should be made to make a reallocation within the budget as a whole. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this terrifies me, because at the end of the financial year of the 1999 budget – to refer to a Spanish proverb – “not even the rapporteur is going to recognise her own budget”. With so many reallocations, the most serious matter is the fact that the European Parliament’s own priorities, voted for in December, no longer exist. They have been totally changed because the budgetary authority of Parliament has been undermined by this continuous reallocation. I warn you of this, Mr President, in consideration of the 2000 budget. On pages 8 and 12, there is an equally terrifying problem: we have increased the payment appropriations. In this case, the Commission says that even so it is calculated that we are still missing 650.5 million in payment appropriations. Add to this the fact that an SEM 2000 forecast says that the possible shortfall in payment appropriations for the Structural Funds in 1999 is going to be even greater than in 1997 and 1998. Mr President, this “burden of the future” which you talked about years ago in the Committee on Budgets, is now the burden of the present, because I believe that we have ignored your “warning” and we have not been sufficiently strong as a Parliament to prevent this false saving on the part of the Council, which presents a payment budget while carefully forgetting that the commitments have to be fulfilled. This is the plea I would make with regard to the 2000 budget: we must not carry on like this. As rapporteur for the 1999 budget, the 2000 budget must – as I see it – anticipate a review of the Financial Perspective. It has been announced and the figures are there. It must include a considerable increase in payment appropriations, not only to prevent the burden from becoming even heavier, but also to prevent the paralysing of payments in the Community’s programmes. I hope that the 1999 budget will serve at least to prevent these mistakes in the future. . –  Mr President, the framework regulation on reforming the CFP does not yet cover the financial implications of the reform for the Community budget. These implications are to be presented in separate proposals and the Committee on Budgets will therefore examine them thoroughly at the appropriate time. The sums forecast for implementing the reform, however, are fairly modest, and include, in Chapter B-II 90, ‘Support measures for the Common Fisheries Policy’: EUR 1 million to create a joint inspection structure, EUR 100 000 to create four regional advisory councils and EUR 1 million to improve scientific advice. The Committee on Budgets is in favour of these three actions under the reform and has approved the sums proposed, keeping them in reserve as proposed by the Commission, pending the definitive adoption of the framework regulation. The Committee on Budgets nonetheless considers that Parliament should be able to examine closely the detailed proposals presented by the Commission on each one of these actions, taking account of their repercussions, in particular on human resources, administrative spending and missions and Comitology meetings. I would like to ask the Commission to clarify one point with regard to improving scientific advice. The framework Regulation stipulates the sum of EUR 4 million; the Commission, however, in the preliminary draft budget, states that only EUR 1 million, held in reserve, will be allocated to this action. At the same time, we see that the Commission has increased this sum by EUR three million in comparison with last year. This amount, in addition to the EUR one million in reserve, could represent a general increase of EUR four million, as laid down in the framework Regulation. As this is not clear, however, my question to the Commission is this: is the EUR four million increase – three plus one – allocated to improving scientific advice, as stipulated in the framework Regulation, or on the contrary, will this action benefit solely from the EUR one million held in reserve? And in the latter case, what does the Commission intend to do with the EUR three million increase in the B-II 904 heading? With regard to Mr Varela’s report, which concerns one of the main elements of CFP reform – reducing the capacity of the EU fishing fleet – the Committee on Budgets assumes, as it is bound to, that the Committee on Fisheries considers it necessary to apply scrapping measures. We therefore need to implement other less drastic, reversible measures, such as evaluating the number of vessels to which this measure would apply, and the Committee on Budgets is therefore only giving its opinion on the financial impact of scrapping. The draft Regulation stipulates an initial sum of EUR 32 million for 2003, as a special incentive for cofinancing. It also calculates the total additional sums required during the 2003-2006 period to be EUR 271.6 million. The Committee on Budgets considers that financing the new action is incompatible with the maximum limit under Heading 2 of the current financial perspective and that it will therefore only be possible to make available the EUR 32 million already laid down for the 2003 budget by mobilising additional appropriations using the instruments provided for by the interinstitutional agreement. . Mr President, Commissioner, today we are going to vote on three more reports from the package of seven. They are all aimed at providing a legal basis for the various subsidies in the former lines known as A-30, and on Monday 24 November we will hold a conciliation meeting with the Council, in which we will try to reach a consensus which allows us to approve all of these proposals before the end of this year, so that they may be executed in 2004. In fact, the most serious problem we are facing now is ensuring that the appropriations intended for these subsidies can be executed during next year. I would therefore address the European Commission, which, in its communication to the Council and European Parliament, when commenting on the proposals, spoke of transitional measures in the event that the basic instruments are not approved before the end of this year. It appears that the transitional measure in question consists of extending the time limit for approval until the end of January 2004, which in truth does not solve the problem, because both Commissioner Schreyer and Commissioner Reding have said very explicitly that, if the legal bases have not been approved before the end of January, the appropriations will not be able to be executed. I would therefore like to remind the Commission of its own words and I quote: ‘In the event that this objective is not achieved, the Commission will propose, in due time, exceptional transitional measures which will allow subsidies to be allocated in 2004 while awaiting the adoption of the basic instruments’. It is clear that extending the time limit until the end of January 2004 is not a transitional measure, since it does not allow execution if these basic instruments have not been approved. Parliament has made an effort to work very quickly in order to make it in time, but we do not know what is going to happen in the conciliation procedure and, if it fails, the commission is obliged to stand by its word and seek a solution – and I would repeat its own words – in order to ‘allocate subsidies in 2004 while awaiting the adoption of the basic instruments’. With regard to the conciliation of 24 November, the fundamental issues to be negotiated are going to be, firstly, the financial contribution for each programme, their duration and the application of degressivity – which has already been mentioned – but, above all, it is the issue of the application of the pre-allocation in what we call ear-marking which will undoubtedly be the main stumbling block, Commissioner. I will therefore expand further on this point. The pre-allocation relates to the proposal on culture and citizenship, and Parliament wishes to maintain its right to this prerogative, and this is something it is going to defend before the Council. I would like to say once again that I have never been in favour of pre-allocation, but, like Mrs Rühle, I must recognise that, recently and above all thanks to the Commission's attitude, I am beginning to change my opinion, because, when I see the Commission's unwillingness to find a solution for the executability of the subsidies in 2004, when I see the Commission's attitude to the executability of pilot projects and preparatory actions adopted by Parliament at first reading, I begin to ask myself many questions, Commissioner, and if the Commission simply places obstacles in the way of all of this Parliament's initiatives in the budget, it has no choice but to fight harder to defend its prerogatives. And the Commission should not tell me that its proposals already provide for pre-allocation; the Commission is completely convinced and knows that, in any event, we were going to have the stumbling block with the Council. Mr Kinnock, I am very sorry that the Commission is taking no notice of my appeals, but I have been surprised and irritated to see that the Commission published in the Official Journal of the European Union of 18 November, that is to say, the day before yesterday, the invitation for proposals for 2004 for organisations which promote mutual understanding in relations between the European Union and certain non-industrialised regions of the world, in other words the Sacrédeus report, which we are going to vote on today from 12 noon. It seems to be very serious that the Commission has allowed this invitation to be published before Parliament has approved its position and, naturally, before the Council has adopted its decision. In other words, there is currently no legal basis for this invitation. It may be the case that by doing so the Commission wanted to speed up the procedures in order to facilitate the execution for 2004 but I sincerely believe that it has exceeded its powers. In any event, with all the problems we still have to resolve on Monday 24, I hope, Mr President, that Parliament and the Council can negotiate all of this successfully. –  Mr President, year after year we learn, mainly from the European Court of Auditors’ test reports, that money is lost to the budget of the European Union on account of misdemeanours ranging from wastage, mismanagement, and irregularities to suspected blatant fraud. For some time now, these abuses have meant that Parliament has been called upon to initiate measures that should serve to protect the European taxpayer’s money, which, when all is said and done, is what sustains the Union’s budget. Particular attention in this respect should be given to combating fraud, to detecting it, punishing those guilty of it and preventing it from happening. Creating UCLAF by means of the Task Force and setting up the anti-fraud office OLAF were important steps, as was the regulation on protecting the financial interests of the Community and on local monitoring. The Union can only impose sanctions in the field pertaining to administrative law when cases are exposed. So far, efforts on the part of the Commission to ask for improperly obtained money to be returned only had limited success. It is for the Member States to undertake criminal measures. Since there is often overlap between the two legal angles and cross-border violations against the Union budget are on the increase – they are also committed by those involved in organised crime – it is unclear as to where the responsibility lies amongst the Member States. Then there are differences between the national legal requirements of the individual Member States, together with protracted or even unfulfilled requests for mutual assistance in law enforcement. What is more, the agreement on the protection of financial interests and the two subsequent protocols signed by the European Council in 1995 did nothing to change this. For it to enter into force, it must be ratified by all 15 Member States. After five years only four have done so. This state of deadlock, which threatens to undermine the credibility of the Union, has inspired Parliament to initiate the setting-up of a European Public Prosecutor’s Office. There is no intention whatsoever to create a transnational criminal law and judicial authority, rather the aim is to equip the Union with specific instruments for the protection of its financial interests, that is whilst upholding the principle of subsidiarity. We are giving new life to this idea with this report and call upon the Commission to present legislative proposals that will enable this goal to be realised. The concerns of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, as articulated in its position, together with those of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, will also be taken full account of in this process. We would like to make two recommendations arising from the establishment of OLAF and which should safeguard its operational and legal efficiency, transparency, and the protection of the rights of individuals. In addition, we need – and this is my first recommendation – a legislative act that includes those offences which are to the detriment of the Union’s financial interests, and in which main principles are firmly established. I support the proposed deadline for the Commission being 30 September in a proposed amendment. The second recommendation relates to criminal proceedings. The Commission ought – and I have also amended this deadline to 31 May 2000 – to propose a legislative act on the establishment of an independent body which has institutional links with the Commission, for coordinating and supervising the legal investigative body OLAF. The existing monitoring committee can only monitor the independence of the Director of the agency. The proposal for a legislative act of this kind should contain an independent statute for this body and define its tasks, which are confined to inquiries and criminal prosecution undertaken by OLAF into activities which are to the detriment of the Union’s financial interests, and to OLAF’s relationship with the national authorities. There is no question of this influencing the administration of justice in the Member States. The Court of Justice is to monitor the legality of the legislative acts. In addition, we call upon the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference to take up debate on the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor’s Office for the protection of the financial interests of the Union, where possible on the basis of the now widely recognised study compiled by well-known experts, the so-called , and of the feasibility studies that have subsequently appeared. Further support for this proposal is also to be found in the second report of the so-called Five Wise Men. The Commission, Mr Barnier, Mr Vitorino and several Member States are equally receptive to the idea. I call upon you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this report, which the Committee on Budgetary Control adopted with a large majority. We can set another example here, to the effect that Parliament is taking action to prevent mismanagement and in particular, fraud, and to mete out punishment where necessary. – Mr President, I congratulate you. This is a genuine Parliament and we are embarking on a debate. I believe that we should be grateful for that. Mrs Schreyer, I agree with you and I am very pleased that agricultural expenditure will in fact have to fund this last SAB. But I also take you at your word when you say that we are going to take great care in the budget to ensure that the reassignments do not alter the priorities that the European Parliament has set. The examples which I gave earlier were, curiously, genuine priorities. And I take your word so that in 2000, as part of a joint effort, which is much more intense and much more open, we may from the outset prevent priorities such as the Baltic regions or actions in favour of children from being the first to be affected, because there is a suspicion that it is perhaps not you who do not want to carry them out, but rather other powers which are behind it. – Mr President, I would like to reply to Mrs Schreyer, in a general way, on the comments we made. Mrs Schreyer, I believe that you will have been able to deduce – from these and also from my intervention in September – that we are very concerned about the need to rectify and reassign the amounts within the budget itself. Mrs Schreyer, I would like to ask you a simple question: has the Commission, given what we have heard here in September and today, addressed the question of how, in the budget for 2000, we can avoid the situation whereby, in the middle of November, we are still producing a supplementary, amending and transferring budget? And a final question: is there anything else on the waiting list before the end of the year for the 1999 budget? As rapporteur, I would like to know. – Mr President, I will restrict my brief comments to fisheries. I would like to point out that the second reading, in which we are going to approve the international fisheries agreements which have not caused any great problems, is a mere formality. Nevertheless, the main battle we have fought has been to fulfil the commitment acquired last year to alleviate the effects on the Community fishing fleet which fished in Moroccan waters, in view of the failure to reach an agreement with that country to renew the fishing agreement. It is well known that the Council, despite having acquired this commitment in its draft budget for 2003, removed the EUR 27 million laid down by the Commission in the preliminary draft budget. Nevertheless, the European Parliament – above all by means of its Socialist rapporteur on the financial perspectives, Mr Colom i Naval – with the support of the Parliamentary Group of the European Socialist Party, managed to find a solution on this issue, finally adopting EUR 15 million in transfers at the close of 2002 and EUR 12 million by means of the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for 2003. Of course, my group is going to support this agreement at second reading. It will vote in favour of this agreement which it fought for and promoted and I hope that the role of the Socialist MEPs is made sufficiently clear, both during the negotiations and in its conclusion. The reason I am insisting on this issue is to prevent, Mr President, any repetition of the unfounded accusations of continuous boycott made by the President of the Spanish Government, Mr Aznar, against the Parliamentary Group of the European Socialist Party, in the most unscrupulous manner, in an attempt, as always, to confuse the public. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to add my voice to the messages of condolence and thanks to the honourable Members. Europe has been affected in an incomparable way by the problem of flooding and must be part of the solution to this immediate problem we are facing. Therefore, the urgency demanded by the honourable Members and assistance which goes beyond mere words are the two elements that are absolutely essential for this Parliament to demonstrate. Mr President, fresh money is needed to provide aid; not just the money planned for, but new contributions. We must bear in mind that this House has contributed for many years to the 1.27 limit of the European Union’s budget never having been used and therefore a substantially smaller proportion than that has been used. I believe that Mr Barnier has introduced some absolutely essential considerations and details. I am a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and it is clear that flexibility is fundamental in reprogramming, that the efficiency reserve must be used for this task, revitalising small and medium-sized businesses, which are the driving force for normalisation and recovery and that prioritising the defence of our infrastructures must be an essential element of the new priorities. Mr President, I will end by saying that, while we have been able to save for many years, solidarity now requires that we be generous. – Mr President, Commissioner, this directive and this proposal have their own personality. We began with the rapporteur’s positions, which gradually changed and which at the moment are being transformed by Parliament’s vote. I must firstly congratulate the rapporteur on doing his job, which is to defend the position of Parliament and not his initial position. Furthermore, these negotiations have helped us to understand that Parliament must respect the Commission’s exclusive powers of legislative initiative. Some Members have tried to introduce proposals, but this has not been possible, which I believe is positive, because we must all respect everybody else’s role. This directive attempts to open up a European area of transport, which is absolutely essential, because at the moment the State areas are of no use to us. This directive, with its proposal to open up the market, attempts to stimulate a mode of transport which is very positive in terms of its relationship with the environment. Until now, maritime transport, apart from the transport of oil and dangerous goods, has been secondary, but it provides the possibility of improving European transport from the point of view of the environment, congestion and safety. We have already had experience of access to the market in relation to other means of transport and there have been no dramas or traumas; therefore, what there has been is an increase in their management capacity. It is true that, at the moment, with the proposals in the directive, we are not talking about reducing the number of jobs in ports. We are talking about increasing the number of workers in ports while making them more efficient. We must also forget the idea that liberalisation and lack of safety go hand in hand. Aviation is a mode of transport in which safety is vital and nobody can claim that its liberalisation reduces safety. Let us not forget, Mr President, that Parliament has made a great effort to bring its position closer to yours. In conciliation you must now reciprocate in relation to self-loading and pilotage. – Madam President, we are holding a real parliamentary debate because the positions were initially differing. I must congratulate Mr Ferber and Mr Simpson on the excellent work they have carried out and which we are able to consider this morning. From the Spanish experience, which has been mentioned a few times, I believe that Parliament’s amendments improve on the Commission’s proposal because it introduces moderation – strict moderation – into the pace of opening up and liberalisation. We all agree on the need for this opening up and liberalisation, but the pace is important. One message went completely unnoticed at the Nice European Council, and I think it is also close to Parliament’s position, which is that services of general interest must be taken clearly into account and be clearly favoured. Madam President, the service we are considering faces fierce competition from the new information and communication technologies. That competition cannot be considered in current terms, because the use of those technologies is undergoing a dramatic increase and we therefore have to view the issue with a little perspective. This sector is already suffering from enormous competition from those new technologies. We have included the special services in the directive itself, and I believe that Parliament has given them the added value that they must have because, otherwise, the Commission’s proposal could become a back door through which the services of general interest could be attacked. Madam President, in dealing with this issue we are talking about economic and social cohesion. It is very important to understand that it is not only the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Funds that have the task of defending economic and social cohesion; it is all the Union’s policies, as laid down in Article 158 of the EC Treaty. Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the Commission on this initiative and acknowledge the excellent work Mr Lisi has done by means of the different parliamentary process we have seen. I do not believe that anybody disputes the importance of the air sector, but I am from a country for which the air sector is of great strategic importance. I believe that those countries with a high level of tourism have a greater interest than anybody in the air sector being more solvent and having greater capacity, since vital elements of development depend on it in numerous European countries. But it is true that this is perfectly compatible with passengers being compensated for the harm done to them. What is the harm done to a passenger when they are delayed? Is it simply that they are made to wait two, three or four hours in the departure hall? When there is an overbooking, what harm is done to the passenger? It would be very difficult to evaluate that harm, but I am absolutely certain that it is a harm which goes much further than the compensation which we are establishing here, at times without any possible comparison. We must therefore deal with it. I believe that this Parliament has carried out a very important and interesting exercise with this report. I would therefore like to thank Mr Lisi for the care he has taken. Parliament has moderated – and even reduced, in some cases – the proposals presented to us by the Commission and the Council. We have taken account of the objective interests and the survival of companies, which does credit to this Parliament and, naturally, it seems to me absolutely essential that we stop classifying many of the specious arguments that companies frequently give passengers as ‘extraordinary circumstances’. I believe we have begun an interesting process. Let us hope that it is extended to other forms of transport and that we go further in this direction. – Mr President, we are dealing with a good Commission document and a good document by the rapporteur. From a theoretical point of view, I can only welcome them, because I believe they are well thought out and that they correctly mark out the direction which these funds should take. Now, the problem does not exactly lie with the text, but with the budget, on the one hand, which is a reduced budget, slimmed down compared to the one which the European Union has dedicated to such an important area on previous occasions and, on the other, with the lack of prestige which this budget seems to have, which means that one can dip in and out of it and that it is not clearly consolidated. I make this comment so that the Commissioner can take it into account. However, we are, of course, talking about the European Regional Development Fund. This Fund was created for very real and substantial policies, investments in roads, investments in direct infrastructures, and it must now be brought up to date with the new economic situation and the new competitive circumstances. That is a fundamental objective for the Commission: that the ERDF, which has had its time and whose influence has been very positive, should become the motor for an increase in the competitiveness of our production system, particularly in the least-favoured regions. Therefore, innovative factors like this one, however humble, must not be undervalued by anyone. It could be said that innovation is within reach of all the operators involved in the production process. For certain regions it will possibly be very difficult to have real research or development systems. But innovation is the basis of competitiveness and it must exist even where there is no capacity for research, and this objective is therefore important. We are logically talking about 0.4% of the ERDF. There is a passage in Mr Markov’s draft, Commissioner, which I would like you to take into account and which says, and with this I shall end: “suggests likewise, given the scant budgetary allocation set aside for innovatory measures, that the Commission encourage the incorporation of this type of project in the regional operational programmes”. Mr President, Commissioner, I am sorry that Mr Sterckx is not present in the House, and I am sure that he has pressing reasons for this, but I would like Mr Vermeer to pass on to him that this committee is making progress as a result of the  disaster and that, as of this moment, we have an excellent Commission proposal and an excellent report by Mr Sterckx on safety at sea. Is Parliament really asking Mr Sterckx for an own-initiative report on safety at sea in this situation? This would not be very logical. Everyone is aware that what Parliament is asking for is an investigatory committee on the , precisely in order to clarify what has happened and to avoid repetition, in order to establish that seriously damaged vessels should not be sent to the open seas to sink, but that ports of refuge should be provided. This committee should have made it very clear that this should not be repeated, that we cannot get away with pollution and that not everything can be resolved through commercial relations and political dependencies. None of this appears in Mr Sterckx’s report. The experts have been ignored, not to say scoffed at, and I am sorry that Mr Sterckx has reneged on the pact that he made with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in order to have, at this time, the President of the House that we have. I must, however, give Mr Sterckx some bad news: in his investiture report, the President of the Spanish Government has decided to create a monitoring committee on the . We will be able to continue clarifying and providing information in spite of the European Parliament. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, in view of what one Member said, I believe that this is a very appropriate time to discuss economic and social cohesion. Let us hope that this notion transcends European borders and is applied to other regions. This would probably be a solution to many conflicts. While it is true that this is a good time for the debate, I must also recognise that, at least in my opinion, the responses from the Council and the Commission are unsatisfactory. Firstly, I find it difficult to believe that we can talk about social and economic cohesion without making the least reference to the single market and all the policies of the European Union. We are currently negotiating the Sixth Framework Programme, a programme which from the outset does not fulfil the cohesive conditions required of it by the Treaties. Economic and social cohesion demands that we take it into account in all our policies. Mr President, Mr Barnier asked this Parliament certain questions in this report. When we asked the Council these same questions, it indicated that this was not the appropriate time to answer them, but Parliament has the right to ask the Commission and the Council these questions so that we might know their opinion, before producing our report. I profoundly and fundamentally disagree with the Council’s attitude, and to a lesser extent with that of the Commissioner, because I believe that certain fundamental issues must be clarified immediately. We are talking about how the 2006 project is going to affect various regions in the future. If we do not do so we will constantly be talking in theory about this issue and we will never bring about the reform necessary for economic and social cohesion in Europe, because we will be looking askance at one another: some of us talking about how we have to remove the Cohesion Fund, others saying that certain regions have to leave it. This confusion will prevent us from getting down to a thorough analysis of the issue. Mr President, I have a high regard for Mr Barnier, as does the whole of my group. We value his work greatly. I should like this to go on record. I therefore formally endorse the statements made by previous speakers. Essentially, we agree with the basic approach drafted by the Commission further to Mr Barnier’s proposal. We agree with the minimum 0.45% for the three objectives. We agree with bringing Lisbon-Gothenburg and employment under cohesion. We also agree to the College of Commissioners’ 1.24% proposal. The rapporteur represents the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. It is regrettable that he is not prepared to defend the 1.24% proposed by the Commission. Our proposal is therefore lower than the proposal made by the College of Commissioners. I find this most disappointing. I simply cannot understand why this is the case, when we tabled so many amendments on this subject. There is agreement in principle with the Commission’s proposal. I should like to emphasise two key issues. The first concerns the ultra-peripheral regions. It is important to try to ensure these regions retain substantial aid, regardless of their per capita income. Seventy-five on mainland Europe does not mean the same as 75% at a distance of 3 000 km from the mainland. Finally, I should like to emphasise how important it is for this House to stand up for fair criteria. A case in point is the need to ensure that the statistical effect does not have a negative impact on any institution in receipt of European funding. We have argued this strongly. Indeed the College of Commissioners made a proposal along these lines for the regions. Parliament has no objections. Anyone who maintains the opposite is not speaking the truth and is sending out the message that the statistical effect cannot affect Member States reducing the Cohesion Fund either. I know of one country at 83% of average income. This is set to change to 92% because of the statistical effect. The limit is 90%. I urge you to be flexible between now and when the vote is taken, Mr Hatzidakis. – Commissioner, I agree that there can be no union without economic and social cohesion, and that there can be no cohesion without means. I also agree that the Structural Funds used have been effective and positive. My specific question is therefore: is enlargement possible without an additional effort on the part of the European Union – from the moment of the first accessions – above and beyond this budgetary reserve? Secondly, Commissioner, I must say that there is disquiet in certain European regions and some of your replies do not provide any comfort, although it is true that we are in a context of a very rapid dialogue. However, for this very reason I believe it is necessary to specify something else. You say that we have to find a solution for those regions which are currently receiving funds, especially the Objective 1 regions. I would like you to be more specific, Commissioner. What is going to happen, according to your criteria, to Castilla-La Mancha, Estremadura, Andalusia, Galicia, regions of Portugal and Greece, and ‘’ which have just entered Objective 1? Let us be specific, because disquiet in those regions will only be prevented by clarity. – Let us try to redirect the situation because your reply has also been very general. You will know, Commissioner, that the headlines of the entire Spanish press, and not just the largest newspapers, today feature the serious irregularities uncovered by the inspection of the Agriculture Department of the Council of Communities of Castilla la Mancha in the flax processing companies which were in dispute and have been examined and analysed by the Committee which has been mentioned. Since you know about this, I would like to ask you what information you can provide regarding the investigation, which I imagine you are also carrying out in your Directorate-General, with regard to flax and premium hunters. Do you not have any information of your own? Will you take account of the information supplied by the Agriculture Department which I have mentioned? If the Agriculture Department inspection indicates evidence of serious irregularities in the flax processing companies, should the corresponding subsidies be paid or should we await the conclusion of your Directorate-General? Commissioner, the worst possible approach would be to try to prematurely close an investigation such as this flax investigation, which involves senior members of the Spanish Government in relation to the illegal payment of subsidies and fraud in this aid for the flax processing industry. There could be nothing worse than to close our eyes to it. . – Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for attending this debate. Behind each of the speeches there is what I believe to be a fundamental concept. This fundamental concept is the single European transport area, a European area of transport which is not only compatible with European asymmetry but which must actually incorporate it. Europe is not equal – as Mr Sudre has just said – Europe has certain areas of infrastructure, certain peripheral regions, certain areas of cohesion, certain nuclei – more now, with enlargement – which require extremely considerable promotion, but this is not incompatible with the single European transport area. A few months ago, Commissioner, this House and the Council approved the sixth framework research programme. This programme established the single European area of research. The Commissioner said to European researchers: we have passed the stage of you meeting to tell each other what you are doing and even to cooperate on friendly terms. It is necessary to create a single European area of research so that all research capacity and effort is focussed on the same projects, has the same objectives and the same territory so that we are not therefore inventing the wheel fifteen times. Therefore, the European research area is the key to understanding all the speeches which this afternoon may have sounded like a rainbow of views which would be difficult to unite. But I can assure you that the vote tomorrow will not produce a blurred picture, as may be assumed on the basis of tonight’s debate, but a clearly defined one. You are fortunate, Commissioner, since this Parliament is saying: go ahead, you have the support of Parliament to formulate into directives the issues you have presented to us in the report on the White Paper, and you have certain additional contributions from the European Parliament which may be useful. Many doors are therefore being opened, and the Council cannot turn a deaf ear to the fundamental demands and the appeal represented by the Transport White Paper that the time has come to take decisions, to create a genuinely European policy, because, in view of this European policy, the effect will be a synergy which will respond to the reticence of those who say that the European Safety Agency will cost money, that the European Transport Fund will not be well used, of those who do not believe that intermodality in one port will benefit the whole of Europe, that investments and corridors, in any area, will benefit around 400 million Europeans once the Union has been enlarged. Therefore, Commissioner, although there is apparently a rainbow of diversity in this House, I can guarantee that we are very close together. I will end by thanking all the Members who have participated in this report, because they have offered me many ideas and entirely constructive cooperation. – Mr President, as you know, in today's Question Time there is a question of mine relating to widespread fraud in the flax industry, with thousands of millions of euros being gained fraudulently. In the question I ask the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, for his opinion of the political responsibility of Mrs Loyola de Palacio following the report of the Spanish prosecutor, which confirms this fraud. Mr President, this point of order is to ask you for express support in relation to what I am going to say. As well as finding it incredible that this question has not been considered a priority for an oral reply, I would like to tell you that, although it is reserved for a written answer, I already have in my hands a written reply, because a newspaper in my country has already stated: “In his written reply to a question put by the Socialist MEP, Juan de Dios Izquierdo, Mr Prodi has indicated that, on the basis of documents available to the Commission, he can only reaffirm his full confidence in Mrs de Palacio. Furthermore, in response to another Socialist question on the possibility that the case may destabilise the entire executive, etc.” Mr President, I have not yet received the written reply, as you might expect, and yet I have it here. I do not think that it requires much imagination to know which group has been behind the scenes, applying pressure so that my question should not be given an oral reply in Parliament and so that this newspaper should already know Mr Prodi's precise reply. Mr President, I would ask you to investigate the situation and to protect the Members of this Parliament, because this is not an example of the transparency which Mr Prodi promised us at the beginning of his mandate. – Mr President, fortunately, we are holding a debate this afternoon on the basis of a consensus, and Mr Blak’s excellent report goes hand in hand with the resulting enthusiasm on the part of our committee, which we are all very pleased about. Commissioner, I intended to begin my speech with a question: does the Commission not have any self-criticism to make? Having heard you say that the Commission’s behaviour would not now be the same as on previous occasions and that we have to seek, for the sake of cooperation in relation to good financial management, an improvement of the regulatory and commitological legal basis, I agree with Mr Van Hulten, because I believe that we are seeing an inflexion in the behaviour and attitude of the Commission. I interpret your words as self-criticism on the part of the Commission. I have approached this report via the flax issue. The countless filtrations which have taken place lead me to request that this report be declassified, and as an MEP who has read it, I can assure you that there would not be any negative effect if it were declassified and made public. We want a serious, independent and effective investigation, whether or not members of the Commission are responsible, because in Mr Blak’s report there is a very element, and that is that is asks for money which has been inappropriately and fraudulently received to be returned, as well as severe penalties in this regard. We therefore have no problem whatsoever in arguing in favour of declassification. – Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating all those who made the agreement we are discussing this afternoon possible. Firstly the two rapporteurs, Mr Jarzembowski and Mr Swoboda, then the French Presidency and finally the Commission, more particularly the Commissioner, who is present this afternoon. She is to be congratulated amongst other reasons because, thanks to her presence on the Conciliation Committee, a number of significant factors were introduced allowing Parliament to emerge with the feeling of having won a specific victory, namely the document we are debating today, and not with the sense of having lost a battle over international passenger transport and national freight transport. Rather, it felt the decision had been postponed for strategic reasons. I therefore feel we are enjoying a very positive and constructive atmosphere, in which we can tackle tasks such as that before us today. Undoubtedly, the agreement represents a historic step forward in line with other developments we are currently involved in or are about to embark on and are going through Parliament, such as enlargement and the final introduction of the single currency. Mr President, this decision does indeed open up the network, and as soon as it is opened, its management and rationalisation will be within our grasp. We need not concern ourselves about the time-scale of events, because the logic of events will allow us to move forward. That independent authority is important in the agreement. We are of course referring to the railways, attempting to promote them. Mr Jarzembowski said that the objective was for the user to pay the cost. True, that is the strategic objective, but at the moment we need to promote trains and therefore we should not rush things. At the outset, we need to offer incentives for transporting freight by train. To date, trains have not proved a viable way of transporting freight. Our freight trains travel 50% slower than trains in the United States and we have not yet been able to make a competitive offer. We need to improve the freight network, and the companies themselves have to be competitive as regards overcoming the difficulties of rail transport. Companies must be enabled to find a solution to sending their products from the company to the railway and once the destination is reached, from the railway to the company. Unless this is achieved, we shall not move forward as we ought. We are all certainly aware that the proposals before us represent a net benefit to the environment. We must therefore express our appreciation to all those who have made this agreement possible and congratulate Parliament on its unanimity. – Mr President, Commissioner, in the plenum we value your presence in the debates of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism. The fundamental axis of this report is road safety. As some honourable Members have said, lack of safety leads to 40 000 deaths and 1 750 000 injuries per year in the European Union. And there is great consensus on the part of all the groups with regard to the need to achieve the objective of safety. But here the differences begin, and we are producing proposals which will give the Council work, because the Council will have to take a position on many points on which in this House we are naturally not going to achieve unanimity. Specifically, we are talking about one of the factors of safety. It is true that there are technological factors, there are infrastructure factors, there are many agents involved in the question of safety or lack of safety, but I believe we must focus on the essential factor, the human factor, the driver in this case. On the basis of Mr Markov’s proposals, and with his cooperation, the report has developed, leading to greater flexibility for the driver, because it is the driver who is aware of levels of tiredness at any given moment and it must be they who call the shots in terms of rests and the distribution of working time. There is a gremlin which creeps into all these debates and that is that sometimes this flexibility can be used by the transport company to counter the driver’s capacity to decide. If this were the case, the system of controls on companies would have to be extremely strict, since we are talking about risking lives, in particular that of the drivers themselves. We are also talking about a very important European small or medium-sized enterprise, the transport enterprise, which we must promote and whose competitiveness we must defend. And we are talking about a transport problem in a Europe which is not equal, a Europe which has peripheral areas for which transport has an importance which is different to that of central areas. I believe that this report has important objectives, but we must continue to work on it until we reach a consensus. – Mr President, Commissioner, I feel the rapporteur deserves to be congratulated on the report. I believe he has incorporated very positive elements into it and endeavoured to steer a course avoiding both exaggeration and indifference. In order not to look the other way, I shall focus on one of the matters covered in the report – that of flax – and put some figures to the House. For instance, according to the figures, in my country, Spain, flax was grown on 3 376 hectares during the 1994-95 season. However, by the 1998-99 season it was already being cultivated on 100 000 hectares. The initial subsidy in 1994-95 amounted to ESP 411 million, whereas by 1998-99 it had risen to ESP 10 000 million. After the Spanish authorities reported the fraud, the area used for the cultivation of flax decreased as if by magic. Those 100 000 hectares were reduced to less than 1000. As a result, the subsidy fell to below ESP 100 million. Despite all this data, the head of the Ministry of Agriculture at the time maintained it was all part of an opposition campaign. True, she recently changed her mind and stated that had not been the case, but that essentially the opposition was to blame. I should like to focus on the type of liability the House might invoke. In the first place, there is penal liability as it applies to individual owners of processing plants. They were privy to special information – I am not referring to information about the regulations, which was in the public domain, but information on how they could be got round. These persons had at their disposal the capital required to set up the companies. Most importantly, they were sitting pretty, holding high office in the Ministry of Agriculture. It is therefore appropriate to invoke strictly penal liability for them and for the producers who also played the game. Parliament and the relevant institutions should do precisely that. There is another type of liability: specific political liability. This means establishing whether any of the players directly involved in the fraud had been appointed to public political office by an institution in Spain. It has to be said that such was indeed the case. One of the highest-ranking officials within the Ministry of Agriculture, the Chair of the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund, was closely connected with flax processing companies. Lastly, there is also administrative liability. If this does apply, we should call the Commission and national and local authorities to account. We should not, however, create confusion and adopt the course advocated by Mr Bösch, insisting that liabilities be itemised in detail. Mr President, we are debating a proposal for a directive the content of which is ambitious. I wonder whether we all agree on the importance of ports in terms of organising European transport. I believe not, that everybody has a different approach. Mine is that ports are fundamental to the organisation of European transport, and I am not referring to maritime transport, but to transport as a whole and, essentially, road transport. One of the questions arising from this organisation of maritime transport is – this question has been asked here – whether or not it is sustainable to try to regulate and liberalise ports. When we talk about whether it is possible to operate a sustainable transport system it is clear that, if we do not accept that one of the conditions for the sustainability of transport is a huge increase in the capacity of ports, we are moving in the opposite direction. I would therefore argue that it is absolutely essential that ports take on an infinitely greater role than the one they play at the moment, and that the environmental contribution of that transformation would be so immense that it would allow us to a large extent to resolve the great over-burden, the enormous insecurity, which is much greater than anything that can be resolved in the field of ports, and the great pollution which is currently generated by other forms of transport. But we are divided on a directive which in theory pursues a reasonable objective, decided on by Parliament, which is to liberalise the various transport sectors. I have defended Mr Jarzembowski on numerous occasions, saying that he is a constant, determined, efficient and intelligent Member of Parliament, but, on this occasion, I must say that his approach as rapporteur has been erratic and, as a result of this constant change in position, we have come to a situation of genuine confrontation in relation to a directive on which Parliament should be united. I would therefore ask that, if this directive is approved tomorrow, we continue to improve it, and that, if it is not approved, we begin to work on the next one on the basis of all the information and with greater realism than we have demonstrated so far. –  I would like to restate my colleague’s question and although I realise of course it might have been more aptly directed to the Commission, I would like to inform the Council of the reality of the situation he mentioned.  We have seen a large overall growth in the Structural Funds, but what is happening is that in some countries, the money coming from the Structural Funds is being used by the Member State under the pretext of putting it towards multiannual programmes, which means that the money received by the Communities and other regions is greatly reduced. This does not happen in other countries. In other countries, the State does not appropriate 50 or 55% of the Structural Fund money. Does the President-in-Office of the Council think that it is logical to take away so much of the European regions’ budgetary contribution? Mr President, Commissioner, we are at first reading, not at ‘second first reading’, and I must say to you, as rapporteur for the report on the White Paper, that the project you are presenting to us is organised and is in line with those recommendations. I would therefore like to congratulate and thank Mr van Miert for his work, because, naturally, the railway, the ports and maritime transport, inland waterways and roads, essentially in the enlargement countries, are quite rightly included, and we are therefore moving in the right direction. The time has now come to respect the role of Parliament. We cannot be convinced, as the rapporteur intended, that Parliament cannot modify this proposal. Parliament’s proposals are not nit-picking amendments. I believe that the Commission must continue to play its role so that many of the extremely reasonable proposals, which I am not going to refer to, are accepted, because they contain extremely positive elements. –  Mr President, I want to reiterate that this proposal was negotiated in Spanish and in English and that therefore the only thing Mr Pomés’s intervention is trying to do is generate confusion. I maintain that the corresponding Spanish translation of the English text is ‘’, because that is the truth and that is what is correct. – Mr President, Commissioner, we in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism have already told Mr Nogueira that we do not share his negative view – or at least his excessively critical view – of the application of economic and social cohesion. I would even go as far as to say that that evaluation should be positive or even better, given how brilliant the results are. We would like to make some very specific comments in relation to these two reports on the application of the Funds during the years in question. It is the case that the information is good because, firstly, Parliament’s recommendations are complied with. The balance between investments in railways and in road infrastructures, in terms of the environment, has moved into line with the parliamentary recommendation. There is no report on fraud in the application of these Funds and another series of statistical criteria are correctly complied with. But we are not the Court of Auditors. What these reports lack is more of a qualitative character: we want to know what qualitative economic and political effect these investments are having; to what extent is the metabolism of these regions being changed; to what extent are the governments correctly applying the investments, directly towards productive investments, as the structural policy demands. That is what is lacking in the reports on the application of the Cohesion Fund. And this is true in all respects. Next year we will have to examine the reports on the application of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund in 2000 and 2001. The data will not be good, but I do not want to condemn it in advance because, if the Commission demonstrates that they have been well used in terms of programming, this will be a qualitative element which Parliament will have to take into account. Madam President, Commissioner, I should first like to congratulate the rapporteurs. I believe most if not all of those present here today agree that the rapporteurs have done excellent work. They are in fact working on the Council right down to the last moment. They are still requesting greater speed in certain areas, and calling for approaches more in line with what we require. I should like to start by saying it is essential to take account of four variables if the vital importance of the subject we are concerned with today is to be properly recognised and assessed. The first is the serious situation European transport finds itself in at present, bearing in mind too the forecasts provided by all the studies received. In no way can this be a measured legislative process. On the contrary, essential urgent legislation is called for. The second is the European variable as presented by the Commissioner. It is crucial to the rationalisation of European transport. Whatever its heritage, no State can attempt to resolve its transport problems without reference to this splendid and vitally important European variable. This variable is essential. There needs to be a holistic European approach to transport problems. Thirdly, nothing other than an integrated analysis is appropriate. It is essential to understand the situation of each of the forms of transport. They all need to be involved in the solution. Railway transport is in a critical position in the context of the other forms of transport. This must be remedied. Lastly, each individual form of transport is not important in itself. What is actually important is interoperability between them. I trust rail transport will receive a new lease of life thanks to these reports and proposals. Unfortunately, although to date directives have operated efficiently in Europe, trains have not. It should be stated unambiguously that our current mission is to save the railways. That is what we are about. As Mr Simpson clearly stated, the railways are in decline. Parliament hopes to reinvigorate and strengthen them and get them back on track. Liberalisation is the only way to do so. The time for monopolies is past. In a monopoly, the railway waits for freight to arrive on its doorstep. The employees sit tight in their offices. That is how monopolies operate. By contrast, orderly, appropriate and socially responsible liberalisation involves going out to companies and local authorities in search of freight. Freight has to be sought out. I therefore believe that safety should be the only consideration governing the deadlines. No other reason is sufficiently powerful to be allowed to delay liberalisation of the railways. It has to be recognised that safety is vital. Delays could be tolerated in the interests of safety. Safety must never be used as a pretext for artificially delaying the entry into service of the various sections, however. Commissioner, these reports will highlight the importance of finance and bring it to the attention of all concerned. The railways need finance. There are no adequate budget lines for the purpose. Parliament proposed setting up a European transport fund. This proposal should be developed further in the next financial perspective. Safety is certainly the crucial factor where the railways are concerned. I would venture to remind you also, Commissioner, that road safety is another area of concern for us. We would welcome an initiative by you to ensure that the European Road Safety Agency is presented at the earliest opportunity. –  Commissioner, I am aware that you have spoken more than once on the subject of my question. However, I am taking it up on behalf of consumers’ and users’ associations. Mere talk will not placate them. The way to earn their gratitude is usually by resolving the problems. They have raised this concern on a number of occasions yet they continue to be informed that their consumers are lodging complaints about current practice which it is indeed difficult to accept. This is because transfers do not only generate a high cost at their point of origin. They also do so at their destination, inasmuch as banks make unjustified charges when the transfer is initiated and the recipient bank makes unjustified charges at the same rate on receipt of the money. Current practice does not therefore seem to be in line with the aims of the single currency, due to enter into circulation on 1 January 2002. What specific negotiating action could the Commission undertake in this connection, to give some satisfaction to consumers? – Mr President, last week this debate was dominated by some unfortunate news for cohesion. In committee we saw the discharge of the 2000 budget, with an execution of 56% of objective 1, 4.5% of objective 2 and 0% of Community initiatives. We are not talking about the cohesion funds. The Commissioner, as he told us, wrote a letter to the Presidents of the various countries, reminding them of the ‘n+2’ rule, that is, that funds may disappear after two years of not being executed. That is by way of a precaution, amongst other things, and I think it is correct. The Commission proposed 0.14% of the budget to solve the problems of enlargement. In any event, I am very pleased with the report by Mr Musotto, in which he makes an enormously positive assessment of regional policy and cohesion policy. It is a successful policy which is going to ensure that soon there will be almost no Objective 1 regions amongst the Europe of the 15. The messages of Mr Musotto’s project are clear: procedures must be taken seriously. I am pleased that the Commissioner has maintained what Parliament proposed: that the programming period be brought forward two years to the next financial perspectives. He also sends a message relating to the quality of investments and participation, and the implementation of the partnership, which has not yet happened. But the star has been enlargement: enlargement itself, the effect of enlargement on the other regions that currently receive aid and the absence of a reply to the four questions, Commissioner. An apparent absence of a reply, since you can give us a satisfactory reply through good work, which is easy if done with common sense and if we believe in cohesion. Mr President, I will end by saying to the Commissioner that Parliament trusts that the Commission will obtain that response which we all need. –  Mr President, I intervene in the same sense as my colleague to stress that in the draft resolution in the Blak report – and of course I am intervening after checking with the rapporteur – I want to state for the record first that it is the English version that is authentic. Secondly, in conclusion number 8(ii), under the title Flax, there should be a language correction not only in the Spanish but also in most other languages: where in English it says ‘competent authorities’ it should be translated in Spanish as ‘’, and the same in all the other languages. . – Mr President, Commissioner, the White Paper on Transport is dated 12 September 2001 and it may appear that we have spent too much time analysing this important report sent to us by the Commission. However, I must say that we have made good use of this time, thorough use I believe, to debate and bring together positions between the different groups in the House. At the moment these approximations are still taking place, and I would urge that we reach a thorough consensus for the vote tomorrow. We have used this time to inform the sectors and allow them to participate. I am sure that the Commission has held many contacts with all the sectors before producing the White Paper, but I must say that Parliament has not been left behind and that practically all the European associations representing the different modes of transport have been heard by Parliament and that many of their proposals have been incorporated into the approach we have been working on. This approach is characterised by a fundamental fact: Commissioner, in this case Parliament is not opposing the Commission. On the contrary, it is demonstrating willingness and carrying out a positive analysis of the Commission’s proposal, of the proposals in the White Paper, and we believe that the enormous majority of its offers and analysis can be perfectly endorsed by this Parliament. W are continuing this reflection, however, and providing certain constructive criticisms and specific proposals which should be analysed by the Commission as appropriate. This is a crucial and decisive time for transport. It is true that in 1992, in the last White Paper on Transport, certain objectives were set which have been fulfilled practically in their entirety. We could say that the liberalisation of transport was the strategic and fundamental objective of that White Paper: the incorporation of technologies, the reduction in transport costs, the increase in competitiveness, objective achieved, but in this war, we have lost the battle of sustainability, and I am glad that the Commission is the first to clearly acknowledge the seriousness of this problem, and the fact that we cannot afford to delay decision making if we want to be operative. The problem of sustainability in the broad sense, environmental, naturally, with the grave consequences of the pollution created by transport, which cancel out the savings made in the rest of industry with a view to fulfilling the Kyoto commitments, and with the impact, not only on nature generally, but on the health of the citizens who, according to certain reports, reaches levels practically as serious as transport accident levels. As well as the actual environmental aspect, congestion is worrying. We used to have a functional operative transport system which was competitive, but now the main routes are seizing up, cities are becoming grid-locked, kilometres of rail and road, approaches to airports, are showing themselves to be structurally weak in terms of competitiveness. And therefore competitiveness is being seriously harmed. This is not the time to give figures, I refuse to do that, we do not have time, but I must say that we are also moving in that direction. Charging is a rough diamond in the White Paper which we must be able to cut from now on and which is essential. We must promote modes of transport which are respectful of the environment, create synergy between the different modes of transport by means of intermodality and the logistical platforms necessary for creating transport as efficiently as possible. The essential role of roads must be respected and valued, the railways must be liberalised, short- and medium-distance cabotage must be strengthened, etc. Safety cannot be conditional. There is a proposal from Parliament on the creation of the European safety agency for roads – the only one missing from the White Paper on Transport – and I hope that it is received well, as well as other problems relating to safety at sea, on the railways, etc. Commissioner, the time has come for us to say very clearly that the European Union’s transport policy cannot work without a consistent budgetary policy, and hence Parliament’s proposal on the European transport fund that we need and on the financial instrument for transport. It is true that European asymmetry is not properly considered in the White Paper, that urban issues have not been dealt with since they are considered subsidiary and not to be subject to the Commission’s proposal, that public transport is not yet properly dealt with – and we are asking the Commission for complementary documents – that enlargement is not really taken into account in the White Paper, but if Europe wants to participate in the process of globalisation and not wait for others to implement it and, if it wants to be as viable as possible, it must have better transport. You have cooperated in the White Paper in this respect and Parliament wishes to follow. – Mr President, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Costa, but I would like to point out that he deserves congratulations not for his psychological capacity to unite wills, but for having included certain factors in the report which allow us all to be united. I would like to highlight two of these factors, the ones which lead me to support the rest of his proposals. The first is that the report, “stresses that such methodology needs a gradual and step-wise implementation based on transparency and sufficient information.” The second factor which leads me to approve this report is the subsidiarity issue, because, undoubtedly, Mr Costa’s report makes it absolutely clear – he has said this with complete transparency – that there is going to be an increase in the cost for users, as the cost of funding by the States is going to be passed on to users. We cannot ignore that fact. We therefore need this gradual implementation, which seems to me to be absolutely essential because, when we speak of tariffs in relation to internal and external costs, in the fullest sense of the word, which is currently difficult to define, we are talking about an increase in cost for the user. Therefore, in fact, we are talking about favouring rail transport. I believe that this is one of the bases which justify the imposition of tariffs. The fact is that road transport – automobiles – have a clear and very serious environmental impact, so much so that they alone are replacing, and therefore increasing, what all the other industrial sectors are saving in terms of greenhouse gases. The time has therefore come to tame the automobile. Nobody wants to be deprived of an automobile, but we must tame it. On the one hand, by means of research, aimed at reducing consumption. On the other hand, however, we must also influence drivers. It is clear that these tariffs are going to produce an increase in the cost to users so that they might consider the possibility of using public transport and the possibility of making more rational use of the railways – both for goods and for passenger transport. I believe that this is the key factor, which truly justifies the Commission and Mr Costa’s proposed imposition of tariffs. That is why we are going to support him but, of course, this gradual implementation seems to me to be fundamental to the consumer being able to accept and take this process on board. – Mr President, with regard to the various initiatives which we are analysing this afternoon, I would like to concentrate strictly on one of them, that is, the URBAN programme. It is a fact that we are debating this programme today because the European Parliament insisted that this initiative should be maintained. The Commission proposed removing it and other initiatives, but Parliament’s proposal and the sensitivity of the Commission itself at the time led to the URBAN initiative being retained. I believe that we should be pleased about this. But what were the Commission’s arguments, from Commissioner Monika Wulf-Mathies and Director-General Eneko Landaburu in particular, for eliminating the URBAN programme? Its argument was one of priority. The urban question is so important that we cannot tighten our belts and undervalue it with a programme which has such a small budget. Today the programme is in place and therefore I believe we have achieved something important, that distinguishing mark of the European Union called the URBAN programme. However, I would like to address Commissioner Barnier and support the argument of Commissioner Wulf-Mathies and the Director-General, because I think they were absolutely right. The urban dimension must be incorporated much more deeply in all the structural funds. The amount of budget required by our cities – where 80% of the European population live and which increasingly represent both the best and the worst of what we have in Europe, I believe, clearly indicates that the European dimension should be taken into account and that this URBAN programme should not be used as an excuse not to analyse in detail, not to prioritise and, therefore, not to introduce an infinitely greater budgetary contribution into programmes which affect the cities, by means of European funds. Therefore, I do not believe I need to restate the number of factors which demand this investment in urban areas, factors which are on the agenda, and I would like to say to the Commissioner that we hope he will be sensitive in this respect. – Mr President, I would simply like to point out that, once again, groups in this Parliament and Members, specifically of the Spanish Popular Party, are manipulating Question Time and supplementary questions to the Commission. It is truly incredible that this behaviour should reoccur and that every time there is a question from a Member, especially a Socialist, the Popular Party uses Question Time to hide the shame of its government and does not ask the corresponding Commissioner a question. This should cease to happen in this Parliament and I would ask that the Presidency, when Members from the Popular Party are seen to behave in this manner, not to wait until the end of the intervention. – Mr President, Commissioner, the merit of providing information quickly is to achieve an effect of surprise when giving good news. And I must congratulate you on the news you have brought us today, which was directly related to my first budgetary question, which I now have to adapt. However, I would like to stress the importance I attach to moving from 10% to 20% in the projects. My question is, ‘how have you done it?’. Because this action is of interest to us in terms of future actions and requests by this Parliament. So where did you get that 10% from? Can the same be expected for other modes of transport? Secondly, the environmental impact. When you appeared before us in 1999, at your hearing as a candidate for Commissioner, you said that you would pay very close attention to the environmental impact. Do you intend to maintain this level of attention in relation to these projects and not be mechanically subject to the will of the States, which normally incorporate truly harmful environmental effects into some of these areas? Thirdly, we have still not been able to digest the projects which you have just mentioned to us, but I would like to ask you a question with no ill intention, but simply so that we may know your initial opinion: do you think that your proposal tackles the problems of the peripheral regions and is therefore of a cohesive nature? – Mr President, I would like to make a short personal statement in relation to the Commissioner’s comment, which I think was inappropriate and particularly unworthy of a Commissioner who normally deals with Parliament and each of its Members in an excellent way. Perhaps there has been a misunderstanding. All I have done, Commissioner, is ask you the same question that you asked Parliament. You cannot therefore tell me that I am being impatient. In January, in the second report on cohesion, you asked Parliament which of the four criteria it thought we should adopt. Parliament asks the same of the Council and the Commission. Secondly, Commissioner, we have enlargement to deal with. We are talking about another time and another era. I would like you to know, therefore, that all my comments have been made in a constructive spirit, not only today, but for many years, while fighting for cohesion in this Parliament. –  Mr President, I intervene to support the report by Mrs Sanders-ten Holte. We enjoyed a highly fruitful collaboration within our parliamentary committee. The amendments presented to the House were approved unanimously and incorporated suggestions from other Groups, and right from the beginning I could see that when Mrs Sanders-ten Holte was faced with a Member arguing about legal uncertainties it was clear to her that we should press on and avoid delaying tactics, because above all we had to consider passengers’ interests. Parliament has pressed on without delays, and we are attempting to give shape to our part in the Montreal Convention, which generates a number of positive features for passengers and therefore deserves the support of the European Union. We must highlight the greater number of participating countries and the new possibilities on offer, the increase in the compensation payable in the various situations considered in the Convention, the significant introduction of matters relating to baggage and delays and the provision of information for passengers. We think that providing passengers with information is fundamental. It is fundamental, and perhaps it is not covered in Mrs Sanders-ten Holte’s report in as much depth as we would like, because we would like companies to reply specifically and immediately to consumers’ complaints, but it is undoubtedly a step in the right direction and it will have our support. The recommendation it makes on the amendments will also gain our acceptance on all points, and in this way our collaboration will go right to the end. We will support all the amendments Mrs Sanders-ten Holte has proposed and we will oppose Amendments Nos 19 and 20. We therefore consider that this work is a parliamentary job well done which will result in benefits for the citizens. If, one day, citizens are compensated by airlines for their delays, we will have gained a lot of credibility. – Mr President, I am also one of those who have an enormously positive view of the building. I believe that we have a historic building and that we must be the first to respect it and to project a positive image of it. And to the symbolic nature of our building, we should add its functionality. We should recognise, Mr President, that this building has a significant structural defect. In comparison with the building in Brussels the Members have much smaller offices, not in view of their smaller area in terms of square metres, but in view of the fact that Members have to share all their activities with an assistant. Anybody who appreciates the political activity of a Member, and the confidential nature of many of their conversations and activities, will understand that this is possibly the most serious structural defect and, as the President has pointed out, there is possibly no solution to it. Anyway, I think that we should continue to work towards trying to find a way for there to be a degree of independence between the Member and the assistant, given that our work requires this independence, with regard to conversations, the issues to be dealt with and also in other areas which are beside the point. And finally, Mr President, I would like to make another observation – and I understand that this is not an easy issue to resolve – with regard to any possible improvements to the access to this building from the city. There have been times – such as this week’s part-session, which has coincided with the fair – when there has been considerable disruption as far as access to the Parliament is concerned. This will happen again and I believe that analysing possible improvements to this access – at least during parliamentary weeks – would be a positive step. –  Mr President, in addition to congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Adam, on his magnificent report, I would like to tell the Commission that some of the terminology in their proposal needs to be amended in order to take account of gender differences. That is to say, that it constantly forgets that there are female producers and stockbreeders. I would ask the Commissioner to make these terminological amendments to this proposal and, Commissioner, you can also do this for all of your other proposals, and please inform your staff that this must be done. Behind this seemingly formal request is my firm determination that, from now on, we recognise female farmers for the important role they play. Secondly, Commissioner, your proposal contains a renationalisation, which is the cause of a great deal of suspicion, because, to a certain extent, it sets a precedent in this field. To avoid these suspicions escalating into protests, you should compensate for this shortcoming in your proposal by increasing premiums. We ask for this unanimously; I hope that Parliament’s proposals will not fall on deaf ears. Lastly, I have to say that we all recognise that this ‘safety net’ initiative to compensate the fall in income suffered by farmers and producers of both sexes in times of crisis is a great success. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I often take part in this Question Time and I find it shameful that recently this has become a routine excuse: the representative of the Council informs us in advance that they must leave the Chamber urgently. Since it has become routine, this sounds – it shames me to say it – a little like a kind of subterfuge by know-alls. I therefore support the proposed agenda of the Conference of Presidents, which sets the length of Question Time in accordance with our Rules of Procedure: an hour and a half. I am going to put my supplementary question, since I have the right to do so, which relates to Question No 17, relating to an enormous tragedy. My supplementary question... Mr President, I should like to ask the Commissioner to clarify what he just said. Commissioner, you stated that the Commission is proposing certain measures and alternative employment opportunities in the context of rural development. That at least is what I understood you to have said. May I therefore enquire, Commissioner, whether you could provide tobacco farmers with assurances on alternative employment? Are you in fact guaranteeing jobs? I would be grateful for clarification. Mr President, the common agricultural policy is beginning the greatest transformation of its entire history; it would therefore be a serious mistake to keep research within parameters which have become obsolete. We must therefore change the approach we have taken so far to agricultural research. This is precisely the challenge faced by Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf in this European Parliament initiative report. He deals with it very sensibly in a report which I believe to be excellent. He essentially proposes that the Sixth and Seventh Framework Programme for Research should change in accordance with this new situation. The Commissioner has told us that the Sixth programme is being applied – and the report says this – but nevertheless I believe that we do have time for the Commissioner to introduce certain modifications relating to the role of women in rural development, as it appears he is going to do. It is also very important that the drawing up of this Seventh Framework Programme for Research should reflect this approach, which considers research into sustainable agriculture and rural development. Paragraph 2 is fundamental, proposing that at least half of the budget for food technology and agricultural research be dedicated to sustainable and practical research into the various farming systems, and I would therefore be grateful if the Commission could also provide for this allocation of at least half of the budget for this purpose. The report supports research intended to improve the quality and safety of foods from farm to table and stresses the importance of small-scale farming and of small- and medium-sized retailers. In this way a totally innovative potential is established, because we must remember that, until now, this small-scale agriculture had been completely forgotten. Small- and medium-sized retailers had also been forgotten in the intensive agriculture of the past and the immediate future. All of this had been relegated within research and is quite rightly what the rapporteur now advocates as a profound change, an approach which reconsiders agricultural research from top to bottom, as is necessary, in other words, reorienting research towards the service of agriculture in harmony with nature. For all of these reasons, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again and ask the Commissioner to change this approach as soon as possible and allocate the funds requested today by the European Parliament. – Mr Commissioner, your reply is insufficient and very short. Please be more specific and more precise and tell me what you feel about the killing of Algerian Berbers resulting from the police charge at the end of April in Algeria. What effect will this killing of Algerian Berbers have on relations between the European Union and Algeria, on relations between the Commission and Algeria? –  Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I appreciate your reply but it does not go far enough. Will you recommend the adoption of effective emergency measures to combat the current situation: the scourge of hunger, the scourge of cold and the scourge of diseases? I can put it as brutally as today’s media: 120 children die of cold, barefoot, in temperatures fifteen degrees below zero; over 10 million, almost 11 million women survive without a right to health care, without a right to education, without a right to work, in subhuman conditions. We need something more than understanding, as you must realise. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will you not recommend that some emergency measure should be adopted? How many more children will have to die of cold? How many million women will have to live without rights or freedoms? – Mr President, the greatest problem I have with the text on which we are going to vote tomorrow – I have just acquired a copy – lies in article 3 of the Commission proposal, according to which we would ban these substances in the European Union. I ask the Commission to listen because I am going to ask for clarification; according to this article we would vote for a ban on these substances within the European Union, but this ban would not affect their manufacture or marketing within the European Union, since we could send them to another Member State with a view to their export to third countries. Mr President, this is not acceptable to me, since if we ban these substances and their marketing within the European Union, as the agreement says, it would not be legal to be able to send them, within the European Union, to another Member State. Nor would it be legal, as we are currently doing, to produce them in a Member State. Therefore, I would ask you to clarify whether this is the case because, according to this text and according to the Commission, this ban would not affect marketing or exporting to third countries. Mr President, I believe that this would be extremely hypocritical. What we do not want for ourselves, we allow for others when it is a question of earning money. I believe that everything has its limit, and if we have principles for ourselves, we must hold the same principles with regard to non-EU countries; and, of course, within the European Union, we cannot produce, manufacture or market these substances. –  Mr President, I would like to explain that I tabled a question on the war in Iraq for Question Time to the Council. The question concerned the victims of that war. I have however been informed that my question had not been accepted because it was deemed to be the type of question requiring a statistical answer. I should like to make it quite clear that my question does not involve statistics. It has nothing whatsoever to do with statistics. The question simply concerns the fate of victims of the recent war in Iraq. This is surely a matter of parliamentary and political interest. A bureaucratic criterion was applied inappropriately. I can show statistics are not at issue in any way, and I therefore request this decision be reversed before Wednesday afternoon. I also call for an investigation into why this criterion was applied. I believe it was by way of an excuse rather than in pursuance of the Rules of Procedure. – I am very grateful to Commissioner Vitorino for his very encouraging reply and I hope to see that list of specific items which he has said we will have before long. However, I would like to ask the Commissioner whether the Commission has realised that there will have to be complementarity between the INTERREG and MEDA programmes so that the associated country – in this case Morocco – may have the financial means necessary for cooperation. I would ask the Commissioner to deal with this issue, so that it may be possible to promote complementarity between the INTERREG programme and the MEDA programme, because otherwise, Morocco will not have the financial means intended for cooperation. This is done with the CCEE countries and it will be necessary to do the same with this new form of cross-border cooperation. – Thank you very much, Commissioner, for that very positive and illuminating reply, at a time when there is great uncertainty in the countryside. However, given the importance of the issue, I believe more information should be provided. So my supplementary question is: does the Commission plan to provide the farmers with direct information and guidance on the advantages and improvements represented by the reform you are proposing? I say this with knowledge of the facts, because in my country there are many parodies in which farmers are constantly being told that decoupling means that the less they work, the more they earn and that they will earn more the more they ‘scratch their bellies’, to employ the terminology actually used. Therefore, Commissioner, if we want the farmers to understand your proposals, bearing in mind that the Spanish Minister for Agriculture’s strategy is head-on opposition, I believe you should consider this question and that the Commission must propose measures to provide direct information, because what we have in Spain at the moment are ridiculous parodies. – Mr President, on the basis of the assessment and the application of Regulation (EC) No 1221/97, two clear conclusions should be drawn: firstly, that it is necessary to increase the amount of aid in each of the lines and the percentage of subsidy; secondly, that we must prevent, as was the case in the period 1998-2000, inequalities between sectors. With regard to the corrections which should be introduced, we must achieve a reasonable balance in the cost-benefit for each of the action lines and a profound modification which transforms the current degree of co-funding, so that funding is entirely covered by the EAGGF Guarantee. With regard to future needs, we should make two recommendations. Firstly, we must establish a direct aid system which compensates for the loss of income suffered by European professional beekeepers. Furthermore, we should create a COM for honey. Secondly, we must recognise the importance of the role played by professional beekeepers by maintaining their status in the face of large bee-keeping operations, since they thereby allow the existence of a fully sustainable stock-breeding activity, which favours rural development and which, furthermore, produces healthy and high-quality products, and which is socially very beneficial, given its important contribution to environmental quality and its active role in conserving bio-diversity by means of the pollination carried out by bees. I will end by saying, Mr President, that this task of pollination, which is safeguarded by beekeepers, must be compensated for through a line for specific aid which supplements the current Regulation. I congratulate Mrs Lulling on her magnificent work. – Mr President, it is unacceptable that the President-in-Office of the Council is giving such emphatic, cautious, evasive, mean and insipid replies as this one. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there are silences that speak volumes, which make themselves heard, and the complicity of which is horrifying. This is shameful for an institution such as the Council of Ministers. The European Union keeps meticulous accounts of molluscs and fish, chicks, poultry, cattle or goats; it bureaucratically identifies animals and vegetables of every type of species, which it analyses exhaustively; it analyses the chassis of motors, industrial parts and tools, the remoulding of tyres ... it is unacceptable that it cannot count the victims of a war of hardly three weeks ago. Bearing in mind that we are talking about a war which violated international law and did not enjoy the multilateral support of the United Nations, I would ask you – and please reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council – do you condemn the violation of the right to life which has been suffered by the victims of this illegal war? , . –  Mr President, we should like to table a compromise amendment. We want to know whether the GUE/NGL Group would accept the addition of the words “” at the end of their Amendment No 29, so that the amendment would read thus: “Urges the Commission and Council, when applying penalties based on the human rights clauses in association and other agreements, to take account of violations of women’s rights, including those inspired by fundamentalism.” This is a compromise amendment that would remain as an addition. Furthermore, Mr President, may I say that, if linguistic issues arise, I should like the Spanish version to be taken as authentic. . – Mr President, I am presenting a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the proposal for a Council regulation with regard to information measures relating to the common agricultural policy. This report sets a precedent, as it is the first time that the Council has consulted Parliament on these measures. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has studied this legislative motion for a resolution extremely promptly and with great interest, and has approved it unanimously. I would like to highlight the following aspects of the amendments proposed by Parliament: First, in Amendment No 2, rural information and activity centres are included as possible agents for these measures. Secondly, the amendment refers specifically to the important role to be played by young farmers in the aforementioned measures. Thirdly, we indicate to the Commission the value of simplification and cutting through red tape, both in the examination of the programmes submitted and in subsequent monitoring. Fourthly, we single out countrymen and women, farmers and other parties active in rural areas as the ideal beneficiaries of these measures. On examination of our amendments, it is clear that they have a human aspect and allow a far more dynamic, open discussion. They avoid dealing with the CAP in a passive, purely bureaucratic and technological fashion. That is why we believe that Parliament's amendments improve the text. Fifthly, with regard to the cofinancing percentage, Parliament would like the Commission to be able to increase this percentage, increasing financing for organisations or associations with few financial means. Sixthly, we already know that, according to the proposal, commitment appropriations provide EUR 4.5 million annually through the EAGGF, which implies EUR 27 million for the current period, 2000-2006. However, the proposal made by Parliament indicates that the European Commission should adapt the budgetary allocation to the large number of organisations entitled to participate under this regulation. Finally, Mr President, I would like to highlight the contribution of Amendment No 10, which proposes a new Article 5a, defining the following criteria to be met by programmes or measures eligible for funding: that these programmes should foster sustainable, multifunctional farming; they should serve to maintain or create jobs; they should promote social and regional cohesion; they should give a more prominent role to women and young people; they should protect the environment and safeguard the water supply, air quality and soil quality; they should treat agricultural waste and control energy expenditure, in the countryside and in transport. In our opinion, these are proposals that should promote rural development and improve food safety and product quality. The European Parliament would like the Commission to make these priorities, which are priority objectives for agriculture in 2000, easier to visualise in these next information measures. Mr President, that is all I have to say. I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for the support and collaboration they have given me at all the meetings we have held. I would also like the European Commission, in one way or another, to take account of Parliament's criteria. –  Mr President, I should to express my thanks to the President of the Council for the precision with which he answered my question. I should like to ask the supplementary question of whether you consider that the violation of the human rights of women that the Saudi government systematically carries out deserves to be condemned. –  Mr President, I would like to ask for an explanation as to whether, when the amendments are merged, the word "commitment" should be kept in the text as set out in the Socialist amendment. In other words, it would be "a commitment" to do this. I think the implication is that this is the case, that the word "commitment" should also appear in the merged text. – Mr President, this proposal relates to an extremely delicate area. We simply have to note that, basically, the system of inward processing breaks with the principle of European preference or, if you like, the system of Community preferences. This is a very delicate area and, furthermore, the system of inward processing, in its application, is extremely complex and slow and therefore harms numerous small- and medium-sized businesses. In this delicate area, our decisions, as politicians, should be directed towards maintaining the competitiveness of the European food industry in the world and towards strengthening the close links between the processing industry and the producers of raw materials. The greatest responsibility in this area falls to the Commission. We require a creative and flexible Commission, capable of judging changes in the markets, measured and, at the same time, imaginative. We need a Commission which gives priority to the European farm model and the defence of small farmers, but the truth is that so far all the Commission has demonstrated in this area has been its opacity, its discretionary approach to legislation and very little else. As for the European Parliament, Mr President, both the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and its chairman, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, have worked seriously and prudently on this difficult report. Mr Souchet has produced a wonderful report, and I congratulate him on his work as rapporteur. He has been correct, specifically in his proposals to limit and rationalise the use of the system of inward processing by adapting it to the situation of the markets, the regulatory framework and the budgetary framework. All of this is correct, as well as his demands for exemptions in favour of small exporters. Many thanks, therefore, to the rapporteur and the European Parliament, and I hope that the Commission will improve its work in this area. – Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, thank you very much for your reply. The serious problem we have is that all that European Union aid, those many millions of euros, is being channelled by means of Pakistan. Pakistan is the only country – together with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates – which has been supporting the Taliban regime. It is a mistake to give the key to, and the administration of, the humanitarian aid to Pakistan. However, that is what is happening, and this political error is the reason why the aid is not reaching all the Afghan beneficiaries who should be receiving it. Madam President, now that Kabul has been taken, could you please change this so that European Union humanitarian aid is not channelled via Pakistan, as has been the case up to now. Let us not give the key and the administration to Pakistan, but let us do it directly so that it reaches the people of Afghanistan. – Mr President, the Commission’s proposal has its basis in Article 251 of the Treaty and therefore, Mr President, it is subject to the codecision procedure. It relates to the economic accounts for agriculture and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, for which I am rapporteur, has been responsible for the main report. Mr President, Eurostat has been publishing these accounts since 1964, producing them on the basis of a common methodology and sharing competence with the Member States. After 39 years of existence during which the economic accounts for agriculture have shown themselves to be an indispensable instrument for controlling and evaluating the common agricultural policy, the Commission believes that the time has come to formalise them and to provide them with a sufficient legal basis. The Commission justifies this need through the risk of their possible deterioration as a result of budgetary restrictions and the need to use these accounts in view of the coming enlargement. I agree with all of this, Commissioner, and I have no objections, as I have stated in previous debates. The issue which causes me some problems at the moment, and which my amendments deal with, relate more to the agricultural aspect of the issue and specifically to the current reform of the common agricultural policy. This reform, as you well know, implies a substantial change, a fundamental change of orientation, a change which is not just terminological, but which is fundamental. The accounts for agriculture are a basic tool for analysing the economic situation of agriculture. Precisely for this reason – because we use them for the control and evaluation of the CAP, because they are a basic tool – they must be faithful to the reality of the agriculture they are reflecting. That is because if the instrument we use is not the right one, the accounts would end up being fictitious or suffering because they lack the transparency they require. Therefore, Commissioner, I believe that once the reform of the CAP is to be implemented, it will be necessary to progressively adapt and update the economic accounts for agriculture, in order to introduce the new values and fundamental elements of the new CAP, so that the economic accounts for agriculture do not become obsolete and inaccurate within a few months. If this is not possible immediately, I would suggest, Commissioner, that you consider what I have said, so that it may be carried out progressively and as soon as possible. –  Mr President, I have attended Question Time in this Parliament on many occasions and my personal view is that, when compared with others, Mr de Miguel is guilty of parliamentary filibustering, because he speaks very slowly, but more than anything, he also reads very slowly, which is even more astounding. I understand the Spanish language very well, and I see this approach as a kind of parliamentary nit-picking, designed to all but bring the debate to a halt. I believe that if we were to carry out a comparative phonetic, phonological and time study, we would see that there have been Presidents-in-Office of the Council whose participation in these debates has been magnificent, and who have devoted a great deal of time to their explanations, but unfortunately, this is not the case here. I believe there to be a certain amount of political filibustering at play here, in deliberately slowing things down, so there is not enough time to answer all the questions. For this reason I would ask the Presidency to study this issue to see if it would be appropriate to give Mr de Miguel some advice on this matter. . –  Mr President, this proposal concerns fruits in shells or pods: that is, nuts and locust beans. We are therefore dealing with walnuts, hazelnuts, almonds, pistachios and chestnuts. These products are generally found alongside other fruits on the table and in supermarkets. However, when it comes to decision making, they are not treated fairly and reasonably in relation to other fruits and vegetables. Through this proposal, the European Parliament is being consistent with itself. On two previous occasions, 16 June 2000 and 26 October 2000, Parliament already came out in favour of maintaining support and proposing an extension until the introduction of a new aid system. On both these occasions the vote was carried by unanimity. Furthermore, in my view, Mr President, this aid is justified because it benefits the agricultural workers who need it as it helps to compensate for a reduction in their income. I do believe that granting over-generous aid in favourable market situations should be avoided. Cereals are a case in point. Both the Commission and the Court of Auditors have stressed that undue compensation was awarded. In fact, in the period between 1993 and 1997, the Commission estimates that excess compensation worth EUR 8 500 million was granted to the cereal sector. The Court of Auditors puts the figure for excess compensation awarded at EUR 13 100 million. I am not in favour of granting aid as if it were a lottery. The aid we are proposing now really is necessary. In addition, this proposal is in line with the provisions in Agenda 2000. When the latter was adopted Commissioner Fischler himself stated repeatedly that the intention was to maintain all aid. The Council agreed with the European Parliament’s position. Hence, on 17 July 2000, it invited the Commission to extend the aid. The Commission’s proposal is on the right lines, because it redresses the earlier error of attempting to cut off aid. It is right to do so. However, that alone is not enough to ensure a future for the sector. It does not even cover the cost of projects under way this year. The budget has to be ready in June, and programmes relating to plantations in the first part of this year would not be included. There is an obvious shortage of these products within the European Union. Walnuts are imported from the United States. I have to tell you, Commissioner, that last Christmas, , a major department store in my country, strongly promoted Californian walnuts, but walnuts from Extremadura and other European walnuts were sidelined. We import products of this nature to the detriment of the agricultural workers I am speaking for. Commissioner, you ought to be taking note of what I am saying because this constitutes a precedent. We are in favour of opening up markets and coming to multilateral agreements and to bilateral agreements, with Turkey for instance. We are happy to show solidarity. Nevertheless, the Commission cannot condone European agriculture abandoning these crops as a result of commercial agreements which have caused the collapse of such an important sector. Will the Commission allow European aid to the agricultural sector to be cut off? And does this mean that European agriculture will no longer receive preferential treatment? Mr President, I speak for a sector which diversifies agriculture and which truly has great potential for economic development. Mr Fischler is not well acquainted with the Mediterranean area. He ought however to make it his business to become acquainted with the benefits of this sector. It is important for the processing industry, has a most favourable impact on the environment and arrests desertification. Commissioner, I call on you to amend your position and come into line with the spirit of the Council’s agreement. – Commissioner, are you aware of, and do you agree with, the fact that in Spain the  is the new authority responsible for ensuring food safety for European citizens, that it is responsible for ensuring food safety with regard to BSE? Are you aware that the  does not reveal the identity of some of those arrested for meat meal fraud? Do you agree with this? Are you aware that this afternoon Mr Fischler said to us in this House that it is not necessary to sacrifice all the animals on a farm where only one case has been declared? And are you aware that the Spanish Minister for Agriculture – they do not allow the Minister for Health to talk – is saying that we absolutely have to slaughter all the animals? Is this not a contradiction? Are you aware that what citizens are receiving is this contradictory and chaotic information? What do you say about the issue of the ? Answer me please. –  Mr President, I would like to tell you that I would be interested to know the figure whenever the President-in-Office of the Council can provide it, in other words, how many female agricultural workers are expected on the first wave of accession. Otherwise, we cannot carry out any advance planning. For any action to take place, if we are to gear it towards female agricultural workers, we have to know how many there will be. At the moment this is not possible, but I would be grateful if you could send me the figure. With regard to the second question, I would also appreciate a response on whether or not a campaign will be carried out. – Mr President, Mr Prodi, I would like to speak about two basic conditions for improving food safety. Firstly, the European inspectorate must be able to inspect whenever it deems it necessary. The current situation in which a Member State, in the case of fraud, can hold the key which locks the European inspectorate, cannot be allowed to continue. This legislation must be amended. Secondly, we must fight fraud relentlessly, and to this end it is necessary that some sectors, which have paid an unfair price for this dioxin crisis, are compensated by means of market measures. It is essential that fraud is never rewarded in any way, through direct or indirect measures. Food fraud has been committed and, therefore, the Commission must ensure that it does not, through any measure, for the first time, reward fraud. Finally, I would like to point out that during the dioxin crisis, there has been a degree of genuine dishonesty between the Member States. We must ensure that there is Community honesty with regard to information policy. Perhaps this lack of honesty with regard to information is due to the fact that we were in an election period, but I must point out that there was a real war of accusations between certain Member States. This is very serious and we require measures which will safeguard this Community trust between the different Member States. –  Mr President, the Council must know how many female agricultural workers are going to join the Union. –  Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your office informed me today that during this debate I would receive a satisfactory response to my request concerning the disloyalty to Europe shown by Mr Aznar in relation to the war in Iraq. Would you not agree that the disloyalty shown by Mr Aznar is reprehensible? There is abundant proof that Mr Aznar worked actively against the letter of the Council agreement of 17 February. Clearly, he acted disloyally with regard to the common position he was bound by. He acted disloyally in supporting a unilateral, immoral and illegal attack. What can the European loyalty and mutual solidarity we committed ourselves to in the Treaties mean to Mr Aznar? Where was his loyal cooperation? Do you not agree that such disloyalty is reprehensible? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we should not hush up or ignore the growing disloyalty of Mr Aznar. Over 90% of the people of Spain condemn the disloyalty shown by their Prime Minister. They feel profoundly European and call for the principles of loyalty and solidarity to be defended. After all, these principles are key to our progress in future. – Mr President, Saudi Arabia has no credibility and offers no guarantees in terms of defending Afghan women. Saudi Arabia is one of just three countries which officially supported the Taliban regime. It has been promoting and financially aiding Islamic fundamentalism and it seriously violates the human rights of women. Mr President, given Saudi Arabia’s anti-women pedigree, is it coherent that at the meeting in Washington on 20 November, that country should be named as part of the group that will lead the reconstruction of Afghanistan? Mr President, Afghanistan is now entering a hopeful stage and they must begin to change the harsh living conditions for women. We need a plan containing urgent measures in order that Afghanistan may embark on reconstruction and the road to peace and progress. The European Union must concern itself as directly as possible with imposing order in the distribution of humanitarian aid and establishing speedy measures and structures so that girls and women may receive education and healthcare. My final recommendation, Mr President, is that we remember those women’s organisations which resisted the Taliban – such as RAWA – and it is those organisations which must now play a decisive role so that women are fully involved in the reconstruction. Mr President, I would like to join in the general praise for Mr Garot’s wonderful report, which is as timely as it is necessary. Mr President, Mr Garot’s rigorous analysis provides data confirming our concern at the danger posed by the reform of the CAP if its negative impact on agricultural incomes is not neutralised. I very much regret the seriously misguided and inconsistent way in which certain Members, on the one hand, heap great praise on the report because it is good, but, on the other, say that they are not going to support it. Mr President, the fundamental objective of the CAP is to guarantee a fair standard of living for the agricultural population. Europe needs multifunctional and viable agriculture, but this means that we must protect the European model, create a system of crisis management, guarantee employment and increase the resources dedicated to the second pillar. All of this is proposed by Mr Garot in this wonderful report. Especially worthy of note are paragraph 7 – which the Commission should apply – which points out that the costs of production are tending to increase while aid is tending to decrease; paragraph 17, which relates to guaranteeing employment; and paragraphs 24 and 25 relating to the second pillar. Finally, Mr President, the Commission must take account of the view expressed by Mr Garot in paragraph 25 on cofinancing, as a demand which may hinder rural development, with a view to making this cofinancing requirement more flexible in the reform in the CAP. – Commissioner, I would like to ask a supplementary question which focuses on two aspects. Firstly, will women manage some of this economic aid? Secondly, since there are specific risks for women – just today a girl of seven has been sold into marriage by her family in order to deal with hunger and meet their needs – I would like to know whether the Commission intends to create specific funds to prevent this type of violation of women’s rights. Given the situation I have described, which will no doubt be repeated tomorrow and the next day, I would like a concrete reply from the Commission. It is also very important to know whether women will manage these funds. The fact that there are many armed men very much hinders progress in the improvement of the situation of women. – Mr President—in-Office of the Council, you have not really been very explicit, because all you are telling me is that proposals will be presented during the second half of 2003, but without being specific about them. I thank you very much for your reply anyway and I would like to know whether or not you believe that women’s issues should be progressively introduced into political dialogue. –  I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is in favour of women being treated as individuals, for the purposes of visas and asylum requests in the European Union, without having to be dependent on a husband or guardian. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are you in favour of our treating women asking for a visa or for asylum as people in their own right? I would appreciate an answer, one I hope will be yes. – Over recent years, Taliban fundamentalism has hit women, and today its effects are still ruining the lives of Afghan women. Men are still armed and this poses an obvious threat. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the day before yesterday a seven-year-old girl was sold into marriage in order for her family to deal with hunger and meet their needs. The President-in-Office of the Council has given me a very committed answer, which we already knew. To expand on it, and without returning to past questions, would the Spanish Presidency be prepared to adopt any measures to ensure that seven-year-old girls do not continue to be sold into marriage? Would you at least be willing to communicate the urgent need to adopt measures to prevent this horror? – Although I have signed this question, as an elected representative, I must say that I am not really its author. As the Commissioner can imagine, the question is posed by farmers, in the European countryside, who are wondering, at this stage, whether they, their income and their Community aid, will have to pay the price of enlargement. The Commissioner has not been explicit. However, his services, the Commission, and some of us MEPs, all know that there are studies and estimates covering this issue. The Commissioner is, at times, the master of side-stepping the question, with all the skill of a bullfighter, and failing to provide an answer. However, the Commission, if it wants the countryside to support its positions, must clear the fog, and be explicit. Therefore, I would ask the Commission, if it does not want to talk of its data and studies – which exist – at least to calm this real fear of the farmers and reply as to whether the cost of enlargement will be met at the expense of the farmers’ income and, furthermore, whether he can guarantee that it will not have an effect on Community aid. . – Mr President, I would firstly like to welcome the fact that this House has accepted the proposal to produce a report on this issue, ‘Women and fundamentalism’, thereby allowing us to confront this serious problem and to hold this debate and the subsequent vote despite the difficulties involved and the current pressures. On behalf of the hundreds of millions of human beings whose rights are denied or restricted as a result of fundamentalist pressure, I would like to thank the European Parliament. Today the European Union must defend the universality of human rights in a globalised world in which fundamentalists represent serious threats to freedoms, human rights and peace. This report offers useful proposals which will help to combat them. The first of them, Mr President, is that we must not allow religious fundamentalism to become a taboo subject, since problems are not solved by ignoring them or covering them up, but by being aware of them and confronting them. Secondly, fundamentalism cannot be combated by means of fundamentalism under another guise; the history of humanity is awash with disasters of that type. On the contrary, fundamentalism is reduced by promoting and exercising democratic freedoms, promoting the emancipation of women, pluralism and ideological and cultural diversity, the promotion of openness and the acceptance of differences and social and economic well-being. Mr President, one of the key elements which has proved to assist in the fight against fundamentalism is modernity, in a plural and multicultural sense. There can be no social modernity without human modernity. The desire to modernise a society while denying women democracy ends in failure; hence our condemnation of partial modernisation processes on the part of leaders of States which want only to modernise economic and technology aspects, while maintaining the basic principles of obsolete patriarchal societies in tact. Women are currently the main bringers of social modernity. However, Mr President, there is no single model for the emancipated woman. Women’s identity must be personal and individual, differing in terms of religion, tradition and culture. Stereotypes, dress, values, lifestyles and behaviour must be a question of personal free choice. Mr President, another of the key elements for preserving society from fundamentalism is secularisation or the separation of public affairs, which belong in the political sphere, from religious beliefs and convictions, which must be free and respected and which belong in the private individual sphere. The space occupied by religion in a social and political whole must involve a very broad range of possibilities. Mr President, the accusations being levelled against this report are unfair. It distinguishes and differentiates between fundamentalism and the normal practice of religion in a clear and respectful way, despite the fact that during the eras of certain religions in the past such a distinction has not existed. Mr President, we are facing a violation of human rights on an immense scale. Just in the case of women and at the present time, we can identify hundreds of the millions of people whose rights and freedoms are being restricted, violated and denied them. As a result of the time limits laid down in the Rules of Procedure, I have not been able to dwell on the death sentence by stoning imposed on Safiya Husseini, in Nigeria, nor on the Iranian women who are publicly flogged, nor those women, photographs of whose lynching I have seen, nor did I arrive in time to prevent the execution by stoning of Maryam Ayoubi last year. Despite the fact that the Iranian authorities had replied to the Commission that it had not stoned women for three years, the UN and Amnesty International have stated that that execution took place. Therefore, Mr President, I would like this report to be just a first step, followed by other specific parliamentary proposals, which will demonstrate, in each country and case by case, what a human life is worth in the European Union. – The Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities unanimously condemns the delay on the part of the Commission, which is even more serious given that it extends from 1992 to 2000, which is the period in which there have been the most changes in terms of women’s access to work. Furthermore, we believe that this deficiency in the legislation may be exacerbating a very serious phenomenon, that is, the rejection by young people of motherhood. We ask the Commission, before the end of 2000, to present an amendment of Directive 92/85/EEC and that that directive be applicable to all pregnant workers, in all areas and occupations, with no exceptions or conditions. The new legislation must be clear and progressive. It must provide for new working situations and also the new family situation of single parent families. The pregnant worker must be provided with adequate protection, which is designed for their specific circumstances, but this should not mean discrimination or a reduction in their work opportunities, but quite the opposite. We must be able to provide the means for breast-feeding to be compatible with work. Mr President, in today’s Europe there is no room for a divorce between women and employment, and much less a divorce between women and maternity. –  Mr President, I must confess that the President-in-Office of the Council was not very clear on this question. I have listened carefully to his words, which at times seemed contradictory insofar as Libya would be invited to participate, but does not appear to be contemplating a change in the situation. In any case, I would like to ask him the following supplementary question: is there a will to work towards a rapprochement? Are there any plans to improve mutual understanding between the European Union and Libya? If things go well, what agreements could be reached? Would these be the same agreements as with other North African countries within the context of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership? What would be the likely timetable for action? – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission for being receptive to my question. It seems incredible that today, in the year 2000, in a world which is globally interconnected, women are being sentenced to death for adultery. If Maryam did not live in a theocratic regime she would be free, she could enjoy the right to life, but as she lives in Iran, she will be stoned to death. The Spanish Prime Minister – Mr Aznar – is to make an official visit to that country in October. Perhaps he will shake hands with President Khatami. Commissioner, is it not inconsistent for us to form friendships and ties with regimes which violate human rights in this way, to the point of stoning its women to death? This is the thirteenth time under the Khatami regime. Is that not inconsistent? You know as well as I do that there are many ways of exerting political influence. What will the Commission do in this case? –  Mr President, I am very grateful to the President of the Council for such a positive and to some extent optimistic and encouraging answer. It must be remembered that the fisheries agreement with Morocco is much more than a simple fisheries agreement; as he knows, if this agreement were not reached, bearing in mind its significance, this fact might conceal a deterioration in the relations between the European Union and Morocco. I should like to ask him if in the coming weeks the French Presidency is going to push for this agreement to be concluded at last. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is essential that the French Presidency should push hard along this home straight because Commissioner Fischler lacks the Mediterranean imagination needed to be able to secure an agreement. He is less likely to succeed in something which is purely Mediterranean, than Pitres, a village up in the Alpujarra mountains in Granada, is in getting its own port, or even the expansion of its port. In view of this situation, my question is whether the French Presidency, which does have the will and the imagination, will make it possible for us to achieve a fisheries agreement, which is now vital after eleven months of having our fleet tied up. Andalusia and Galicia, Objective 1 regions, need it and there are many other Europeans working at sea and on land who need this to succeed. –  Mr President, with regard to the continued production of tobacco in Granada, I would like to know if the accession of Poland, a producer country, or trade with Zimbabwe, could lead to a reduction in the quantity of tobacco grown in the province of Granada. The first part of the Commissioner’s response, with regard to women, is highly unsatisfactory. I can provide you with the number of women working in the tobacco sector in Granada, but it is surprising that, when the level of cultivation in Europe is so high, you, as European Commissioner for this sector, do not know the number of women – which is what I was asking you – or the number of young farmers. In any case, I would ask you to answer my supplementary question, as it comes from the tobacco growers of Granada themselves, who are concerned because it is rumoured there that the accession of Poland and trade with Zimbabwe will be detrimental to them. It remains to be seen whether you can allay their fears. – Commissioner, the reform of the CAP should be carried out above all , in the countryside, and not just on paper. The people who will have to reform and convert their crops and their farming are the farmers, not just the bureaucrats. In the countryside there is great uncertainty and worry about the consequences of the reform at the moment. In less-favoured regions, there is much more. This is because, as you know, new commercial policies will be needed, and in less-favoured regions – objective 1 regions, apart from the terminological issue – new commercial measures, education and training for farmers are going to be needed. In this reform, however, you have not planned for anything like this for the regions in the worst situations. In Andalusia this will mean more than EUR 1 000 million. Throughout this summer there has been talk of a hard blow. Furthermore, your proposal is bureaucratically much more complex. In other words, rather than being simplified, the bureaucracy is increasing. From the point of view of social cohesion, moreover, this represents a retrograde step, especially when Mr Prodi commissions reports from his advisers which may be the final straw for social cohesion. You are not replying to my question, Commissioner. To what are you referring when you say that it is true that certain areas – the least-favoured – may be subject to reductions? What does this mean? A little more formality, and a lot more with those who are worst ... – Mr President, I would like the Commissioner to clarify whether a piece of information that I have is correct. It appears that this substance is manufactured in Austria, from there it goes to Holland and from Holland it is exported to non-EU countries. Commissioner, is it true that it is manufactured in Austria, from there goes to Holland and from Holland is exported? The Commissioner’s words confirm that this is the case, that within the European Union we are manufacturing it and marketing it. – Mr President, I would be grateful if Commissioner Vitorino could respond to this question personally, orally and in plenary session since on this issue the European Union is clearly opening up the way. Proof of this is that just this morning, in this House, the European Parliament approved a motion for a resolution in favour of homosexual refugee partners having the right to family regrouping. Does the Commissioner then think that we could apply this position to the case we are dealing with now? The Commissioner knows that we are referring to a current demand and I would ask him to respond so that we may know what we should do in order to contribute to obtaining positive results. – Mr President, Commissioner, the people of Andalusia, who are seeing Aznar’s weakness in resolving this problem, trust in, and wish to trust in, the European Union to guarantee their safety. Commissioner, please make your replies specific and guarantee safety in the face of the danger to the Andalusians and the whole population, both the safety of the inhabitants of the colony and that of the citizens of Spain. It is believed in Andalusia that it was a very grave error to take this nuclear submarine there. It is considered even more grave that it is being kept there. Through me, the people are telling you that it should be taken away, please. It should be taken to hell. – Thank you very much for your reply. I would like to know whether, from your experience in the Presidency of the Council, you think there may be any possibility of creating an international peace committee made up of the parties currently involved in the conflict in Afghanistan. You have replied by giving the facts, by quoting policies on cooperation and the monitoring of human rights. I would like you to tell Parliament about the political measures, not so much of the United Nations, but of the European Union. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, what could be done? What realistic political measure could the European Union take in order to make the tiniest contribution to improving the current conflict in Afghanistan? Do you think the Council may be in favour of at least promoting an international peace committee made up of the parties involved? I am grateful for the reply given by the President-in-Office of the Council. However, his role is to some extent that of a messenger and he must know as well as I do that women’s rights will be disregarded unless there is an explicit reference to their recognition in the association agreement. We are discussing a country where Algerian Berbers were killed as a result of police charges on 29 April of this year. We are actually talking about an association agreement with that country. I do not think that an explicit reference to the rights of women and Berbers is too much to ask. This association agreement should also provide for the respect of the civil, cultural and linguistic rights of Algerian Berbers. Is the President-in-Office of the Council prepared to pass on this request? – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the reality is that, after 2006, the least-favoured parts of the European Union will have increased, there will be more of them and they will have been enlarged for the worse. Please tell me which agreement or conclusion speaks of equity or redistribution. In the Brussels agreements and in the Franco-German pact which led to them, the only thing that can be deduced is that the cost of enlargement is not going to be paid by the largest or the most powerful countries. Copenhagen speaks exclusively of limitations. Enlargement is very good, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but the numbers do not add up. It is unacceptable that most of the cost of enlargement is expected to be paid by those whose income is below the Community average. The financial framework decided in Berlin is clearly insufficient to deal with the costs of enlargement and the greater economic and social cohesion needs. Please give me a full answer, as is the Council’s responsibility, and tell me who is going to pay this bill between 2006 and 2013. – Would you be prepared to make some sort of recommendation with a view to preventing the negative impact of enlargement on the Mediterranean? In truth, through his actions and proposals, Mr Fischler, the Commissioner responsible for Agriculture, has made the anti-Mediterranean impact of enlargement a reality. It is a fact that the whole of the Mediterranean area is frightened about this. As I can see that the Council is standing firm in its political will, and in order to prevent – as you say – anything like this happening, not through good intentions but through facts, I would like to ask you whether the French Presidency, before it ends, would be willing to make, in the way it considers appropriate, some kind of recommendation which would dispel these concerns, that is to say, which would ensure that Mediterranean production would in no way pay the price for enlargement. Mr President, Commissioner, you know that the basis used for this reform contains out-of-date quotas with regard to Spain. You know that, in this regard, Spain is a specific case and that the studies carried out and all the surveys demonstrate that in reality Spanish production is greater than has traditionally been recognised. Spain has been penalised in terms of its production quotas, and this is clear. This situation must therefore be recognised because Spain is not the only Member State in it. Bearing in mind that, in reality, the new reform of the CAP represents a settlement of the previous stage – and when it is settled, it is done in accordance with the calculation of the ‘real realities’, and not the out-of-date realities – and bearing in mind that throughout this stage we are now settling, Spain has been penalised in comparative terms – and this can clearly be demonstrated – with a disparity with its real production and, Commissioner, reminding you also that the Spanish olive growers received you always in the great hope that you would appreciate their reality and potential in terms of health and environmental defence, I would ask you: will you not consider the possibility of our real production being reflected in the national budget? We call for transparency and an adjusted quota. – I am grateful to Commissioner Kinnock for this reply and the positive attitude which underlies it and also – I am sure – the work which he is carrying out. Nevertheless, Commissioner, I have to point out that in this area of making women’s representation the norm, the Commission has had a hypocritical attitude for more than twenty years. Its attitude has been a hypocritical “I would like to, but I cannot”, and this hypocritical impotency sends a very damaging signal to the world as a whole. My question did not talk of exclusion, as you know very well; it talked of the fact that the number of women in high positions stands at barely 10%. The figures which you have offered – emphatically – here in the plenum of the European Parliament, are ridiculous and shameful. An institution such as the European Commission, which has for years claimed to be in favour of women also at the highest levels of administration, cannot be satisfied with that exclusion which the figures demonstrate. And the photographs of the European Councils are a horrific illustration of the sexism of European decision making. – Mr President, the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities has done great work on this report, which I believe has been improved. I have therefore changed my initial position and I am voting in favour of this final text. The results of the Council of Ministers of 26 June 2003, however, have been insufficient in this regard. I understand the efforts made today by Commissioner Solbes to present it in a positive manner. I understand it because Mr Solbes, when he was Minister for Agriculture in Spain, was sensitive towards women in the field of rural development. What has been agreed on the reform of the CAP, however, in no way takes women into consideration. What is more, neither Commissioner Fischler in his proposals, nor what the Ministers have approved, makes the slightest mention of women. I have studied all the agreements and only indirectly, by means of rural development or the mention of young farmers, can I see any improvement. Bearing in mind, therefore, the importance of these agreements on the reform of the CAP, this is very serious and we must ensure that the regulations included in this reform take account of women. The most interesting points in the Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou report, as it now stands, are the recognition and improvements for assisting spouses, men and women, the effective promotion measures, microloans, soft loans, and the proposal, which is very necessary, that women should participate in decision-making in professional and sectoral agricultural organisations. It is necessary because the CAP is still sexist. – First of all I have to say that, in my opinion, the President-in-Office of the Council has not yet answered Mr Korakas’ question. Secondly, and with regard to my specific question, I thank the President-in-Office of the Council very much for his answer. I think that the Council has been bold and has been quick to take some important measures. However, we are faced with the very serious problem of the failure to comply with the measures agreed. The Council knows that in 1989, both the production of feed with animal proteins for feeding ruminants in the United Kingdom and for the production of meat meals were banned. This indicates that the measures that we adopted at the time were good and have guarantees. But our problem is that they are not applied, that there is fraud in fulfilling them. I would therefore like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if the Council of Ministers is going to give guarantees that the Community rules will be complied with, if it is going to give guarantees that the existing measures banning meat meals are going to be complied with. Which inspectors are going to deal with it? What checks are going to be made? Is this a concern that has been latent in the Council of Ministers? Answer me please, specifically: what food safety guarantees are going to be given that all these measures are to be applied? –  I would like to thank the Council very much for that reply, even though I feel it was not very full. I would like to ask the Council whether it would be willing to consider these measures due to be approved in the COMs as provisional, until we have the relevant information relating to the impact on employment in agriculture. I conclude from this response that there may be a negative effect on employment in agriculture and that the Council does not want this to come about. I would like to ask whether it would be possible for the Council to class these measures as provisional until their impact is evident. – Mr President, I would like to say to the Commission that once again we are faced with a problem which relates to Mediterranean agriculture; an agricultural problem – fruit and vegetables – in which Mediterranean production in particular is directly involved. I would like to draw the Commission’s attention to the fact that this is happening far too often. I say this to the Commissioner present, but in particular so that he may pass it on to Mr Fischler. We continually have difficulties with production in the south of Europe, with Mediterranean production, and this is no accident. It deserves Parliament’s attention because, in comparative terms, these problems receive much less attention than problems involving northern agriculture. Furthermore, the Commission must understand that it is irritating for the European Parliament to have to insist on issues which, according to the Commission’s own words, should already have been resolved. This is noted in the recitals which head the motion for a resolution which we are presenting on the occasion of this oral question. In recital A, it is noted that the European Parliament affirms that there is great consistency between the Commission and the Council but, however, later on, we believe that the facts do not reflect this. There was also a commitment from the Commission to resolve this series of problems caused by the last reform of fruit and vegetables. This is not reflected either. In recital C, for example, it is noted that the Commission constantly tells us that it is aware of these problems, but it is not consistent, because it does not translate its projects into facts and is yet to present its corresponding legislative proposal. This motion for a resolution therefore asks the Commission to present proposals to improve the functioning of the COM in fruit and vegetables, in particular with regard to the reorganisation of the producers’ organisations and with regard to nuts. Commissioner, you must be aware that the only aid not to have been given continuity by Agenda 2000 has been that intended for nuts. Mr President, you know as well as I that the roads of Spain are blocked, and the Commission cannot ignore this problem, because this sector is paying for the consequences of a violation of the principle of Community preference and a dreadful marketing policy. I ask that the needs of this sector be responded to. –  President-in-Office of the Council, do you consider it appropriate to adopt measures to prevent sexual harassment in the Armed Forces? Such measures would prevent the situation Dolores Quiñoa found herself in. She was the victim of an assault but was then powerless against her attacker. President-in-Office of the Council, you must be aware that, in Spain, victims are defenceless against attackers like Lieutenant Iván Moriano. Such individuals can act with impunity. You must take into account, Mr President, the fact that a large number of cases of harassment go unreported because victims are ashamed and afraid, or because they fear reprisals. Lastly, please note that the number of cases actually made public is very high, and is increasing. President-in-Office of the Council, you do have competencies on coordination and harmonisation in countries like Ireland, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Greece, the Netherlands, Denmark, Portugal, France, Italy and Belgium. In Ireland for example, of the 60 women in the Armed Forces interviewed, 28 had been subjected to sexual harassment. In the United Kingdom military courts dealt with 192 violent crimes in the year 2000 alone. Thirty-four of these crimes were of a sexual nature. President-in-Office of the Council, coordination and harmonisation are needed with a view to establishing measures to prevent sexual harassment in the Armed Forces. I urge you not to evade your responsibility in this area. –  Mr President, Mr Korakas, the rapporteur, has completed a very important piece of work over the last few months. I would like to thank him very much for being open to dialogue and to all manner of proposals, right from the start. He has been very willing to listen. Together with the work carried out by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development this has resulted in a splendid European Parliament report. If the Commission adopts the amendments put forward in Mr Korakas’ report, the result will be a much improved cotton system. The improvements will include adjustment of the guaranteed national quantities, the aid system, and the establishment of a new permanent framework recognising producers’ associations. Moreover, the amendments tabled by Parliament encourage the implementation of more environmentally-friendly measures which will save water, reduce the use of pesticides, and provide for appropriate management of plastic waste materials. However, in my opinion the Commission’s proposal is too minimalist. It is concerned solely with saving money and is incompatible with what is supposed to be the European Union’s top priority: protecting jobs. This is because insufficient account is taken of job preservation or creation when choosing between the options available. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore urge you to vote for and support Amendment No 20, tabled by Mr Garot and myself on behalf of the Socialist Group. This amendment makes a significant proposal. We ask Member States to take employment into account when adopting measures to change the criteria for land eligible for aid. In making such decisions, account should be taken of the number of jobs dependent on these areas. We also propose that alternative crops and the existence of other options be investigated. In short, Mr President, this is all about social and economic sensitivity. I trust that our amendment will be supported, and would like to congratulate the speaker once again on his magnificent report. – Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I am grateful for your technically rigorous reply to this question, which I have also put to the Commission. But does the Council realise that it has been the rashness and incompetence of the Minister that has led to the loss of more than ESP 14 000 million, with disastrous economic consequences? Madam President-in-Office of the Council, when it is Ministers themselves who provoke the crisis through their improvisation and inefficiency, is it they who will have to meet the cost? If the Spanish government has known about a toxic shipment since May, why did they keep it under wraps for a month and why did they only raise the alarm after a month? Why has it been communicated to the European Union so late and so badly? Has there been coordination with the European Union? Does the Council realise that, having raised the alarm in the management of this food crisis, this unpopular Peoples’ Party Minister has caused real chaos? Which countries had this been exported to? Mr President, Mrs Ayuso has carried out an important piece of parliamentary work with this report. I, too, am in favour of the benefit to be gained through this measure by a fellow Member State as dear to me as Portugal. This is all positive. On the other hand, I am against and in fact I condemn the way in which the Council has proceeded. It is reprehensible that the Council of Ministers should have decided on these disgraceful advantages, aimed at softening the blow of Agenda 2000. I am not surprised that the Council is absent. It dare not show its face for it is ashamed by this grand finale, this final distribution of shameful perks, or should we say this muddle to end all muddles? For this is the way in which the Council of Ministers has proceeded with regard to the how, when and why of this measure. We said as much on 14 June when we told President Aznar that he was failing to defend the interests of Spain and that he was damaging Spain’s representation with this attitude. This is still true. As far as this House is concerned, these are facts confirmed by the vote in Council and we are left to point out that this measure has caused great concern among producers in the other Member States. We must also stress that this exceptional measure is not provided for in the Regulation and that other Member States have also suffered bad weather at times but they have not had the advantage which Portugal is now enjoying. This advantage amounts to an increase in the Portuguese concentrate quota of 83,468 tonnes for the marketing year 1999-2000, plus other benefits for the marketing year 2000-2001, including retroactive quota increases, for example those of 1997 and 1998, of 83,468 tonnes as supplementary amounts. An ad hoc budget is authorised for all this. For the year 2000 this will amount to over ESP 500 million – ESP 532 million to be exact – which is equivalent to EUR 3.2 million. So, congratulations to Portugal and shame on the Council. The rapporteur has been very explicit but has no understanding of why we have a regulation which is a tangle of incomprehensibilities and exceptions. The Council has worsened it instead of improving it. – I would like to believe from this long answer, which I did not fully understand, that the Council has a well-intentioned attitude to this very serious problem. Given such an inconsistent state of affairs as the European Union giving more resources and being more effective, for example, in the control of meshed drift nets, in the control of fishing, than in the field of the rafts used for illegal immigration,I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if it would not in his judgement be appropriate for us to have a periodic assessment of the situation in the Straits of Gibraltar and a report on the tiny advances made in this area. I believe that you have been very explicit, that you have answered in many words, but these words disguise a low level of effectiveness. The European Union, together with Morocco, and employing control measures for ships in the Straits, would thereby prevent these losses of human lives which now number more than a thousand, and which are our responsibility. The Monitoring Centre for immigration is nothing more than a story in the press. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are you not in favour of a periodic assessment? – Mr President, the very positive assessment that we are making today of the meeting in New York, should not allow us to forget that there have been serious deficiencies and great hypocrisy, even within the European Union, which make me want to double my efforts from now on. An example of this, and this is an appeal to the Council, is the issue of wage discrimination. It has been demonstrated that, compared to men doing the same work, women receive 50 or up to 80 per cent less. This is not in our legislation. Nevertheless, it appears that the European Union approves of it. I wonder if the Portuguese Presidency, before the end of its mandate, could make a recommendation in this respect. It also seemed extremely important to me, Mr Patten, that in the meeting in New York, when the policy of microcredits was discussed – loans to certain women so that they may be given access to financial autonomy – the countries recognised that these programmes of microcredits had been a complete success. Why does the Commission and the European Union, given such a positive assessment, not implement these programmes so that the European Union may also offer its women with no resources the possibility of these policies? Please answer me, Mr Patten. Mr President, the European Parliament’s delegation played a magnificent role with regard to the candidate countries. Our work has been outstanding in this respect. I do have reservations with regard to Poland, but precisely because Parliament’s delegation played such a significant role. Mr Varaut, you are very badly informed. You have made a fool of yourself. You were not in New York, but I was. Your information is not accurate. It is not even true. Your intervention is very unfortunate because it is false. I have to refute what you have said because none of it is true. Mr President, it took a hard struggle to reach a compromise within the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Opposing viewpoints had to be reconciled. I believe this is a valuable compromise. It represents a useful reference point facilitating full implementation of CAP reform. At the same time, it reduces the risk of agricultural production being discontinued in disadvantaged areas. I shall therefore be voting in favour of this compromise and I feel the Commission should accept it. As regards the Commission, I think measures should be taken to ensure the Spanish financial statement does not suffer because actual production was not represented accurately. Mrs Redondo was quite right to make this point earlier. Secondly, Commissioner, cessation of tobacco production in Granada should be deferred until the individuals involved can be offered genuine alternative jobs in agriculture. The Spanish Popular Party has already closed down CETARSA for reasons connected with financial speculation. CETARSA was a profitable public company. I beg you, Commissioner, not to now give the region the through your proposal, which would turn the 2 000 families dependent on tobacco off the land. – What the President-in-Office of the Council has just said completely contradicts what the Commissioner said yesterday, the day before yesterday and on previous occasions in this House. The Council’s view is correct: payments to farmers are at stake. It is truly outrageous that aid is not paid for nuts – which means they cannot continue to be grown – or that farmers are not being given what they are asking for: a reduction in diesel oil prices. Nevertheless, what the Commission does is take funds intended for agriculture, and which have already been approved under Agenda 2000, at the Berlin Summit, as if there were a surplus, and divert them to foreign policy. Although I am in favour of aid to Kosovo, I am not in favour – in fact I consider it an outrage – of taking money intended for agriculture, approved under Agenda 2000 – since if we do this it shows that it has been nothing but a smokescreen – and dedicating it to foreign policy. My question is as follows: what do we do when the Council says something diametrically opposed to what the Commission says? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, what do we do in this event? Within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure I have the right to put it. It relates to Question No 17 and says: Mr President-in-Office of the Council, following this tragedy, has the European Union acted in relation to Morocco in view of the fact that the Kingdom of Morocco has reacted positively through the measures it has adopted recently? I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply and for the measures adopted by the Council. I believe, however, that the Council is not adopting them with the speed that this situation calls for, because these are measures that will be adopted at the beginning of 2004 at the earliest and we will have to wait for a year or more for them to be put into practice. We have been warning of this for some time. These are urgent and specific assistance measures so that these human beings can be provided with the necessary assistance services. In this regard, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, could you not give us some specific information on this funding, which is necessary to update assistance services in those regions in which the boats are arriving, where the immigrants are arriving? Can you not give me some specific information here and now? . – Mr President, I am presenting a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1577/96 introducing a specific measure in respect of certain grain legumes. The European Parliament has been analysing this proposal since October 1999 and approved this draft legislative resolution unanimously on 23 February 2000. I would like to highlight the following aspects of the amendments proposed by the European Parliament. First, Amendment No 1 on the inclusion of a Recital 2a. This amendment supplements the Council approach, which is purely commercial, and opts for a proposal with wider economic, human and food quality aims. Whereas the Council only talks about the market, the European Parliament highlights the economic interest for the Community of the production of these grain legumes. Given the deficit of protein crops in the European Union, Parliament considers that this system should be improved without cutting the level of aid. Secondly, Parliament’s Amendment No 2 proposes that seed vetches should also be included in the aid system. Aid for seeds already exists for rice, chickpeas and lentils. We propose this aid because, as we all know, the production of seeds is subject to supplementary technical and quality control requirements, so that if the cultivation of seeds were not supported by some form of aid, this could have extremely negative consequences for the quality of production of seed vetches. Thirdly, Amendment No 3 indicates that, in our opinion, the Commission should, without further delay, make proposals for the 2000-2003 period. Before I finish, Mr President, I would like to point out that in 1993 – which is some time ago now – the Council indicated that it intended to gradually strengthen the current aid system for grain legumes. However, this has still not been done. Secondly, successive periods show that we are faced with a chronic imbalance in this system. The maximum guaranteed area is being systematically reduced, thus penalising time and again the farmers who are suffering reductions in aid of up to 20%. Therefore, Mr President, what the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development of the European Parliament would really like to see is an improvement in the system. However, we appreciate what the Commission is telling us, that this is a time of serious budgetary restrictions that we could not implement without reducing aid. That is why we are presenting this proposal, which is really a maintenance proposal, and what we are saying to the Commission is that, without further delay, proposals must be drawn up at the latest for the 2000-2003 period to achieve an improvement in this system without decreasing aid. I thank all the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for their collaboration and support, as well as the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. Thanks also to the Commission for its willingness to hold a dialogue and I hope it will be open to our proposals. –  Mr President, bearing in mind how much this is going to cost all Europeans, the fact that our aim is to restore confidence and that the issue is no longer the regulations in force but the implementation and observance of these regulations, should we not be thinking about how we can restore this confidence? Can we expect the irresponsible Minister, who insulted those who rightly warned us of this risk by calling them irresponsible, to restore this confidence? Or the Minister for Health, who demonstrated a lazy incompetence in this matter? Commissioner, given that these people are so discredited, will they be able to restore confidence, they, who are responsible for the current confusion, for the lack of control of banned feedingstuffs, for the environmental messes that are occurring, with illegal burials of hundreds of cows? Are these people, as discredited as they are, going to be able to restore the confidence that we need? Commissioner, unless we demand that these people are held responsible for their actions, we are the ones who will be held responsible. I can assure you of that. –  Commissioner, your reply has been quite inadequate and confused, because we know from the press that on 15 March negotiations between the European Union and the Kingdom of Morocco on the agriculture chapter will be starting in Rabat. As I am sure you know, Commissioner, Mr Aznar is the President-in-Office of the Spanish Presidency of the European Union. I am therefore speaking purely in terms of the EU. I would like you, Commissioner, to tell me what basic premises you will be working on in these negotiations and whether you think a climate of good relations with Morocco would have been desirable instead of Mr Aznar’s scandalous failure. I am not speaking in the context of Spain but of the European Union, since the negotiations that will be opening on 15 March have nothing to do with Spain and are completely European, just as this House and my question are also entirely European. And yet the replies you give to the Members of this House are quite unsatisfactory, as if you have no respect for democratic representation. This is disgraceful! – Mr President, has the Commission ascertained on which issues and in which countries these invasions of the public sphere by ecclesiastical powers are taking place? Secondly, I would also like to ask the Commissioner whether he would be prepared to schedule information campaigns to increase awareness of the advantages and benefits of the Community  for women. I have also heard references, Commissioner, to the existence in certain Parliaments of departments in which ecclesiastical powers carry out controls and monitoring of the activities of parliamentarians. I would be grateful if this could be verified. –  Mr President, promoting the cultivation of plant proteins in the European Union is one of the key issues on which the present and the future of European agriculture and food safety hinge. I therefore consider it to be extremely appropriate, Mr President, that both Commissioner Byrne, who is responsible for food safety, and the Commissioner for Agriculture and Fisheries, Mr Fischler, have attended this debate. The European Parliament has reflected the importance of the matter and has dedicated extensive debates to it as well as two parliamentary hearings. As a consequence of all of this, wills have been united and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development voted in favour of this report with an extremely broad consensus, and it today comes before the plenary without a single amendment. I congratulate Mr Stevenson on his magnificent work. The Commission ought to accept this extremely representative vote and this unity of position because, Mr Fischler, the position of the European Parliament is quite clearly reflected in paragraph 3, which says ‘The European Parliament recommends that the development ofEU plant protein production should be encouraged to reduce itsreliance on imports and to sustain the multi-functionality of Community agriculture’ In order for this position to develop to its full potential and to become a reality, it is absolutely crucial for the Commission to implement what is asked of it in paragraph 5: ‘...the Commission should fund an extensive research and development programme’ because unless it does fund a programme into the increased genetic and yield potential, utilisation and nutritive value of fodderlegumes and grain legumes as key protein providers within the EU, what we will have are words rather than deeds. Similarly, Mr President, Recitals F and I draw attention to the Mediterranean areas, which Commissioner Fischler very frequently overlooks. It has been said more than once in today’s plenary sitting that he must review this position, because these areas must receive aid for this purpose too, so that the production of grain legumes for livestock breeding in the Mediterranean areas of the European Union can also have highly beneficial effects. Lastly, Mr President, I wish to note the importance of the suggestion made in Recital D that we must take account of the difficulties currently facing Argentina, in order not to make that country’s situation worse. – Mr President, the Ebner report is going to offer the Commission a very good model to follow when producing its communication for the International Year of Mountains 2002. However, amongst its many and, I believe, very valuable, proposals, I would like to draw your attention to certain issues which, on this forthcoming celebration of the silver wedding of mountain farming, should receive very special, and in some cases new, attention. I am referring, firstly, to the role which should be recognised for women in this new multifunctional mountain farming. For them, a new approach is required today which is very different from their obsolete marginalisation within the traditional CAP. This proposal appears in section 19 of the Ebner report, but if we want to do it well, Mr Fischler, coordinated approach is required. Within the new agriculture of the mountain regions, women currently play many important roles, both in relation to agriculture and in relation to tourism, rural development, rural tourism, new technologies and in relation to craft-industry, commercial and economic policies. I hope you understand, Commissioner, that their potential could be enormous. Secondly, I would like to draw your attention to the proposal contained in section 22, which also relates to another of today’s pressing problems, that of migration policies. It is proposed that mountain regions where population is decreasing could serve as reception areas for absorbing immigrants, given suitable socio-economic planning. Thirdly, Commissioner, I believe that compensation measures should be taken to prevent mountain regions receiving less structural aid than they receive at the moment as a result of enlargement. This must be prevented, because enlargement must not under any circumstances have a negative impact on these areas. Lastly, I think that small and medium-sized farms should be promoted by means of a modulation of aid that stimulates employment. Commissioner, I hope that if you really want to provide new impetus and a new strategy for mountain farming, you will take these proposals into account. – Mr President, we are dealing with an excellent parliamentary report which is flexible, courageous, balanced and positive, in a very difficult field. I therefore congratulate the rapporteur, Wolfgang Kreissl-Dörfler, on this magnificent piece of work, and I would like to highlight the following points I agree with: Firstly, it brings up to date areas which were not covered, such as the vulnerability of sectors like tourism. Secondly, it introduces flexible innovations in relation to emergency vaccination, rejecting the obsolete elements of the current regulations. Thirdly, it criticises the shortcomings, but in a positive manner. Fourthly, it points out the insufficiencies of information policies. Commissioner, in view of paragraphs 20 and 21 and of what I experienced myself during the dioxin crisis, mad cow disease and now the , I believe the Commission should take its ability to directly provide Europeans with information very seriously. Fifthly, I very much agree with paragraphs 81 and 82 on compensation. And, finally, Mr President, although it does not fall within the competences of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, nor of this parliamentary report, I would like to draw attention to the annual report of the Court of Auditors for 2001, because it makes some criticisms in relation to corruption and, for the sake of combating corruption in relation to CAP subsidies, very good account must be taken of this. – Mr President, I have the justifiable suspicion that with regard to this Iraq crisis, Prime Minister Aznar has made secret commitments of a military nature to the Bush administration. I can provide the European Parliament with proof of this in the form of a series of significant public statements by Prime Minister Aznar in Spain, in which he demonstrates through the media his unconditional support for Bush, including for a unilateral attack. Does this attitude show loyalty to the European Union? Is this position which breaks European consensus loyal? Are these televised comments by Aznar in which he states that he will back Bush unconditionally in a unilateral attack loyal? Are they loyal, given that we know that that would violate international law and the United Nations Charter? I would also like to make it clear, Mr President, that not even his own country supports him in this, and that it does not support these positions. The enormous majority of Spanish society is against a unilateral attack. Spain opposed the unilateral attack on Libya and on Panama at the time and now it fully supports the common European position. Representatives of the Council and the Commission, has Prime Minister Aznar informed you of his unconditional unilateral support for Bush? With regard to Mr Galeote’s recommendations, they would be cynical if they are not first applied to Aznar. – Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I thank you for this reply and, as a supplementary question, I would like to know whether you approve of exerting international pressure both against the Taliban regime and against the States that support it, specifically Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates. Are you prepared to work during the Belgian presidency so that progress may really be made in relation to this disastrous situation? – The Commissioner confirms our suspicions that Commissioner Fischler is hiding things from us and hiding himself as well. I am not surprised that he left the chamber hardly ten minutes ago because this proposal is shameful. It takes from agriculture an amount to pay for a United Nations mission in Kosovo, in European Union resources and agricultural policy resources. And then we have a Commissioner who is denying farmers subsidies for nuts, whose production they are going to lose, and who is denying European agriculture the aid to deal with the effects of the drought. All of this demonstrates that Agenda 2000 has been nothing but a great firework display. This is a disgrace for European agriculture. It does not surprise me that given this outrage the Commissioner responsible… This is a disgrace! A disgrace! – Madam President-in-Office of the Council, thank you very much for your reply, which I believe offers hope in an area in which there are serious difficulties. I would like to ask the Council whether it would be in favour of carrying out monitoring, even of agreeing a timetable on the progress made in relation to the situation of women in terms of laws, because the Council is aware, like us, that if these improvements are not introduced into laws, they will not be consolidated. I therefore believe that the Council is working very seriously and in agreement with the European Parliament in this area, but does the Council not believe that at some point it would be good to agree a timetable for introducing this progress and these improvements into laws since that is the only way to consolidate them? –  In yesterday’s questions to Council, the President—in-Office of the Council did not answer my question on the number of victims of the war in Iraq. He said that he could not reply because he did not have the necessary information. My supplementary question also met with a contemptuous and deafening silence. I tabled this question on 14 May and we are now in July; if the Council had wanted to answer, it would have provided some information yesterday on the number of human lives lost. I consequently deduce that the Council, rather than being unable to give information, does not wish to answer. This could be interpreted as demonstrating scorn for the fact that the European Parliament represents the people. The victims of an unjust war must not be consigned to oblivion or to disdain by an institution such as the European Parliament. I therefore ask you, Mr President, to support my request to defend the dignity of our Parliament and to support my request to find out how soon we will be able to get this information from the Council. –  Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, we knew, and we warned, that the damage done to women by Taliban fundamentalism was going to be very difficult to repair. The current situation now shows that a great deal of sustained effort and programmes specifically designed for women will be needed in order to re-establish the minimum right to personal autonomy. There are, however, many practical actions that the European Union can establish. We propose, for example, a project offering women the chance to exchange their burkas for driving licences, so that women can exercise their right to free movement and, if they so wish, exchange this item of clothing – which incapacitates them – for cars and driving licences. The Commission should set in motion a cooperation project allowing Afghan women to make this change: burkas for driving licences, with cars included. Commissioner, this morning you spoke of the importance and achievements of the groups working over there. I encourage you to include this very imaginative, innovative project: burkas for cars for Afghan women. – Mr President, I congratulate Mrs Theorin on this magnificent report and I believe that all of us, as women, should be happy, since it is we who are going to benefit directly or indirectly from her courageous and innovative proposals and contributions. Mr President, this report opens up new territory in European policy, that of women’s’ contribution to peace. In my view, this territory is full of possibilities and could surely change the grim landscape of failures which, for centuries, have resulted from the exclusive domination of men. In this field there has been nothing but shameful failures but nevertheless we are still faced with a brick wall which excludes women. This is a very well informed, in-depth, and rigorous report, which is capable of stating fundamental principles with the clarity demonstrated in Paragraph 17. It is audacious but, at the same time, contains considerable practical sense and very necessary proposals. Mr President, it is a great shame that it has had to be diminished for the sake of reaching a consensus! My only consolation is that this says a great deal about Mrs Theorin’s parliamentary abilities. It is shameful that nobody is here representing the Council. Mr President, please tell me who is representing the Council at the moment, or the High Representative for the CFSP. The new Common Foreign and Security Policy cannot be created by ignoring Parliament’s proposals or the will of the European women who wish to participate in it. Please communicate our protest to the Council. The absence of the Council in this debate is a grave error. –  Madam President, in this new European Union policy we should not limit ourselves to slavishly copying traditional terrorism policies, but rather we must be able to focus on the specific characteristics of terrorism today and politically address the three factors which are at the root of terrorism today, which can be clearly identified: religious fundamentalism, Palestinian desperation and terrorist ultranationalism. Today, Commissioner, it is not enough to simply imprison the terrorists. We need to neutralise the murderous ideologies that create terrorists. So far, we have focused far more on the consequences of terrorism than on its roots. From now on the European Union must also concentrate on identifying, following the trail, and dismantling these murderous ideologies that form the basis of terrorism today. – Commissioner, you have not answered my question. The doubts over funding must be cleared up and you must tell us, please, whether all the funding intended for the fisheries agreement with Morocco, EUR 125 million per year, will now be invested in the people affected or whether, on the contrary, quantities will be diverted outside the scope of the fisheries agreement with Morocco. It has been a disaster, but that must not mean either a saving or a diversion of the funds which had been already approved. You reply in a theoretical and impersonal way. Please reply specifically to the question you are being asked. I asked you: what amount are you going to provide? In Andalusia, there is enormous concern about this issue. You are an expert in giving no answer, but the Commissioner in charge must reply honestly to our questions. It is very easy to avoid the question, but you are responsible and you must reply to what you are asked and not in a theoretical and impersonal way. – Mr President, Commissioner, thank you very much for this reply, which is genuinely useful, and in view of it I do not know what action we can take to urge the Minster for Defence in Spain to deal with certain serious cases of rape and sexual assault, such as that of soldier Quiñoa in the army. Because a year ago now the Minister promised in the Spanish Parliament to fulfil certain commitments to speed up these cases, but has not done so. There is a serious legal vacuum, however, because these sexual assaults are dealt with within military jurisdiction as abuses of authority and not as violations of human rights, which is what they are. Commissioner, what measures could we take to encourage the application of this directive? I would very much like some measure to be taken in this regard. Perhaps a letter addressed to you which could be communicated to the Spanish Minister for Defence so that he may deal with this case of soldier Quiñoa could have an effect, because for more than two years the victim has had no posting, relegated within the armed forces, while her rapist, lieutenant Iván Moriano, is in the army, he is a persistent offender, and no measures have been taken. This is a serious case of sexual assault within the army which is yet to be dealt with. It is also a European issue, Commissioner, because I have investigated and there are other cases throughout Europe. Therefore, if you will allow me, I would address a letter to the Commissioner which explains this issue, Mr President, and which you could communicate to the Minister for Defence, Mr Trillo, who should deal with this serious problem. – I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Seixas da Costa, very much for his reply, which gives us hope since it demonstrates that the Council understands the problem, is responding politically and perhaps even sympathises with the idea. Nevertheless, I consider his reply to be basically too retrograde. The Helsinki and Cologne Summits specifically gave the Portuguese Presidency the job of strengthening this new protection policy. You have said that you are against quotas but in favour of references. I would like to ask the Portuguese Presidency: do you not think it would be highly appropriate to include a reference, in the form of a recommendation, in this respect? I believe that the role of the European Union should not be to remain behind the United Nations or to be content merely with a reference to what Beijing was about. The European Union must be progressive. Women must clearly be involved in political decisions – also decisions with regard to peace – and I ask the Portuguese Presidency to make some reference in this respect. – Mr President, the Commission’s proposals on total decoupling and modulation are devastating for many sectors and territories. For example, in Andalucia and other regions of Spain this total decoupling may be very harmful. And degressivity means a transfer of funds from Mediterranean agriculture to continental agriculture. In terms of social cohesion we could go from bad to worse. Commissioner, the CAP has been producing scandalous agricultural incomes for a few people who are sometimes not even farmers. These socially pernicious effects should have been corrected in this reform. But no, far from it, these proposals intend to make these social imbalances permanent and furthermore, Mr President, they forget about the women farmers and agricultural workers, who contribute so much to European agriculture. With regard to the least-favoured regions, Commissioner, in person you say to us, yes, yes, yes, but then your proposals say no, no, no. The least-favoured areas must be given special intention in view of the impact the total decoupling of aid will have on them. And if this is not done through active policies for markets and the distribution of agricultural products, we will then have to face the horrendous damage which will be caused by passivity and the disappearance of crops. With regard to modulation, I would suggest, Commissioner, that you consider what the regional competence may be in those Member States where agriculture falls within it. Finally, I will refer to the how and the when of the reform. With regard to the ‘how’ in terms of the negotiations, Spain runs the risk of being isolated and of losing, as a result of the extreme blocking positions of its Minister for Agriculture, who should correct such serious negotiating errors. With regard to the ‘when’, there has been a degree of hastiness and if we continue to work in such a hurry we will very soon have to carry out a reform of the reform. – Mr Commissioner, the problem is that when Mr Aznar comes to the European Union to receive money for all the people of Andalusia, he counts all of them, but when he goes to the Andalusia Council to pay for services, he fails to notice 400 000 Andalusians, and this is very serious, because 400 000 children are the equivalent to the whole of Strasbourg or a city larger than Granada, full of children. This question is very important and I would like to know – since this is a kind of ‘baby fraud’ – whether the Commissioner will see to it that these funds are not taken away from the Andalusians, so that the funds which the European Union are going to pay to Andalusia, based on the census, will take into account these 400 000 children which Aznar does not count when it comes to providing them with schools and services. –  Mr President, to tell the truth, this answer simply consists of reading out the agenda of meetings, which I think has no real political value and is very misleading, given that the question that was, in fact, asked, was what exactly will be the contribution of the Spanish Presidency to our relations with Morocco. Mr President, the President-in-Office had nothing of substance to say. This ready-made mould for meetings could be used for our relations with any other country. Mr President-in-Office, please do not answer me with an agenda. Tell me the precise objectives and priorities of the Spanish Presidency with regard to Morocco. Something that we can understand as being an objective or a priority and not simply a agenda of meetings that, I fear, will be no different from the usual blah-blah we always hear. –  Mr President-in-Office of the Council, how many of these female agricultural workers will become part of the European Union at the next enlargement? What number were you working with in your forecasts? I would also like to ask you if, during the Danish Presidency, any actions or campaigns will be implemented to correct the current salary discrimination. – Thank you very much for your reply, Commissioner. It shows that the Commission has understood the problem. As a supplementary question, I would like to know whether, in accordance with your reply, you foresee, or support the idea, that women immigrants should be informed of their rights within the European Union. Could women immigrants be provided with services to defend their rights? I would like to hear your opinion and whether you have any intentions in this respect. – Mr President, I would like to ask the Commissioner, who is here today, and the President-in-Office of the Council to explain how they are going to apply the principle of equality within this enlargement process. In my view, following the Franco-German agreement, it is necessary to stipulate that the financial impact of enlargement must not fall to the poorest areas, who are beneath the Community average and who require sustained progress. Equally, the bill for enlargement must not fall to the richest. We must protect the whole of the enlarged Europe from any risk of impoverishment of any part of it. We must extend paragraph 24 of the Brok report to all areas and regions of the European Union, since enlargement must not have negative repercussions for any Community territory. I would like to say to the candidate countries that they must bear in mind that the defence of human beings, without exceptions, without discrimination, is today the backbone of the European Union. The exclusion of women, the exclusion of Romany minorities, are today the focus of our attention. There is no room in Europe for exclusion, for expulsion, for marginalisation, whether collective or individual. Europe, as from today, is entering into a new dynamic, which, since it is stronger and more powerful, must be more sensitive to its most distant and distinct elements. –  Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I thought that here we had a question on which the Council could finally shine, because this is a matter of enormous importance for current European foreign policy – as the recent referendum showed – for a partner of ours such as Algeria, a country with an extremely important role in the Mediterranean, and for the relationship we have with that country. Instead, the Council has given an answer which is a kind of lengthy side-step which makes my role useless. This is a Parliamentary Question Time. I ask the President in Office of the Council to be explicit, to use words I can understand, not bureaucratic ones, and I ask him to assess what view the Council should take on the referendum on the Law of Civil Concord held recently in Algeria. Please speak to us in words that the citizens and I can understand. – Commissioner, could you expand a little on your answer and tell me whether the Commission has made any specific proposal in this respect? I would also like to know whether, within the existing political dialogue, the Commission is prepared to raise this issue of respect for the human rights of Saudi women. – Mr President, Commissioner, this mother, Amina Lawal, has been sentenced to death, to die by stoning, brutally, for having had sexual relations after being divorced, something very common which is done by millions of people, men and women, on all five continents, regardless of their beliefs, Muslims, Catholics, protestants and any other. 'Why Amina and not me?', the whole world asks in the face of this Islamic hypocrisy. Mr President, Commissioner, the current application of the  in the states of the north of Nigeria did not exist before. It is simply a fundamentalist interpretation. The harm it would do to the life of Amina is irreversible. Later, power relationships will change, there will be other tribunals, Islamic ones or American ones, which establish different criteria, but Amina’s right to life will be irreversibly violated. Paragraph 11 reiterates that the European Parliament wants to see consideration of the victims of fundamentalist persecutions being given the right to asylum, particularly in cases of sentences to death by stoning. Mr President, Commissioner, we must not forget that these sentences to death by stoning are also being carried out in Iran. And a top official close to Khatami even had the nerve to praise them. Commissioner, we want to strengthen links with Iran, but are these stonings compatible with our coherence on foreign and security policy and the defence of human rights? Commissioner, I would ask you also to take account of the stonings in Iran. –  Commissioner, what are tobacco producers in Granada going to live on now? What do you think the prospects for employment are for the 2000 or so families who made a living from tobacco? Please be so good as to answer in writing if you are not able to give an answer straightaway. Cetarsa has announced that it will be closing its Granada factory and Mr Prodi has, to stir things up, announced that there will be no more aid for tobacco growing. I ask you Mr Fischler, as Commissioner for Agriculture, what guarantees can you offer Granada’s tobacco growers? Please answer me, but give me an answer that talks about alternative jobs and practicalities and do not try to silence us with rabble-rousing talk, or some nonsense about alternative crops. Commissioner, please give us a detailed answer. – Mr President, I am very grateful to the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Moscovici, for his very promising reply which, furthermore, puts into practice something which Mr Chirac, President of the French Republic, said this morning, when he stated that the French Presidency had ambitious and specific aims. You have demonstrated this in your reply. Mr Chirac also told us that one of the most interesting aspects to be dealt with by the French Presidency would be the reconciliation of family life and working life. In this regard I would like to ask how we will avoid this necessary concept being misused to relegate women further and also what role men will play in the reconciliation of family life and working life. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am grateful for your reply, although I find it rather skimpy. I would like you to expand a little further, because my main concern is whether temporary migration is going to be introduced into Community action programmes and the European Union's employment strategy. I believe you have said that it is, but I would like you to reply by expanding on your answer. My supplementary question relates, in this respect, to whether the Council will ensure that this temporary migration is carried out within the context of respect for the social and employment requirements in force in the European Union and whether it will also be offered to women, under equal conditions, within positive actions to promote women. – Mr President, the European Parliament is in favour of these measures and has also shown that it is in favour of operating in a flexible way so that these measures are implemented effectively. But the European Parliament is against the use of deadlines as an excuse for this measure never being implemented. The manoeuvring of the Council and its secrecy with Parliament, Mr President, are increasing our suspicions in this respect to the point where we almost want to accuse them of having something to hide. Neither do I share the euphoria of those who think that, by means of labels, we are going to do away with food fraud, nor do I share the fears of those who think that this is a form of renationalisation. It is simply a measure which will offer the consumer more information, and that is significant, Mr President, at a time when, in the European Union, confidence in food safety has been eroded. Therefore, we believe that the Council has made a big mistake and must put it right as soon as possible. – Commissioner, in the course of that very technical and diplomatic reply, in which you were so careful not to cause alarm, I believe I heard you confirm between the lines that Spain has in fact been failing to comply with that prohibition laid down in Community legislation since 1996. The increase in mad cow disease which has taken place in Spain as well in recent years – and your words also confirm this – is the result of the fact that the then Spanish Minister, Mr Arias Cañete, who denied that Spain was at risk – and the Scientific Committee did state this – was not complying with the Community legislation, and this is the reason for this proliferation and increase in mad cow disease. Commissioner, is this confirmed non-compliance by Spain of the Community legislation on the prohibition of meat-and-bone meal not reprehensible? Is this non-compliance not reprehensible? Your reply can only be yes. There is no social alarm, but it is non-compliance with the legislation which has made Spain the leading country in terms of mad cow disease in recent years. – Commissioner, perhaps you could give me a clearer reply to the following question, which is extremely important for enlargement: Does the Community legislation applicable to candidate countries from the moment they join, the so-called , include, in your view, the aid and financial support of the CAP? – Mr President, all morning we have been distressed by the news reaching us of a terrible rail accident which has taken place in my country, in my region of Castilla-La Mancha, in the town of Chinchilla. Many people have been killed, but what is even more serious is that apparently 21 people have disappeared, burnt to death inside the train’s carriages. In view of the anguish we are feeling in my country, and more specifically in my region, I would like to inform my fellow Members of this tragedy and ask the President to send a message of condolence and solidarity to the families and the regional government of Castilla-La Mancha, who are so seriously affected by this tragedy. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago the Committee on Development and Cooperation unanimously approved the recommendation which is today being considered by Parliament. It had previously made a considerable effort to speed up and rationalise the negotiation of the issue, believing that voting on the new European Parliament and Council regulation on development cooperation with South Africa was an important and urgent matter. It was important because South Africa is one of the countries which receives the most funding from the European Union for its development process. It was urgent because the regulation which forms the basis of this cooperation and which has been in force for five years expired on 31 December 1999, from which date the different procedures in operation were left without a proper legal basis. It is very worrying that we should find ourselves in such a situation. In fact, in the first six months of 1999, our Parliament considered the first text proposed by the Commission, adopting six amendments and forwarding them to the Council for their consideration. This is where the delay occurred, since the Council took no less than eight months to present their position to us. This took us past the expiry date and led us to the legal vacuum which I just mentioned. The Council finally presented its proposal. Their text adopted most of the amendments which Parliament had approved on first reading and, in particular, the Council put considerably more emphasis on the references to combating poverty and achieving the international development objectives, agreed on the basis of United Nations conventions and resolutions. Having examined the Council’s proposal, the Committee on Development and Cooperation considered it necessary to try to prevent the negotiation being prolonged by a third reading. In other words, we intended to accept everything that seemed reasonable and limit our amendments to things which were absolutely essential, and even then in a spirit of great moderation. There only remained two questions which appear in the amendments and which, in the form of a recommendation, our committee is submitting to the plenary. The first question refers to commitology. The Council wanted the Committee of Experts to control all cooperation projects relating to South Africa with a budget of over EUR 3 million. However, we believed that this committee should guide and monitor the broad approaches to development cooperation with South Africa and only directly control larger projects, leaving the smaller ones to the normal procedures, which are the Commission’s responsibility. Having considered all the main issues, the amendment we are presenting today finally raises the Council’s proposal from 3 to 5 million, and this committee, whose members represent the various Member States, will therefore have fewer projects to deal with and will therefore be able to concentrate more on a global view of such an important field of action. The second proposal concerns the budgetary framework for development cooperation between the European Union and South Africa for the 7-year period, including 2000, which is referred to in the regulation under discussion. During the previous five years the budgetary framework had been EUR 125 million per year. The Council, with a view to budgetary restriction, decreased that allocation in its proposal and set it at EUR 112.5 million per year. For our part, while we are signing an important Trade, Development and Cooperation Agreement with South Africa, it does not seem politically acceptable to send a message of financial cuts. On the contrary, we should at least maintain and, where possible, increase these contributions, if only as a token gesture, although we share the concern with regard to the available resources. Finally, the proposal approved by the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on whose behalf I am speaking, was extremely reasonable: the EUR 123.5 million already allocated for 2000 and the EUR 127 million for each of the subsequent six years, amounting to a budgetary framework of EUR 885.5 million for the seven years laid down in the regulation. Both amendments seem well-considered. The aim is to avoid a third reading, put an end to the current intolerable legal vacuum and provide significant political impetus to our development cooperation with South Africa. By asking you to support our proposals, we hope that the common sense and moderation which Parliament is showing will be understood by the Council. We also hope that these proposals are acceptable to the Commission, despite the fact that theirs – 25 million for the commitology question and 850.5 million for the budgetary framework – are somewhat different to the ones that we are presenting. If we are not understood, it will be entirely down to the Council or the Commission that we become involved in a third reading, with the consequences which the lack of a proper legal basis may have on the projects in operation in our development cooperation with South Africa. The figure for the budgetary framework suggested by the Commission, which is very close to our own proposal, should in any event have arrived at the Committee on Development and Cooperation on time, so that Parliament could have approved it and above all with the certainty that, in the event that we had adopted it, the Council would also have accepted it. – Mr President, when preparing its proposal for reform, the European Commission did not include amongst the people it consulted those of us in this Parliament who deal with the issues of cooperation and development. Therefore, on its own initiative, Parliament’s Committee on Development and Cooperation decided to present the report which we are currently discussing. In this report we advocate the idea that the policy of cooperation for a fairer, more balanced and stable world is not some sort of secondary issue, but that it should be a real priority in European Union policy and that, furthermore, the efforts which we make in pursuit of this objective must be considered to be a substantial part of our project. Furthermore, however, in Mrs Sauquillo’s report we draw attention to certain measures within the reforms proposed by the Commission, which we consider to be mistaken. For example, they propose an institutional structure in which the body responsible for formulating cooperation policy and the body responsible for implementing that policy are not one and the same. Our Committee shared the view of the rapporteur that the Commissioner for Development should both formulate and implement policy in this area, although these should be coordinated with the other policies dealing with external activities. What seems to us even more serious in the Commission’s proposal is the territorial separation, which is maintained. It does not seem reasonable that the Commissioner for Development should deal almost exclusively with the ACP countries while relations with Asia, Latin America and the Mediterranean region – which of course are very much cooperation and development issues – should remain in the hands of those responsible for external relations. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although we recognise the need to move forward in consolidating the partnership between the European Union and the United Nations, we must keep in mind a series of general principles that should guide our policy towards the UN and point out the inadequacies that we currently see in establishing it. The first thing identified and criticised in the report is the unjustifiable gap that exists between the substantial financial contribution from the European Union and its Member States to UN actions and the meagre political influence that the European Union has in terms of defining and implementing those actions. The contributions from the Member States of the European Union represent 47% of the UN budget and more than 40% of its spending on peace-keeping operations but, with the addition of direct contributions from the Union, our contributions exceed 50% of the resources for the various UN funds and programmes focused on development and humanitarian and food aid. However, the status of the Union in comparison with that of the United Nations is insignificant. It has a very small amount of political influence and the visibility of our action is minimal. All in all, here too we are continuing in the unacceptable role of paying but not playing. The Commission Communication gives us a sense of a change towards more ambitious strategies and objectives that are more in keeping with what the European Union should represent on the international stage, and Parliament agrees, perhaps in even stronger terms, with the direction advocated by the Commission. We are thus reaffirming our conviction of the need for a multi-polar international order, governed by the rule of law, so that the United Nations, with greater powers, greater credibility and also greater resources, will simply be essential. With this report we are also expressing the urgent need to establish the legal personality of the European Union so that it can cooperate effectively with the United Nations and its various agencies. Finally, the Resolution establishes objectives, such as fulfilling the commitments made in the Millennium Declaration in this field, in which the European Union must be a coherent and powerful influence in order to promote the role of the UN as an agent of peace and a guarantee of solidarity, international social cohesion, justice and progress for humanity. – Mr President, I am participating in this discussion in order to support the report by my colleague, María Izquierdo, whose proposals, like those of the Commission, seem to me to be beneficial and of interest. Grain legumes are a traditional crop in certain areas of southern Europe, including Spain and, more specifically, Castilla-La Mancha, the region I come from, which contains one third of the total area dedicated to these crops in Spain. Our concern is therefore to avoid damaging the aid system for this sector of agriculture and, more specifically, for the production of chickpeas, lentils and vetches. Chickpeas and lentils are two essential products in Spanish gastronomic culture and in our diet, the Mediterranean diet, which is now so highly thought of by scientists, which includes dried pulses in our traditional recipes. The purchase of dried pulses in Spain has been increasing by up to 5% annually. In my country, the consumption of these is 6.5 kg per head annually and anyone who knows how these products are cooked can vouch for the fact that this is a very substantial amount. Religious customs, for example, mean that we do not eat meat during Lent and due to the wiliness and common sense of our compatriots, meat has been replaced by other dishes – delicious dishes, of course – such as our lentil and spinach stew. We are talking about uses that have been consolidated throughout history and are now consumed throughout the year, including by non-believers and those who do not practise a religion, and that have left an almost infinitely varied series of main courses based on dried pulses, which undoubtedly increase the consumption figures. Another sector which requires this type of product is livestock farming. At times like this, when we are seeing fraudulently-fattened livestock and the use of unauthorised products, it becomes essential for the market to provide reasonably-priced, good quality natural feedingstuffs, such as some of those that this regulation concerns, and specifically vetches. Finally, we are talking about Community protection for a crop which last year, in my region, provided an honest living for around 17 000 families. Moreover, this is a sector in which, fortunately, there has not been a proliferation of bounty-hunters who move into agriculture in order to receive grants from the Union. Here we are dealing with traditional crops farmed by people who devote themselves to these crops from generation to generation, and who have contributed to the formation of a large part of the countryside and cuisine of substantial regions of Europe, which still interest us and which we should maintain. I am therefore asking for the support of Parliament for the Commission's proposals and the improvements which, by way of amendment, are contained in María Izquierdo's report. –  Mr President, I think that the new position which has been outlined for Helsinki on relations between the European Union and Turkey is a good one, and that it should perhaps be made more urgent, by stating even more firmly, the two principles on which – I believe – our approach is based. The first is that Turkey has the right to become part of the European Union and that we need Turkey for our project, which will not be complete unless Turkey is incorporated into it. The second is that in order for Turkey to be integrated, it must meet the same requirements accepted by the other Members of the project.  I am convinced that we need Turkey not just for reasons of security but also to regain the credibility and universality of the project of European construction. A large secular State with a majority Muslim population will prove that the Europe we are building is not a Europe with a Christian outlook, but is rather one based on universal values relevant to every citizen of Europe, of any faith or of none at all. This Europe that we are committed to is capable of sharing values with other great groups of humanity from whom a project based on a religious outlook would separate us.  If we state emphatically that Turkey’s place is ready for them, that we are waiting for our fellow European Turks to come and join us at the Union’s table, we must state, just as firmly that there will be no weakening of the conditions set out in Copenhagen. We must do this because we acknowledge that Turkey has a long way to go, basically in the area of human rights and of the rights of their various peoples and minorities, whether they are recognised as such or not, who make up the population of that country. Turkey also has a long way to go in terms of the way it acts towards Cyprus. We must make Turkey aware of this firmly but without exaggerating or caricaturing things, by describing their shortcomings and the obstacles they must overcome without shying away from them, but neither must we portray these difficulties as insurmountable. The European Union must see their shortcomings, even the most serious ones, as problems, and we will be committed to helping Turkey to find solutions to them, always bearing in mind the fact that our shared objective is to achieve the integration of Turkey into the European Union. – Mr President, the fine report which my compatriot, Mrs Ferrer, is presenting us with today addresses a problem which has been highlighted on numerous occasions and, at the same time, the urgent need to resolve it and open up new avenues in the relations between the united Europe and the third world. The problem I am referring to is the notable lack of harmony and coordination in development cooperation action and policy between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and between some of the Member States themselves, on the other. What has been described and condemned by many authoritative voices and, in particular, by organisations that work in this area – and also by our own Parliament – is that over the years the different Member States have been acting independently in the field of cooperation, often according to individual national views and interests, sometimes honourable and sometimes less so, but in any event without any significant effort to be coherent and fairly distribute roles, not even in terms of providing mutual information and even less in terms of coordination. To sum up, there has been no effort to act rationally and efficiently so that the available resources, which are always limited, are not wasted and instead yield the best possible results. Furthermore, until very recently, the required effort has not been made to reasonably coordinate Community policy in this field with the policies that at the same time were being carried out by the 15 Member States, although this is certainly not exclusive to the area which we are dealing with. It was truly regrettable to see how Community actions were being implemented, sometimes without even an awareness of what each of the Member States was doing in relation to the relevant countries or sectors. The result was, and to a large extent still is, so far, disparate actions, overlapping in many cases, and even the duplication and incompatibility of what each of us is doing. This is absurd and is something of a disaster. This situation was naturally unsustainable and was one more problem to resolve, but that need has become all the more blatant and urgent given that the very process of European construction, the reforms and the progress of the Union, are making it essential that we act on the international stage as one country, with one voice, and given that it is an undeniable priority for the viability of our project that we implement a common foreign and security policy. In our opinion, anything we can do in the field of development policy is but a substantial part of this foreign and security policy. That is what Mrs Ferrer demonstrates, and the heading of her report highlights the key concept of complementarity. This is not the first time we have discussed this issue in Parliament, of course. The faults which we had noted were too obvious not to have been raised in previous debates. Nevertheless, by taking account of a situation which is particularly pressing, but also particularly favourable, we are taking an important step forward and we are doing so at a time when both the Commission and the Council seem convinced that we have to adopt specific measures in order to leave behind the previous situation and produce the coherence which will enable the resources which Europe intends for development cooperation to be more substantial, in both qualitative and quantitative terms. Furthermore, in this way, we will achieve for Europe a much more decisive role in the challenge, which is of such concern to us, of creating a fairer, more balanced and therefore more stable world. Mr President, I am going to vote against the so-called compromise resolution, which my Socialist Group has not signed, because I believe it is unfair, biased and does not take account of the aggression and threat suffered by Cuba from the United Sates for almost 50 years. There are several dozen countries in the world in which the situation in terms of human rights and freedom is objectively worse than in Cuba, but we do not talk about those countries with the same concern. Instead, the European Union maintains relations with almost all of them and, incidentally, just today we have voted without any fuss to renew a cooperation agreement with one of these countries. What we do not have in the world is several dozen countries on which the United States is obsessively fixated as it is with Cuba. In this area, both our agenda and the scandalous double standards of our positions are set by the United States, with the naïve or deliberate complicity of some of our fellow Members. In principle, I am in favour of the 70 or so prisoners in Cuba being released. I am aware, however, that people who have been shown to have collaborated with an aggressive power would be imprisoned in our countries as well. I would also contradict those who distort the truth, both in relation to the trials undergone by those prisoners and the conditions in which they are carrying out their sentences. Nobody would be surprised, Mr President, least of all the Cubans, if following its ‘bringing democracy to Iraq’ venture, the Bush administration were to embark on a similar ‘bringing democracy to Cuba’ operation. For this venture as for the previous one, the White House would find supporters amongst us, but I will certainly not be one of them, and nor will I be one of those who end up regretting not having resisted before. I would also point out that within Cuban territory there are cases of human rights violations, violations of the rule of law, illegal imprisonment and inhuman conditions, not for the 70, but for more than 600 men who have not been sentenced nor subject to any judicial procedure. But that is happening in the part of the island occupied by the United States: in the base at Guantánamo. I am shocked that those Members who collect signatures so that the rights of prisoners in Cuban jails are respected and in order to visit those jails, do not include the situation of the prisoners in Guantánamo and a visit to the jail there. On the subject of the human rights of Cuban citizens, I would point out that in the United States there are five Cuban prisoners who have been handed down horrendous sentences, in trials which are dubious in terms of legal security, all as a result of actions in defence of their people from attacks from terrorist groups based in Miami. The US Administration is denying them and their families their legitimate rights as defined in the most fundamental rules of international humanitarian law. In this regard, we have called for the mobilisation of the Council and the Commission, today we reiterate our support and we call on Parliament to support the five people who the Cubans see as their heroes, and their families, several of whom have not been able to visit, not for months, not for years, Mr President. –  Mr President, I was told they would be sending me a technician, but he must be coming from Brussels because still nobody has come to help sort out my problem. I have been trying to vote from the beginning but the card and the device are still not working. – Mr President, for months the news from Côte d’Ivoire has been causing justified alarm within European public opinion and the corresponding concern in our Parliament. That turbulent situation surprised many because it was taking place in a calm and relatively prosperous country, with institutions that functioned reasonably well and with a society living in a satisfactory degree of harmony. The traumatic events that have occurred there are a clear demonstration of the process of degradation that the whole of the African continent is experiencing. In Côte d’Ivoire the degradation has been dramatic in terms of the economy. The collapse of cocoa prices, the crushing weight of foreign debt and the increase in fuel prices, among other factors, have led to an internal situation of growing tension, a notable decline in the social climate and an increase in unemployment and poverty. Xenophobia found a good breeding ground in that environment with political forces prepared to use it for their own ends, focused around the concept of and making immigrants that had been established for decades the object of their hateful hostility. It was in this context that the military took power, which, as ever, only helped to aggravate the situation. Violence became widespread, particularly towards the immigrant population or towards natives of the north or neighbouring countries. The political process put together to recover democratic legitimacy did not fulfil the hopes that some had placed in its procedures. After a more than dubious presidential election, the European Parliament was determined to call for the legislative elections of 10 December to be free, fair and pluralist. We must now recognise that our demands have not been complied with. The most serious thing is that, in 32 constituencies, elections did not even take place, which makes the crisis of legitimacy even more obvious. We therefore need to create the political conditions to put an end to exclusion, to facilitate the participation of the RDR and other political forces in the democratic process and to ensure, at least, in these circumstances, while awaiting the elections in January, that a path can be opened up towards democratic normality. The problem is not to hold general elections at any cost. In order for the elections to really unblock the current situation, we first need to create the conditions for those elections to be held in a climate of civil peace and reconciliation. The conditions for this are: that no one should feel excluded, that the Supreme Court established by the military powers should disappear, and that the Head of State should be unequivocally involved in the process of restoring democracy and that the opinions of the Committee for national reconciliation should be heard. –  Mr President, the Parish report provides a rigorous analysis of an essential issue for the European Community and for those who wish to join the Union. Young farmers do indeed need urgent attention. First, because we must support our young people in all areas of activity, and secondly because it is in our interests to keep the rural population, most of whom are connected with agricultural activities, in the countryside. In approaching this issue, we have to appraise elements that lie at the roots of our social structure, our territorial organisation, our economy, our culture and our civilisation itself. Many of the problems that affect these farmers are substantially concerned with one of the bases of the dominant economic model in Europe; private land ownership and the forms of land transfer. This report contains an appeal for institutional action benefiting a specific group and also for the implementation of concrete measures to give rural land ownership a meaningful social function. In this context, the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport seems to me highly appropriate when it states that young farmers are not a very homogeneous group. A distinction must be drawn between students at agricultural schools and colleges, young people who wish to set up in rural areas as an alternative to the urban environment, and the children of farmers. Even within this last group I would distinguish between those who are the children of farmers who work on the land and those who are descendants of farmers who, from the size of their holdings, are really agricultural businessmen. While accepting that measures should be taken to reduce charges on inheriting property, I would highlight other actions also mentioned in the Parish report to help make holdings viable, which are based on socio-economic formulas. I should like to stress another aspect of the report: we must try to ensure that when our future co-Members of the Union incorporate the  they do not bring in hidden habits that hinder the development of the rural environment in their countries. The change from collectivised farming economies to situations that can be merged with the Community situation may trigger off speculative processes that will artificially raise market prices for land and thus increase young farmers’ difficulties in setting up or keeping themselves in the countryside. This report, Mr President, will certainly be important in so far as we can also disseminate it in our own countries, in the candidate countries, and in particular in the sector it specifically addresses. – I do not know if Mr Dupuis is a parliamentarian or a false parliamentarian, but I would like to say that I ended with a very clear question, which asked whether the Council proposed any specific initiative for promoting awareness of international humanitarian law. That was my question and I have justified it with arguments which you have all heard. I repeat that I do not know whether others are parliamentarians or false parliamentarians, but my question was not a false question. – The case of the Kuwaiti prisoners of war is dramatic. These consist of more than 600 men and women dragged from their country by the defeated Iraqi forces when they withdrew, after having invaded and wrecked Kuwait ten years ago now. These people are perfectly identifiable thanks to a particular circumstance: 4 000 prisoners were being held in Bassora at the end of the war. At that point the Iraqi military, in an initial operation, carried off some of their captives, possibly towards Baghdad. Then the Shiite rebellion erupted in Bassora. It was ferociously repressed, but the remaining 3 000 or more prisoners were able to escape and return to their country. Those who returned were therefore able to precisely identify those others who had been their fellow captives. More then 600 disappearances in a population of 700 000 Kuwaitis is a very high number, and this case has therefore become a genuine national catastrophe. In the meantime, and despite the efforts of the Red Cross and the United Nations, the Iraqi regime has been refusing to provide any information about the fate of these people. The material difficulties of the families have been resolved by the Kuwaiti authorities, but the human tragedy is enormous. I have spoken to parents who have seen four sons disappear, wives who have seen their husbands taken away and young people who were children when their fathers were arrested. To the suffering of the victims themselves, we can therefore add the pain of their families and serious legal problems, such as those of the women who, after so much time, do not know whether they are married or widowed. My conviction is that the international community must demand that Iraq provides a response to these cases. However terrible the response may be, the suffering of the families will be less than the current situation of uncertainty, which is unbearable for them and intolerable to us. I will end by insisting on a point contained in the motion for a resolution. It recommends to the European Union and the Member States that, as a condition for normalising relations with Iraq, the leaders of that country must give answers to the question of the Kuwaiti prisoners of war. For the Group of the Party of European Socialists, this is as important as the demand that Iraq disarms from a nuclear, chemical and biological point of view. Let us hope that our resolution will serve both to encourage those, in Kuwait, who are maintaining pressure and hope, and as a warning to those in Iraq who are responsible for this grave situation. – Mr President, the report by Mrs Kinnock is one of those which the Socialist Group has followed with the greatest interest and affection. The text gives figures which are often so scandalous that they should provide little comfort for our consciences, because, at the end of the day, they demonstrate the incoherence of almost all of us who believe that the education of children is important for the success of any development process. There are plenty of declarations recognising that child education in the under-developed world is one of the main conditions if those countries are to be able to begin to free themselves from the situation of justice and backwardness they are in. Mrs Kinnock’s report mentions the numerous commitments made in this regard by the international community on different occasions. The latest was the world conference on education, which took place in Dakar last year. The report, however, is also a compendium and a condemnation of incoherences and irresponsibilities. Incoherence and irresponsibility on the part of the developed countries which, despite their promises, have not only failed to increase their programmes in favour of education and care for children in the developing world, but in fact have reduced their efforts in that area. And incoherence and irresponsibility on the part of the countries of the South which, apart from very few exceptions, are still neglecting the education of their youngest citizens in the face of other priorities such as military expenditure which, in the majority of cases, is still above what is invested in education. The resolution which we are voting on should not remain, like so many others, as a worthless piece of paper. This call for coherence and responsibility is a genuine demonstration that our Parliament should promote this issue as a European Union objective. Furthermore, however, this report should serve as a reference for the action of the Union and many European States, members or candidates for accession, at the United Nations General Assembly which will take place in New York in a few days time. Glenys Kinnock will be there and will speak out clearly, in the knowledge that we all support her and with the strength which the support deriving from our approving her proposals will give her. Documents such as this are the best way to respond with specific proposals to a form of globalisation which, since it is mainly focused on the market, is creating inequalities, poverty and exclusion on a world scale and is therefore becoming repellent to many people throughout the world. I will end by offering our thanks and congratulations to Mrs Kinnock on her work. It will be important to implement what is expressed here, but we must start by broadly distributing the report. This will convince and guide many people and will increase the credibility of the European Parliament amongst the citizens of Europe. It will also contribute to some people outside our territory recovering their confidence in us as well as their own sense of hope. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a report which should have been dealt with during the last part-session of Parliament – before the summer – since it was ready to be debated, and which had been produced principally by our Committee on Development and Cooperation, with opinions being produced by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy and the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities. In fact, our initial proposals were considerably improved by means of the proposals made by the rapporteurs Mrs Ursula Stenzel and Mrs Regina Bastos, respectively, and the text of the final resolution was approved unanimously, as I hope will be the case in tomorrow’s vote. Our report is an assessment of a document produced by the Commission which analyses the European Union’s development policy and the execution of foreign aid during 2001. It should be pointed out at the outset that this is a very useful compendium of data and comments which are not available in any other form for easy consultation. The document describes in a reasonably clear way how the Commission spent the funds available to it during 2001, both in the field of development cooperation and with regard to humanitarian aid. This assessment is particularly important, above all, if we bear in mind that the European Union is the main donor in certain areas. Our report, however, makes many critical observations, all in the best spirit and in the hope that in subsequent years the shortcomings and insufficiencies will be overcome. Furthermore, we take account of the fact that 2001 was still a time of transition, during which the details of the form to be taken by European policy in the areas we are interested in here, and the best mechanisms for implementing that policy, were defined. Perhaps the most positive element, in Parliament's view, is the fact that the Commission's report very clearly reflects the same policy objectives that this House had recommended on repeated occasions: the achievement of the millennium development objectives, with particular emphasis on the eradication of poverty. Nevertheless, what is less clear is to what extent our actions – which are significant objectively – are contributing to bringing those objectives closer. Furthermore, what is demonstrated is that the complexity of the procedures – which are often excessively bureaucratic – means that, in certain regions and in the year under examination, the Commission was not able to spend a significant proportion of the resources available to it. Another issue which remains in the air is the quest for greater efficiency in our actions by means of selecting more suitable interlocutors with whom to implement our actions. The participation of non-governmental organisations from our countries is often the determining factor in terms of our interventions achieving good results. In other cases, the cooperation we are able to lend to the United Nations and its specialised agencies on issues of development and humanitarian action appears to be very important. More questionable is the work the Commission's delegations can carry out directly in the countries benefiting from our aid, undoubtedly as a result of the scandalous restrictions those delegations suffer in terms of personnel. One of the criticisms which has been expressed most often in our debates relates to the fact that the report being assessed rather mixes up what is genuine development and humanitarian aid with what in 2001 was aid to candidate countries, preparing them for enlargement, and also action in the Balkans, which took up a significant proportion of the budgets available. Of the conclusions of our resolution, there are one or two I would like to highlight: the first is Parliament’s request – which is being repeated once again – that the European Development Fund (EDF) should be included within the European Union’s ordinary budgets so that it becomes more transparent and subject to Parliament’s control; the second is, in reality, our congratulations to the Commission – and more specifically the people responsible for our actions, both in development cooperation and in humanitarian aid. We sincerely believe that, despite the criticisms made, there has been considerable progress in terms of what is done in these fields but, above all, we note that there is genuine concern to take stock, expose problems and to seek the participation of many – of Parliament as well, of course – in order to ensure that things are done better every day. That is why one of the recommendations we stress most in our resolution is that the Commission's 2001 report – with its attractive presentation – should be disseminated widely within the countries benefiting from our aid policies and also within our own states, reaching the administrations – and also local administrations, which are often closely involved in cooperation and humanitarian aid policies – and, in particular, the NGOs, which are indispensable and wonderful partners in this work by the European Union. Thank you, Mr President, and thank you also to the Members who helped me in the production of this report. Thank you also to the people responsible within the Commission, who showed great willingness to help us, clarifying issues and replying to our questions. Thank you, finally, to the officials of the Committee on Development and Cooperation and those of my group, the Group of the Party of European Socialists, who cooperated with me generously and very effectively throughout the production of our report. –– Mr President, we cannot endorse the arrests and trials taking place in Cuba. We certainly condemn them. Nonetheless, we feel it is wrong to take these events out of the current context within that country. It is unfair and often perverse to do so. Cuba is the victim of aggression by the United States. This aggression has been condemned by the international community more times than any other. The blockade has recently acquired a new dimension in the context of President Bush’s foreign policy. The Cuban authorities could well be justified in anticipating the danger of a qualitative change in the aggression they have been subjected to. Given the philosophy of pre-emptive wars which is now the official doctrine of the White House, a military invasion could take place. It is therefore understandable that the Cuban Government and of course a large part of the Cuban population should respond with defence mechanisms appropriate to a war situation. We are not surprised these responses are sometimes disproportionate or unjust. We are however saddened by them. It will be difficult to convince Cubans that they are not justified in acting as they do. The virtual state of war Cuba has been in for years has suddenly become all too real. It is every bit as real as the Iraq war. It will be even more difficult to convince Cubans to change if the increasing provocation instigated by Mr Cason, who is in charge of the interests of the United States in Cuba, is not condemned whilst Cubans are criticised. Piracy and terrorism must be condemned too. I refer to the recent hijacking of two aircraft and a passenger vessel. We consider ourselves friends of the Cuban people. We understand them and are in solidarity with them. We therefore feel we are in a position to appeal to them for moderation and generosity. At the same time we would denounce the situation outlined earlier, and commit the European Union to developing cooperation with Cuba. Regarding the resolution before us, I agree in general with the little it does say. Nonetheless, I disagree with all it does not say. I also believe it contains serious untruths. These detract from its credibility. For instance, there are statements concerning requests for the death penalty. In my view, this is a text ridden with errors and omissions. It is unbalanced and therefore not useful. These are the reasons why I shall not vote in its favour, Mr President. –  Mr President, the Commission proposal recognises that the pigmeat market in the European Union is subject to cyclical movements, with periods of balanced supply and satisfactory prices followed by periods of plentiful supply when prices plummet. The periods of crisis are becoming worse and worse. The last one caused prices to fall by over 30% from mid-1998 to early 2000. The result is the disappearance of family holdings, whose only solution is to close down or to move into what is known as integrated production, in other words production in which the producers lose their independence as farmers and join a business structure – such as distribution chains or supermarkets – which dictates production plans to them in exchange for a certain economic stability. We have sometimes even wondered to what extent the cyclical market crisis itself may not be caused by the speculative action of these business structures, which thus gradually take control of the sector for their own interests. The Commission accepts that the only two ways to support the market – private storage and refunds – are insufficient to stave off the crisis, and yet it makes this timid and ineffectual proposal. Its lack of imagination and lack of ambition are amazing. Rather than a measure to guarantee producers’ incomes when prices collapse, it is more like a paternalistic piece of advice: save up in times of plenty so you can get by in times of shortage. What the proposal calls a regulatory mechanism consists of authorising a Member State that so wishes to establish a fund financed by those producers who join it on a voluntary basis for a minimum of five years, on the undertaking that they do not increase their stock. The contribution from the Community budget is nil, and the Commission confines itself to authorising the levy thresholds and the fund payments from within the management committee. The voluntary nature of the system means that the task of controlling production will be borne by only a few while the rest nullify this effect by producing without limit until the next crisis arrives. For all these reasons the Commission’s proposal is disappointing and we believe it is unacceptable. It does not solve the cyclical instability of the sector, it breaches the principle that the CAP will provide financial support and it is clearly an example of renationalisation and distortion of competences. Hence we back the report by our Socialist coordinator, Mr Georges Garot, and the amendments approved in the Committee on Agriculture. These turn the proposal into something very different by introducing, first, the compulsory nature of this measure for the Member States; secondly, Community cofinancing of the fund and the contribution of degressive launching aid; thirdly, Commission participation in crisis management measures; and fourthly, a broadening of the scope of this measure to cover piglet producers and closed-cycle holdings. Reference is also made to the need to encourage producer organisations, the prevalence of which varies greatly from one Member State to another. For the Socialists the amendments approved by the Committee on Agriculture provide an acceptable framework for the establishment of the proposed funds, and therefore if the Commission is not willing to accept these amendments, we ask it to withdraw its proposal, which in its present form has been rejected both by ourselves and by the sector. – Mr President, I am going to ask three questions on behalf of my Socialist colleagues in the Committee on Development and Cooperation, who are here in spirit but physically are in the Committee itself, voting on the amendments relating to the World Trade Organisation. Firstly: can it be deduced from the Commission’s arguments here today that the funding of ECHO for humanitarian aid will mainly continue to be channelled through the programmes of different NGOs, or is any change envisaged in this regard? Secondly: does the Commission intend to support the reform of the regulations which govern humanitarian aid? And, if that is the case, in what respect? Would such a reform be carried out in accordance with the codecision principle which is introduced by the Treaty of Amsterdam? Thirdly: can it be deduced from today’s discussion that ECHO will retain its full role of channelling European Union humanitarian aid in crisis situations, or, rather, that the activity of ECHO and humanitarian aid itself will be progressively diluted within the Union’s general policy of cooperation for development? – Mr President, the situation in Peru worries us. President Fujimori took power with dangerous plans: to give absolute priority to supposed economic efficiency, claiming that a strong hold on power was required to manage it, and to overcome what he called ‘party-ocracy’, subliminally blaming all the previous problems on the institutions of the democratic state. Our fears were confirmed throughout Fujimori’s terms in office, and clear signs of authoritarianism were observed, which saw outrageous propaganda and systematic manipulation of the media. Furthermore, the President’s disregard for the rule of law became evident. It was under those circumstances that the elections of April and May were held and, as we feared, they turned out to be a farce, and were recognised and denounced as such by anyone looking on. In summary, that is what our resolution says, and it is good and appropriate that the European Parliament’s voice should be heard in this respect, for our own dignity, and in order to demonstrate our interest in the democratic process in Latin America, but also in order to demonstrate our support, which the Peruvian democrats need and deserve. While we are voting in favour of the resolution in question, I would like to point out two issues relating to its text. Firstly, not just the mere fact that one of the candidates decided not to stand in the second round of the elections, but rather that that candidate was Alejandro Toledo, who is supported by all the opposition, and who in free elections would stand an extremely good chance of toppling Fujimori. My second point is that I regret the fact that the resolution does not refer to the disappointing role played by the Organisation of American States throughout this process. In fact, having denounced the irregularities of the campaign, demanded the postponement of the second round and withdrawn its observers, it does not seem consistent that it should remain silent with no further reaction or sanctions, contenting itself in reality with merely condemning the situation. By taking this attitude, I believe that the OAS has discredited itself considerably. I will end by expressing our solidarity with Alejandro Toledo, with the democrats and people of Peru, denouncing Fujimori as a sinister and autocratic personality, rejecting the position of those people who have reacted with silence and even at times with a certain complacency – which has been well publicised by the President to justify his tattered legitimacy – and reaffirming our commitment to rejecting this farce and to closely monitoring the events in Peru for the sake of the respect for democracy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am surprised that you should reply to such a highly political question in such bureaucratic terms; but since that is how you want it, I must ask whether the Council intends to establish measures for China similar to those established for Cuba, such as recommending that the Embassies of the Member States receive representatives of the opposition, of the resistance relating to Tibet, or defenders of human rights who clearly do not take the line of the Chinese authorities, over the holidays. That is what my question relates to. – Mr President, at a meeting a few days ago of Portuguese and Spanish Socialists in Santiago de Compostela, we said that European Union policies must always be judged in terms of the added value they contribute in the field of social cohesion. We thereby insisted that our Union must be, amongst other things but, for us, essentially, a great framework for intra-European solidarity. Naturally, this approach also goes for the actions of the united Europe in its relations with other countries, in particular the developing countries. So the policies of the European Union relating to these countries must also be judged in terms of the added value they contribute in relation to social cohesion, in other words, in terms of their contribution to progress towards a more balanced world with fewer inequalities. Therefore, while agreeing with the excellent and – in my opinion – not utopian report by Mr Lannoye, and speaking for the Parliament’s Committee on Development and Cooperation, we Socialists believe that we must take this criterion into account in assessing our fisheries policies and the agreements with third countries which make up these policies. I will not say that these agreements must be seen fundamentally as instruments of our development cooperation policy. We understand that there are other legitimate objectives, including the defence of the interests of the fisheries sectors in the Member States of the Union. But we would say that this fisheries policy must not contradict what we do in the field of cooperation and, above all, it must not contradict, either in the immediate, medium or long terms, the priority strategic objective we have set in the field of development cooperation, that is, the eradication of poverty in the countries of the South. In summary, we aspire to a fisheries policy which is coherent with what we are doing in relation to development cooperation. A fisheries policy which, at least as a collateral effect, contributes to the eradication of poverty in the countries with which we sign agreements so that we may fish in their waters. As well as respecting our partners and their rights as owners of those waters, we must learn the necessary lessons from our experience, which led us to exhaust the fish stocks off our coasts. It would be intolerable to repeat the same mistake in the fishing grounds of people for whom fishing may provide resources which are important for their own future. This respect and coherence with our goal of sustainable development for all must prevent egotistical and conceited actions by us, and by others who, equally irresponsible, through fishing activity in the third world, brought to reality the Spanish saying which says that we ‘brought these people bread for today and hunger for tomorrow’. – Mr President, the agreements we are debating will in future underpin cooperation relations between the European Union, Mercosur and Chile. They constitute a particularly important set of documents. Together with the agreement signed with Mexico, they are enabling us to update, relaunch and move forward relations between the European Union and a group of states. The latter represent a very significant part of Latin America from the demographic, economic and political point of view. This has a particular bearing on economics and trade. We should take into account that the other party we are dealing with ranks fourth in the world in these fields. It also has great potential for growth. I do, however, believe that the cooperation and political coordination which ought to be set up on the basis of these agreements are no less important. Close political links with Latin America have always been a priority for Spaniards. Nevertheless, I feel that it should be obvious to any European that the continent in question constitutes an entity which, given its history, culture and current state of development, is far closer to what is understood by Europe. In particular, it is close to the European Union venture. The Latin Americans are the closest to us as regards values and democratic aspirations. No other group shares our commitment to strive for social justice and national dignity to the same extent. The latter is, however, tempered by many decades of work towards supranational integration and responsible and coordinated involvement at international level. These agreements pave the way for ever closer political cooperation between Europe and Latin America. Perhaps we shall then be in a better position to set our own course. In recent decades both Europe and Latin America have been heavily influenced by our common uncle. For them, he lives just north of the Rio Grande. For us, he is just across the Atlantic. Cooperation between Europe and Latin America should allow us to make sound progress towards a world order based on democracy and solidarity. This is necessary to ensure world peace. In the light of globalisation, it is also essential for the survival and consolidation of democracy, the rule of law and the social progress we desire for all our people. This vision of our relations with Latin America is complementary to and coherent with the provisions of the Cotonou Convention affecting the African, Caribbean and Pacific community signed recently. Mr President, I think we are on the way to fleshing out a key chapter of what the European Union’s common foreign and cooperation policy ought to be. – Mr President, the situation in Sierra Leone has been the subject of our urgent debates on several occasions, and we have always dealt with it by encouraging peace talks, national reconciliation and aid for the displaced population, and by calling for an international criminal justice system that can try those responsible for the genocide that is being committed in that country. Today, we are not faced with a merely political issue, but with a criminal act that falls under a criminal code. We are talking about a kidnapping carried out by criminals who have no political links, either with the members of the former military junta or with any of the groups that signed the peace agreement in July 1999. Their demands are limited to a request for a group of prisoners to be freed and for the revision of a peace agreement that is supposed to be putting back together a country that has been torn to pieces. The victims of the kidnapping undoubtedly have a great deal of political significance. The international presence in Sierra Leone is a good example of the perseverance on the part of the international community in seeking world peace. Therefore, taking on that responsibility, we are in support of the European Parliament addressing the Government of Sierra Leone today and calling for the immediate and unconditional release of the British soldiers who have been taken hostage. –  Mr President, I would first like to congratulate the Danish Government on taking the initiative to propose the Council framework decision that we are discussing, which aims to equip us with more effective tools for combating serious environmental crime. We also congratulate the rapporteur, Mr. Di Lello Finuoli, who, throughout the negotiation of this initiative, has acted with great clarity and strength in relation to our shared principles and values, but also with prudence and flexibility, which led him to adopt several amendments incorporating various adjustments. We are therefore arriving at a final proposal that we consider to be both reasonable and ambitious. We welcome the fact that, by means of this framework decision, the European Union is supporting the Convention on the Protection of the Environment through criminal law that was approved in the Council of Europe in 1998 and which has so far not been ratified by enough States to enter into force. In the European Union, only nine Member States have signed it, and only one has so far ratified it, which is still quite scandalous. My colleague and compatriot Carmen Cerdeira contributed ideas and amendments that are now part of the text on which we are going to vote. I agree with these and would like to highlight four aspects in which I feel that we have succeeded in improving the initial proposal during the parliamentary process. The first aspect is that it is recognised that a country may act against criminals when the crime against the environment has been committed on its own territory, but also when it has been committed in another country, if the consequences of that crime affect the former. The second aspect is that this ability to act has been extended and will affect not only crimes that have been committed, but also attempted crimes which, for one reason or another, do not have any effect, but could have had effects. A third element is that it is applied to legal persons, when they are responsible, as it is they, rather than individuals, that commit the vast majority of serious environmental crimes. The fourth element that I wish to highlight is that the financial and other penalties imposed for such crimes will always have to be greater than the benefit that the perpetrators would gain from them. This will put an end to a situation in which, in many cases, it is not only cheap but actually profitable for them to commit a crime. This is a good document, which we hope will be effective, but we also need to be committed to it. –  Mr President, the new cooperation Agreement signed in Cotonou represents an ideal opportunity to correct the deficiencies noted in previous measures and to clarify concepts and standards for action in specific situations in which we cooperate with the ACP Countries, for example, in the situation that gave rise to the Commission Communication which concerns us here and to the reports by Mr Van Hecke and Mrs Maes, that is, what should happen when an associate country is involved in armed conflict. Along the lines of what was said by the rapporteurs, we think the European Union will have to revise its programmes of aid to countries at war, amongst other reasons to prevent the funds allocated from being diverted to military activities. Also as a matter of principle, it should reconsider support to countries or regimes responsible for armed invasions of neighbouring countries or that spend a disproportionate amount of their resources on arms, if not on operations to repress the rights of the individual or minorities within their own population. We must bear in mind Article 11 of the new Treaty which states the European commitment to policies of building peace and preventing and resolving armed conflict. The dialogue between the opposing parties and the dialogue of the European Union with these same parties must be the key mechanism of these actions. Like Mrs Maes, we are perplexed at the paradoxical behaviour, in which we see how, since the creation of the European Union, millions of euros of aid have been approved for countries that are clearly involved in the military occupation of one or other of their neighbours. In this respect, the double standards with which aid policy is sometimes applied are unacceptable, and we are also concerned by the contradictions that can arise in the conduct of Member States, or some States, and the European Union itself. I think Parliament would benefit from greater transparency, coherence, information and control over these policies. Finally, we must understand that the reduction or freezing of our development aid for a specific country at war would often need to be accompanied by additional efforts in humanitarian aid to the people of the country, who are the main victims of such conflicts. Here again, the intervention of trustworthy NGOs is essential, enabling such programmes to be carried out with guarantees of success and effectiveness. – Mr President, we in the Socialist Group and the European Parliament need to send a clear message to the Cameroon authorities. In order for the Cotonou Agreement to be effective and credible, the European Union needs all the ACP countries, including Cameroon, of course, to use actions to demonstrate their unequivocal commitment to democratic values. The governments and in particular the State security forces of all the countries associated with the European Union need to have a clear understanding that security and public order cannot come before the exercise of people’s freedoms, not to mention their physical safety. Cameroon is an important country in the regional context, whose indicators paint a hopeful picture of the economic situation, but we are obliged to look beyond this positive outlook and ask the government of Cameroon to make a greater effort to maintain the rule of law and to respect the rights of its population. Similarly, we must ask the government of Cameroon to comply with the recommendations of the United Nations, which has already asked it to reform the structure and activity of its security forces, in order to ensure that they are made up of regular members and always act within the limits of the law. Cameroon must understand that by making this effort, not only will it be satisfying the European Union and the other countries, but it will also be working in the interests of its own people. Also, it is good for the whole of the African continent that European cooperation with Africa, both under the Cotonou Agreement and under bilateral cooperation with our countries, should be governed by respect for the values of freedom that we all profess to share. I would like to finish by doing what my colleague Mr MacCormick did and also recognise the work and action of some non-governmental organisations such as FiACAT, which has passed on information and concerns to us in its constant monitoring of the situation in Cameroon. We want to encourage local organisations even more, such as ‘Action by Christians for the Abolition of Torture’, which are on permanent alert on the ground and have consequently been victims of injustice. They deserve and have our solidarity. –  Mr President, I agree with the positive evaluation Mrs Junker has just made and I want to add that Mr Corrie has started his term as Co-President of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly with effective and impartial work deserving of our full appreciation. I shall restrict my speech to one particular act which took place a few days ago, partly as a consequence of events alluded to in the report we are debating here. I refer to Cuba’s expression of intent, of 2 February, to become a full member of the ACP group of countries. A Cuban delegation attended the last meeting of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly in Nassau, and Vice-Chancellor Dalmau spoke in the plenary session, engaging in a lively debate, and afterwards held conversations with many of us. Following Nassau, a delegation from Parliament led by Mr Corrie and the Chairman of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, Joaquín Miranda, visited Havana and a series of very illuminating exchanges of opinion took place. It is my impression that this mission from the European Parliament was the final push which convinced our Cuban friends that the time had come to move forward on mechanisms of cooperation with the European Union. We are witnessing events of great political significance and I hope that we in the European Parliament can promote the appropriate favourable view and a generous attitude on the part of the Union, so that Cuba’s aspirations can meet with a positive response as soon as possible. That is important, for at least three reasons. First, it is important for Cuba, to bring its people development and prosperity and finally break the United States blockade, which has been repeatedly condemned by the European Parliament and the United Nations. Secondly, we must bear in mind that Cuba’s application has the support of all the ACP countries. If the European Union responds positively to the recommendation of our associates, we will be proving our respect and consideration for those associates and this will have positive effects on the whole framework of our cooperation with them. Nor can we ignore the value of such a decision in demonstrating the consistency and autonomy of the European Union and the fact that it does not bow to pressure from any quarter. By accepting Cuba into the ACP community we will be demonstrating that our Europe is not involved in the shameful process of ‘playing but not paying’, and that, when we get indignant about absurdities like the Helms-Burton Act, we are not being hypocritical but are ready to act and take all the consequences. The ACP-EU Joint Assembly meets again in a few weeks time and I am sure this subject will be dealt with there. Ideally the European Parliament’s representatives should be able to support Cuba’s intent at those proceedings, as our parliamentary colleagues from the ACP countries will no doubt be doing. Of course, Cuba must meet all the standard conditions, just like any other member. The Cubans know that and I am sure they accept it. It must also be made clear that Cuba is not going to be asked for more than has been asked of our other partners. Cuba’s wish to join is welcome and Cuba will be welcome in our circle. I say that wholeheartedly, but also with the deep conviction that, just as the blockade has produced nothing but poverty and, as a consequence of that, extreme tension and a hardening of the Cuban position, the integration we are supporting here, and the prosperity it will produce, will translate into the  and openness we all seek and from which all of us, especially the Cuban people, will benefit. – Mr President, human rights are an issue we Spanish Socialists are particularly sensitive to, since, at a time when for the majority of men and women in the countries of the European Union human rights formed the main foundation for their system of coexistence, Spain still had to go through decades of hard work and suffering before achieving acceptable and dignified human rights conditions in our society. Mrs Díez González, the rapporteur, is well aware of this. She understands the situation better than most, perhaps, given that, being a Basque and a democrat, she belongs to a category of Spanish and European people who, even now, have to fight against ultra-nationalist terrorism to consolidate the fundamental rights which are the European Union’s distinguishing marks. The purpose of my speech is mainly to express my support for Mrs Díez’s and Mr Van Hecke’s proposals and suggestions, adding just one or two observations. The first is that there should not be a restrictive interpretation of the many excellent initiatives they have suggested. For example, it should not be the case that very high standards in human rights should be a prerequisite and unavoidable condition for the European Union to be able to cooperate with third countries, but rather that to raise the level of respect for human rights in each country with which we cooperate should be the objective and result of such cooperation. My second observation comes as a response to criticisms we have heard with regard to the fact that, whilst we make many demands in the area of human rights in relation to third countries, particularly countries in the developing world, we are far more tolerant, on the other hand, when faced with frankly unsatisfactory situations in this area within EU countries themselves. This is not true. These reports refer specifically to third countries, but I take it for granted that the moral and political authority of our debate on cooperation in the world surrounding the European Union, with which we hope to be able to have a coherent relationship, will be much more credible and effective if we practice what we preach, and when what we require of others is endorsed by our own conduct, and by our self-imposed requirement to continue making progress, day after day, to improve the protection of human rights within the EU itself. –  Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last Saturday, in Madrid, I participated in one of the many round tables organised within the NGO forum that accompanied the Second United Nations World Assembly on Ageing. At this meeting, it was revealed that ageing is a phenomenon affecting both the North and the South, despite the growing divide and inequality between societies in the developed world and those of countries that are fighting to overcome underdevelopment. Perhaps the most interesting aspect was understanding that, regardless of location, there are three specific priorities for the elderly. The first concerns healthcare at an age when people’s health requires care that is more and more costly; the second is the guarantee of economic security in order that the elderly can continue to live independently when, because of their age, they have to stop working; and the third is the social consideration, respect and appreciation that society adopts towards the elderly, not only in recognition of the services they have provided – which should also be the case – but also with regard to the role and function these elderly people should fulfil within our social framework. A satisfactory response to these three priorities will increasingly enable the elderly to live in dignity longer, which is to be welcomed. In general terms, the EU Member States have managed to respond in a way that basically satisfies the two first priorities: health care and economic security, although benefits are often frankly inadequate and need to be increased, and we must remain alert to any potential threats to such benefits. On the other hand, little or no progress has been made on the third priority, that of consideration and respect for the role of the elderly in our societies. The picture in the developing world is even worse. In these countries, none of the three stated priorities have been satisfactorily met and, if there is any sign at all, this is to be found in the third area, that of respect for the elderly and of assuming shared responsibility for them, in which some positive signs have been reported. Within the demographic factors that alter migratory flows on a daily basis, these are other challenges we must confront. This was achieved by the Second United Nations World Assembly on Ageing in Madrid, which set out a whole newstrategy that the European Union must resolutely support, as we are doing in Parliament by approving today the excellent proposal put forward by Mr Podestà. We should do this for our own future as well as for the future of a world which needs to demonstrate increasing solidarity, and consequently, treat the elderly with greater fairness. I would firstly like to thank Mr Nielson, because for the first time we have had a reasonable reply acknowledging that a series of measures were in fact adopted in the field of cultural cooperation, the first time I have received such a reply following three other questions, to which the reply was that such measures did not exist. I would therefore like to thank you for making things absolutely clear. I still believe that these measures restricting cultural relations are pernicious, but now we can return to the tone with which we have spoken over all these years. He has acknowledged that these measures exist. I believe they are absurd. I would just like to make one small point: when he says that it would have been more correct to say that Heads of Government had been insulted, it is not that it would have been more correct, but that it was absolutely incorrect to say that Heads of State had been insulted. And it is the Commission’s responsibility not to confuse a Head of State with a Head of Government. It is true that two Heads of Government were insulted. One of them has now been relieved of that position by the sovereign population of my country and he will therefore no longer be Head of Government when any insult is directed at him. Thank you, Mr Nielson, for the excellent cooperation we have enjoyed over the last five years, including on the issue of relations with Cuba. –  Mr President, our friend Mr Rod’s recommendation in favour of Parliament’s ratification of the Cotonou Agreement is accompanied by an exhaustive analysis of the agreement, its significance and new developments, made from a critical point of view that we share for the same reasons as the rapporteur himself: because of the gaps in the Treaty and the shortcomings that have already become apparent during its short provisional life. This does not prevent us, however, from supporting it and encouraging its ratification. This agreement was drawn up in a world significantly different to that of the first Lomé Convention. Under current global conditions, economic instruments are no longer sufficient in themselves to steer globalisation towards the goals of justice. We must also have instruments of political cooperation. For this reason, even with all the shortcomings, this agreement should be welcomed so that we can get the best out of it. The role of the European Parliament in this agreement cannot be limited to controlling the European Development Fund. I think that we can achieve a great deal with this agreement. At the moment, we can publicise its positive aspects and attempt to have it ratified by our national parliaments. It is scandalous that a year and a half after it was signed, only three of the fifteen Member States appear to have ratified it. Another important action that we can encourage is the consolidation and effective operation of the national parliaments in ACP countries. Mr Rod highlights the participation of civil society as something new in the agreement and recognises the ever-important role of the State but, within States themselves, efficient parliaments are the best guarantee of preventing poverty, fighting corruption and of making our cooperation more effective, which is the underlying objective of the Cotonou Agreement. We support our partners’ parliaments and also the ACP-EU Joint Assembly, which will be able to carry out the function of democratic control conferred on it by the agreement. Mr Rod asks us the million-dollar question: does our cooperation in the context of the Cotonou agreement aid the development of our ACP partners or does it simply seek to impose the liberal model on these countries? And does the liberal model actually guarantee fair development in these countries? I think that, on its own, it does not work. For this reason, we should make an effort to ensure that this Cotonou agreement is apart from being merely a framework for trade relations, an instrument for decent and equitable political and economic relations with the ACP States and to ensure that our cooperation with them is one of the pillars of a supportive and democratic world order that we need and which we are committed to, at least, as far as my group is concerned. . – Mr President, the two reports that I am presenting affect seven regulations, the reform of which we are debating, and which refer to the outermost regions of the European Union, that is, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Réunion and Guyana, part of France, the Azores and Madeira, part of Portugal; and the Canary Islands, part of Spain. Distance, internal dispersion and climate have been significant obstacles to their development. Distance and transport costs for imports and exports, and the small size of these territories have prevented them from attracting and benefiting from significant investment. Declaring its duty of Community solidarity in responding to the needs of these outermost regions, between 1989 and 1991 the European Community adopted some other action programmes due to their remote and island nature, called the POSEIs. The aim was to promote sustainable development and strengthen job-creating production sectors. This was done using the Structural Funds and by favourably adjusting common policies, particularly the CAP. Special aid was thus established for particular local products and the supply of raw materials was improved through specific supply arrangements included in the respective POSEIs. The favourable measures established by the Community have been combined with very significant efforts on the part of the Member States directly concerned: France, Portugal and Spain, and by the regional and local administrations. Considerable progress has therefore been made, but despite this, there are still inadequacies, which is why we need to maintain the measures, even improving the mechanisms to seek even more positive results. In any case, in order to continue to make progress in integrating these regions into the European area and in order to deal with phenomena that have appeared recently with the growing process of globalisation, we need to have a sounder legal basis and strengthen the regulations that have been operating up until now. We have been working on this for months, also relying on the fact that in Amsterdam, the recognition of the specific nature of the outermost regions and the commitment to support them in order to overcome their problems was introduced into the Treaties in Article 299. The reform plan that was presented to us was moving in the right direction, but it fell short in its proposals. For example, it did not propose the essential change to the legal basis in order to refer to the new text of the Treaties that I have just mentioned, but it was certainly a good starting point for our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to work on. The committee had better cooperation from the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, the latter in order to bring about the change in the legal basis. We also listened to the authorities and social sectors of the territories that we are dealing with and we thus arrived at a series of amendments that were debated and adopted in the committee proceedings. As well as the amendment on updating the legal basis, there are amendments that respond to joint demands from the different regions and others that are specific to each of them. Among the joint ones it is worth mentioning the possibility of these regions being able to export products produced with raw materials introduced to the islands under the SSAs with rights to refunds, the need to increase support for the livestock breeding sector and to boost agricultural and food SMEs. The amendments on specific sensitive products from each region concern tomatoes in the Canary Islands, livestock, milk products and the sugar industry in the Azores and the wicker industry in Madeira, and support for rice in some of the French territories. With these amendments we are expressing our will to overcome once and for all the problems of our outermost regions. They are not about subsidising economic and social backwardness in these territories, but about acting decisively to permanently overcome this backwardness and thus to offer those who live there living conditions and prospects for the future that are comparable to those of the rest of the citizens of the European Union. Besides, the costs of the improvements that we are proposing are certainly insignificant in the context of the budgetary proportions that the Union deals with. I will finish by thanking the officials of our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for their dedication and professional attitude, and also by expressing my thanks to the Commission and the Council, who have supported us by showing interest and understanding. If, as I hope, Parliament adopts what the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is submitting for its opinion, it will be the Council of the Union that will have the responsibility of not disappointing our expectations, which are in fact those of the people of the Canary Islands, Madeira, the Azores, Martinique, Guadeloupe, Réunion and Guyana. Please bear in mind that it is in measures such as this that the confidence of citizens in the activity of the European Union is at stake, as is, in short, the credibility of our project. Mr President, on 14 August there was a very serious accident at the oil refinery belonging to Repsol YPF in Puertollano, one of the main refineries in Spain, located in my region of Castilla-la Mancha. The explosion and fire which followed it led to the deaths of seven workers. Many people were also injured, causing great distress in the city, in my province of Ciudad Real and in the whole of Spain. Unfortunately, the deficiencies in the protection measures in such a dangerous industry have been demonstrated, but, above all, it has become clear that accidents and deaths resulting from them have increased as a result of sub-contracting and the general work insecurity in Spain, which is three times higher than the Community average. I would like to ask the President to send a message of condolence and solidarity on behalf of this Parliament to the families of the dead and injured workers and the municipal, provincial and regional authorities which have played an important and worthy role in dealing with the accident and its consequences. –  Mr President, we think Commissioner Lamy’s ‘Everything but arms’ initiative, which should allow the least developed countries to place their products on European Union markets with no quantitative or tariff restrictions, is a positive measure. In this overall evaluation we agree both with Joaquim Miranda and his report, which was approved by our Committee on Development and Cooperation, and with the concerns and criticisms that the rapporteur expresses with regard to the proposed amendments to the Regulation that we are discussing here. We also feel it is unnecessary, mean and even pathetic that for products like sugar, rice and bananas the proposed opening-up will not be fully effective until 2009. The reasons that have led to this cautious measure do not seem justified to us. Other machinery could have been set up to protect Community production of these foodstuffs without diminishing the value of the initiative we are debating through this move. We believe that the proposal made by Mr Miranda that this whole question should be discussed with our partners, the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries, within the context of the Cotonou Agreement, is also pertinent. This ‘Everything but arms’ programme is essentially a political gesture, the essential value of which lies in the European Union’s show of solidarity towards those who are most in need within the developing world. As a gesture, it is of interest and important, but there is no reason to exaggerate its consequences – which some have defined as a threat to certain sectors in the European Union – or to exaggerate its positive effects, which are certainly very limited, on the economies of the actual countries affected. Even though this is all it may be, what should be stressed is that it is a little step in the right direction. Perhaps the most debatable point is the discrimination it makes among developing countries between least developed and slightly more developed ones; this is an arbitrary division and therefore one that introduces injustice, something that in the medium term we should overcome. Lastly, I shall mention a detail that we believe is indispensable and which is already hinted at in the regulation to which this initiative refers. It is the need to establish strict controls to prevent fraud, whereby the produce of other countries, even highly-developed ones, might reach Europe via countries that are beneficiaries of these measures in order to benefit from the new conditions established here. This really could become dangerous, and it would also be cheating the generous intentions behind the measure, which if defrauded would turn against the interests of those whom we are trying to help today. –  Mr President, we have never before spoken with so many people and such little attention in the House. The large-scale production and use of anti-personnel landmines is an appalling phenomenon, not only due to its consequences, but also because it demonstrates worrying cruelty, perversity, hypocrisy and the paradoxical dehumanisation of a good number of those with responsibility for humaneness and for ensuring its progress. The figures in the reports by Mrs Bonino and Mrs Morgantini are frightening and, while reading them, many of us reacted with a deep feeling of shame as people dedicated to politics, and with cynical pessimism with regard to the human condition itself. We are talking about millions of people killed or maimed, between 70 and 100 million mines that could explode at any time, anywhere in 60 countries. The reports give less emphasis to the fact that the majority of those mines were manufactured outside the countries in which they are buried. Nor is emphasis given to the fact that the list of countries most seriously affected mainly comprises developing countries. Fortunately, emphasis is placed, however, on the fact that the mines constitute a fundamental obstacle to the development of these regions in addition to a lethal threat of death and distress.   Courage is needed in the face of the reality with which Mrs Bonino and Mrs Morgantini present us if we are not to fall victim to despair. Fortunately, their reports also include a long list of the actions currently under way to put an end to the folly of anti-personnel mines, to oppose their production and proliferation, to eliminate them, to compensate the damage caused by those that have already fulfilled their cruel purpose, to clear and free from their effects territories so unjustly maltreated. And here, as in other contexts, the actions of the European Union and Parliament itself give reason for confidence, for reconciliation with our own kind, as with this step forward, this Commission regulation that we are trying to improve in this parliamentary procedure, reaffirming our commitment and our hope. This perspective will guide our amendments and our votes. Our efforts over all these years have been to this end, including in 1998 when the North-South Centre of the Council of Europe, over which I have the honour of presiding, awarded its annual prize to Mr Axworthy, Minister for Foreign Affairs in Canada, for the efforts of his government which took concrete form in the Ottawa Convention. Mrs Bonino, of course, received this same prize in 1999 and her report today is further proof that those of us who supported her candidature were right to do so. – Mr President, the report by Mr Galeote identifies certain shortcomings, which the Commission has already recognised in its communication relating to the reform necessary to improve the Community’s external service and furthermore it puts forward a number of proposals aimed at achieving the best possible operation of that external service. The importance of his work is accentuated by two factors which have arisen simultaneously in recent times. On the one hand, the role, which is increasingly recognised and accepted by the Union, which we have to play on the globalised international stage, and, on the other hand, the cooperation which we must promote in pursuit of a North-South rebalance and which finds its most obvious embodiment within the framework of the new Cotonou Agreement. As a member of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, I would like to support what Karin Junker said in her opinion, highlighting the essential fact that our external service contributes to the success of those countries which, through development, are seeking freedom and prosperity. Through the amendments approved by the Committee on Development and Cooperation we ask that the rationalisation of the external service should not mean the closure of delegations in the developing countries. The reform must take place with a view to increasing the efficiency of action rather than according to exclusively financial criteria. To this end, the Commission must be present on the ground, the officials must have direct contact with the reality of under-development, with the development agents and the local authorities, and very much increasing support for, and support from, both local and European NGOs. The creation of delegations with a regional scope is not an acceptable alternative to the closure of delegations in countries such as Cape Verde or Costa Rica. We also ask that the multi-annual programmes for delegations, announced by the Commission, take account of the development objectives, that local staff be employed, that the officials have specific training and that greater coordination between the Commission delegations and the representations of the Member States be sought. I believe it would be very positive to open a delegation in a country such as Cuba, which is a pre-candidate to the signing of the Cotonou Agreement and which has been accepted for membership by our partners in the ACP Community. – Mr President, India is a State whose independence and foundation in the middle of the last century was possible based on a mass and globally respected social mobilisation, which was built on a doctrine of passive resistance as a political resource. Mahatma Gandhi led the Indians with a message of non violence, tolerance, and overcoming religious differences, in an epic campaign that has remained among the most symbolic victories of peaceful methods in politics, as it established the most populated democracy in the world and a society considered to be a model of co-existence of races, languages and, in short, of civilisations. However, conflicts based on religious fanaticism have never stopped occurring in India. Although one of the most significant victims of those conflicts was Gandhi himself, the list continued with other assassinations, such as that of the Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, her son, also Prime Minister, and others. And as well as those people whom we know as important figures, thousands of innocent people have fallen victim to intransigence and fanaticism. It is a paradox that it is precisely where the material and social needs are greatest that religious extremism and intolerance arises and builds up. We are talking about a country where the inequalities are devastating and where the physical environment and natural disasters often make life even more difficult for the people, and it is there that conflicts between the followers of majority beliefs and other smaller communities have permanently marked and tarnished the history of the greatest democracy in the world. The international community must ask the Government of India to guarantee the safety of its people with the same amount of effort that it is making with other challenges of development in which it is achieving significant success. The Indian Government must maintain its efforts by dedicating sufficient resources to enable people who have been displaced to return to their place of origin and to re-establish harmony in Gujarat and other areas affected by the recent clashes that led to our debate, and they must also purge the cases of collusion by the security forces in episodes of religious and political violence. The European Union must support these efforts and urgently send as much aid as possible to the area. – Mr President, in this year 2002 during which the international community has met successively in Monterrey, Rome and Johannesburg, setting as a priority the challenge of leading two-thirds of humanity out of the situation of hunger, poverty and under-development that affects them, it seemed that the European Parliament was obliged to consider and adopt a position on how the European Union can support agricultural and rural development policies that contribute to the development of the countries of the South. The numerous amendments, which the rapporteur has shown flexibility in accepting, mean that we are faced with an acceptable and balanced motion for a resolution. But there are principles that we should take more account of when assessing the different policies of the European Union and also, of course, Community agricultural policies. In fact, for many years the Socialists, when judging any Community policy, have used the yardstick of what that policy offered in terms of social cohesion. To this end a particular policy was considered by us to be positive insofar as it offered added value in terms of the cohesion of our societies and negative insofar as it increased inequalities between the Europeans. Well, in the global world we are becoming involved in it is clear that solidarity cannot be an exclusively internal, or intra-European, value. And therefore, every Community policy deserves our support insofar as they contribute not only to social cohesion within our borders but also to reducing inequalities at world level. For us, the common agricultural policy was something to be welcomed, since it supported our farmers, so that they would not be left behind in a process of prosperity which was benefiting other sectors of society. But, later on, when it comes to evaluating the Community’s agricultural policies, it will not be sufficient to measure whether they contribute to maintaining or improving the situation of our farmers and breeders. Furthermore, we should consider whether subsidies to our producers also contribute to improving the situation in the Third World, or whether they actually devastate it, increasing the chasm separating it from our developed world. In this case, those policies will not be acceptable and, however difficult the exercise will be, others will have to be found which are good, fair and provide a balance for the North, while being good and fair for the South, and providing a balance in terms of relations between the South and the North. From this viewpoint we will vote in favour of the Resolution proposed by the Committee on Development and Cooperation as a conclusion to the report presented by Mr Khanbhai. –  Mr President, Mrs Carlotti’s excellent report is both an optimistic declaration of confidence in the potential of the Cotonou Agreement and a call on the responsibility of each and every one of us to make sure that this potential does not end up as yet one more lost opportunity, but rather that the most ambitious plans of the agreement come to fruition. The report underlines that Cotonou is a major step forward in the process set out some decades ago for cooperation between the European Union and a growing number of African, Caribbean and Pacific States, with the aim of aiding their development. It reminds us that we are facing a process that has matured and that has also adapted to the current situation. Europeans have not granted this new agreement to our partners, but have fully and rigorously negotiated it with them. This is, therefore, an association agreement between partners that are equals in their mutual respect, recognition and rights. It is an agreement which, in addition to its economic and commercial component, introduces an innovative political dimension that should allow the ACP-EU Community, united in its proclaimed democratic values with a great capacity for influence in its pursuit of a just, balanced, free, lawful, peaceful world where prosperity is reasonably divided and shared, to burst onto the world stage. However, all the confidence expressed in the report is naturally conditional upon our responsibility to take advantage of the provisions of the agreement. Hence the appeals of the rapporteur, first of all, to those Member States who do not consider the ratification of the Cotonou agreement a priority. She also calls on the European Parliament to give the implementation of the Cotonou agreement the attention it deserves. She calls upon those MEPs who act as Parliament’s representatives in the ACP-EU Joint Assembly to act responsibly. She also calls upon us to make sure this Assembly is truly parliamentary and well balanced, and to commit ourselves to acting in a way that shows solidarity, and is fully democratic within this Assembly. The report also highlights our ACP partners’ responsibilities to achieve what is set out in the agreement so that the Joint Assembly can be set up once and for all. They will then need to adjust themselves to democratic standards, the respect for human rights and the Rule of Law, as guarantees for their own progress and to effectively contribute to a world of stability and peace which is the objective of the Cotonou agreement. –  Mr President, only yesterday the electoral commission in Chad confirmed the re-election of President Idriss Déby and the result of 67% of votes cast in his favour in the elections of 20 May. Such a percentage should not leave any doubt as to the legitimacy of his election, were it not for the accusations of irregularities made by the other candidates and the independent national election monitoring body. President Déby has himself declared to high profile media that irregularities are common in African elections and democracies, but one should not hide behind a general evil to justify internal outrages. In this case, we are not talking about technical problems, which may occur, even in the most stable democracies. We are talking about the use of coercion against opposition candidates, restrictions of the most basic freedoms that have to be set in motion during an electoral process, and finally we are talking yet again about the operation of the rule of law, which even at the most basic levels is open to question on this occasion. As so often happens, it is up to the European Parliament to appeal to the European Union bodies responsible for foreign relations to assess whether, with the confirmation of the election result, democracy in Chad is making any progress. If we are to believe some of the complaints, the facts that emerge are so serious that they are absolutely unacceptable in the twenty-first century. Yet again we must reiterate the need to use all the means at our disposal, especially those provided for in the Cotonou Agreement, and our cooperation with the community of ACP countries, particularly the African ones, to prevent and to correct highly dubious acts such as those that have just occurred in Chad. We must all ensure the success of those who are working hard to achieve decent levels of democracy, freedom and progress in those countries, as a necessary precondition for stability and prosperity to become a reality in their societies. The Group of the Party of European Socialists asks you to support their resolution and also asks the Commission to adopt their declaration so that the government of Chad can learn of our concern and the sections of Chadian society that have been edged out of the electoral process can realise that they can count on our solidarity. There will be further opportunities, particularly the legislative elections announced for March 2002, which must not be thwarted, to create a real framework of democratic coexistence in Chad. –  Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the activity of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly in 2000 and this is perhaps a rather different type of report to those produced in previous years on this issue. Firstly, because specific events occurred in 2000 which have had an effect on the workings and even the very identity of the Joint Assembly, but also because we deliberately wanted to give the report a somewhat innovative approach. In addition, therefore, to the traditional reminder of hard data on the activity of the Assembly for that year, we opened a more politically-charged debate on the role of the Assembly itself and, what is more, on how we should view the role of the Members of the European Parliament in the Assembly. In addition to any formal or legal considerations, we feel that as Members of this Parliament who are also members of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly, we are not there as individuals. We are delegates and therefore our activity within that forum must be guided and then judged by our Parliament. We therefore believe that, from a democratic point of view, it is crucial that this annual report on what has taken place in the Joint Assembly should cease being a largely routine and bureaucratic process and become a balance of accounts presented to the European Parliament by its delegates. Similarly, the debate on this annual report should be an opportunity for Parliament to guide the work of its representatives in the Joint Parliamentary Assembly over the coming months. Looking at the events of 2000, what marked the year was the approval, following extremely lengthy negotiations, of the Cotonou Agreement, which ratifies the legitimacy in law of the Assembly and brings it up to the category of Joint Parliamentary Assembly. Above all, 2000 marks a turning point in the European Union’s cooperation with the ensemble of the 77 States from Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific that are already associated members. The effective implementation of the Treaty is also, undoubtedly, the most significant development this year for the Assembly. The catalogue of events is described in some detail in the report. There was the Abuja Summit in Nigeria in March and the meeting in Brussels in October, together with the new designation of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly. Important events took place at those meetings, such as the general report on globalisation, the hearing on AIDS and the notable presence of President Josselin and of Commissioners Lamy and Nielson. An unfortunate problem was also encountered, however: the presence of representatives of the European Parliament in plenary, and especially in the working groups, was lower than we had hoped for. Amongst the challenges that remain, the Treaty provides for the mobilisation of civil society, which is the collaborative fabric required for its very implementation, and here we need to consider how we can ensure that this is achieved efficiently and without confusion, putting each person in the right position for him or for her. Another challenge is to exploit the Assembly’s huge potential for coordinating positions of the associates of the ACP and the European Union, in order to make the process of cooperation and development and the Treaty itself more effective and perhaps also to establish positions of consensus for approaches in other forums such as the WTO, for example. One of the prime conditions for achieving this is for the European Parliament to assume full responsibility for work in the Joint Assembly and to give this work the priority it deserves. I shall conclude by saying that in the report’s conclusions, I included a few lines on how I think the Joint Parliamentary Assembly should operate. Of course, decisions on this fall to the Assembly itself, but Parliament has the responsibility to state its criteria in order to guide the work of its Members in this Joint Assembly. These guidelines coincide almost entirely with the proposals that have been agreed in the Assembly’s own working group on how it should operate. Finally, I would add that our motion for a resolution includes many amendments by Members of various groups, which all make a valuable contribution, as well as two further amendments, which were tabled in the debate in Parliament by the European People’s Party. I would ask you to vote in favour of the former. The latter seeks to remove a paragraph that was added to my initial proposal in an amendment by Mr Van den Bos, of the Liberal Group, which was approved in committee. I think that this paragraph addresses a series of important issues which could be debated by the ACP-EU Assembly’s own committees and I do not think it would be useful to remove it at this stage. It does not hold us to anything and does provide a range of interesting ideas. I would therefore ask the PPE Group to withdraw this amendment and, if they do not do so, I would ask you to vote against it. To conclude, I wish to thank the secretariat of Parliament’s Committee on Development and Cooperation for their considerable cooperation. I should also like to thank my fellow members of that committee and all of you for your attention and for your votes, which I hope will be favourable tomorrow. –  We would like to once again express our friendship and personal respect for the President-in-Office of the Council, but I have to say that we think it was a mistake to ratify the common position. We believe that the common position is a negative thing, that everybody in Cuba, from the authorities to the opposition and the church perceives it to be negative, and that practically all the ambassadors from EU States in Havana consider it to be ineffectual and even counterproductive. I certainly believe that this ratification of the common position has acted as a major stumbling block for the reopened process of dialogue that we, like you, wanted and looked upon with a great deal of hope. My question is this: How will the Council respond to the repeated requests from the ACP countries for Cuba to be treated like all of the other countries and for it to be offered a guaranteed place as a signatory to the Cotonou agreement? This is the question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with no disrespect, that we will be asking once again in Cape Town, in the Joint Assembly, in the presence of all the speakers from ACP countries, who have unanimously asked on numerous occasions for Cuba to be included as a member of their community. Thank you and, once again, welcome, Mr de Miguel. – Mr President, it is appropriate today for the European Parliament to turn its attention to Paraguay and express its solidarity with the Paraguayan people, who still face considerable difficulties and uncertainties in their effort to consolidate a democratic regime. The history of Paraguay is one of the saddest and most unjust in Latin America. For those of us who for many years have sided with the resistance in that country, it is painful to remember how, in the 60s and 70s, there were at least three good reasons to feel sorrow. Paraguay was probably the only country in the world whose population had been practically exterminated during wars with its two neighbours, Argentina and Brazil. Only women and some old men and children survived those wars. At that time, Paraguay was the only country which had considerably more population outside its borders than inside, with exiles, outcasts and emigrants of every type. Lastly, Paraguay held the tragic record of suffering the longest dictatorship in the whole of Latin America, headed by General Stroessner. That dictatorship displayed the most extraordinary cruelty in its repression of any opposition, and at the same time its dictator and his entourage was enormously corrupt, with their monopoly on big business and, in particular, smuggling. The Paraguayan people never gave in. For decades the fight continued, embodied in the February revolution, and the so-called , one of the brief moments of democracy and hope, which was quickly stamped out, firstly by force of arms, but then kept down at a very high cost in death, prison, exile and enormous suffering. Despite the harshness of the repression, the internal decay of the authoritarian regime and the growing mobilisation of civil society eventually forced a transition which opened the way to progress and representative democracy. This has been the situation over recent years, although the threat of regression and attempts at destabilisation have not disappeared. In fact there has been constant agitation from local bosses and members of the military who are nostalgic, not so much for power, but rather for the possibility of making money which that power used to offer them. We have therefore witnessed a constant tension between civil democratic forces and sinister personalities, the main example of which is General Lino Oviedo, consummate purveyor of repeated coups d’états, professional destabiliser, shady businessman and even alleged promoter of assassinations such as that of the Vice-President of the Republic, Luis María Argaña. In this context, and with Oviedo under arrest in Brazil, the resolution we are voting on in Parliament is a great opportunity. It condemns the enemies of freedom and the destabilisers, it asks Paraguay’s neighbours for respect and cooperation, so that the consolidation of Paraguayan democracy may become a reality and, above all, it underlines the European Union’s commitment to the people and democratic institutions of Paraguay. – Mr President, the recent Euro-African Summit has given rise to concern, even vexation, but at the same time, it has also given rise to satisfaction and hope. There was concern about the way the Summit was being managed – it did not even appear in the programme for the current six-month period – with moments of confusion, suspense and abundant rumour-mongering, which were incompatible with the seriousness and rigour which should be expected from the European Union given the importance of this historic meeting, the first to be held at the highest level between European and African leaders. There was concern and vexation as a result of the way in which the European Parliament remained in the margins of the Summit process, partly due to our indifference. This marginalisation, and that of the African parliaments, demonstrated a considerable incoherence on the part of the organisers. It is incoherent to go around preaching good government, democracy and the rule of law while, in practice, ignoring the parliamentary institution which is essential for the realisation of those principles. There was vexation on discovering that certain NGO meetings – the fora of civil society – which should have taken place in Cairo, sponsored by the European Commission itself, could not take place because of communication problems or the veto, still unclarified, of some part or other of the organisation of the Summit. However, I said at the beginning that there were also positive aspects to this Cairo Summit which were cause for satisfaction and hope. There was satisfaction at the fact that the conference was able to take place at all – which in itself is a great thing – and we should therefore congratulate the Portuguese Presidency and Commissioner Nielson, whose efforts helped to overcome the difficulties, intrigues and lazy defeatism of many people who assumed that this summit would be suspended, although it was going to fill an unjustifiable vacuum in the external relations of the European Union. There was also satisfaction with regard to some of the tangible results of the conference in areas such as the cancellation of debt, the elimination of anti-personnel mines and the return of cultural goods pillaged by colonial powers. Europe must now also commit itself to the prevention and resolution of armed conflicts, the provision of humanitarian aid for famines and the treatment of illnesses such as Aids or malaria which decimate the African population. However, a Summit of this type should be an important source of hope, especially if it is not an isolated event but a first step in a process which we must set to work on immediately, in the expectation, furthermore, that relations between the European Union and Africa are going to change shape. I am not impressed by the current pattern of African partners requesting aid in order to resolve their problems, as a result of which the European partners merely grant a part of that aid and little more. We must go much further, much further than mere cooperation with development, which, by definition, is an unfair form of cooperation. We must create platforms for dialogue and cooperation in which Europeans and Africans can discuss common problems and put together joint strategies in order to act in a coordinated fashion within the world order, in which we must all play a principal role, in equality, dignity and responsibility. Thus, that world order will have to be more egalitarian, shared, cohesive, democratic and compatible with the values which we in the European Union proclaim as our distinguishing marks. Mr President, taking this approach, we will vote in favour of the good resolution with which this debate will conclude. –  Mr President, I should like to invite the House to support the report by my colleague, Maria Carrilho, which aims at improving a regulation which we consider important. Europe must do all it can to help displaced people, in this case in Latin America and Asia. We must help those who are forced to leave their places of origin for reasons of extreme poverty, wars, various situations of repression and force, and internal conflicts in which civil power crumbles and democracy as the normal way of coexisting is scorned. The European Union must make a political effort at an international level to encourage countries to adopt a flexible interpretation of the Geneva Conventions and also to promote new instruments of international law to protect these internal refugees. In our capacity as donors, the European Union Member States and the European Union itself must not hesitate to use every possible means to ensure that the countries with which we cooperate guarantee the safety of their nationals and respect for their human rights. Of course, taking on the responsibilities of the Union in the field that we are concerned with here must be matched by a consistent financial effort, which should already be reflected in the budgets for 2002. Alongside the immediate, urgent need for political and financial action to help the uprooted victims, however, we must not lose sight of the need to attack the very roots of the problem. Our medium and long-term efforts must be directed at the eradication of poverty and the consolidation of the rule of law and democracy everywhere, which can foster development and social justice. In other words, prosperity and stability so that all can live with dignity in their own lands. – Mr President, our initial reaction is to express our sincere condolences to the families of the victims and their countrymen, but we must also immediately re-state our commitment to show solidarity with the affected countries, taking care that this solidarity is shown through immediate, generous and effective action. The principal role was initially taken by our own European Community Humanitarian Office (ECHO) and it appears that the Commission acted with the necessary speed by means of this office. But the action of the European Union should not stop at this point and we should make a significant contribution to the reconstruction of everything which has been destroyed or damaged by Hurricane Michelle. A large proportion of our efforts will be included within the Reconstruction Plan for Central America and within the framework of the Union’s agreements with Honduras and with Nicaragua. This is where we fall down, due to the pitiful lack of a similar agreement with the Republic of Cuba. This is something that we are continually denouncing here in this House. It makes no sense that Cuba, for whom, amongst other things, the Member States of the European Union include their main economic, commercial and tourism partners, should be the only country in Latin America with which the European Union has not signed a cooperation agreement. For this reason, at the present time, the European Union is restricted to acting almost exclusively within the field of humanitarian and emergency aid. We in this House would ask the Commission to show a high degree of flexibility when considering the suitability of projects which, in addition to this type of aid, also contribute to surmounting the damage and helping with the reconstruction of those sectors that have been most affected on the island by the effects of the hurricane. It is vital that we revise the European Union’s common position on Cuba, which today is obsolete and even counterproductive, with a view to achieving the objectives that should have been pursued in 1996 when it was established, that is to say, the progress and prosperity of the Cuban people. I would also have preferred that the paragraph added by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats had requested the same from Cuba as is requested from other countries with which the European Union cooperates. In any case, I do not think that the situation in Cuba is as gloomy as those who are determined to criticise that country would have us believe. Mr President, we hope that the dialogue, without preconditions and without the exclusion of any particular subject from the agenda, that appears to have been re-initiated with the meeting this Monday in New York between the President of the Council and the Cuban Chancellor, will soon bear fruit and led to the signing of a cooperation treaty that will benefit Cuba and that will allow the European Union to act under normal conditions, with a greater degree of efficiency and with more influence in their relations with this country. – Mr President, like Max van den Berg in his report, we are in favour of the Commission’s communication on the links between the European Union’s actions in emergency situations in the countries of the South and the Community’s development cooperation policy. In committee, there was some agreement with the communication we are assessing here, but there are also shortcomings which the proposals contained in the resolution we will vote on later are aimed at resolving. This resolution includes a series of concerns and recommendations aimed at improving, in practice, the European Union’s action in the field under discussion, which we hope will be accepted. The whole of this debate demonstrates that there is a dialectical relationship between humanitarian aid, which the European Union mobilises in order to deal with emergency situations resulting from all types of disaster, and the aid which is regularly granted with a view to promoting the development of a particular region or country. That is to say that programmes aimed at rehabilitation or development must include within them elements aimed to preventing conflicts and preventing, where possible, so-called ‘natural’ disasters and their worst consequences. Furthermore, actions in cases of emergency must contribute, where possible, to the eventual rehabilitation and development of the region in question. Today we are recognising that there are considerable dysfunctions within the European Union’s actions in terms of the transition from one area to another. The majority are due to the distribution between administrative bodies and the distribution of competences as well as deficient coordination between the services which are involved in programming and the implementation of those actions. Another obstacle is the bureaucratic complexity of many mechanisms employed for this purpose. What seems more serious to us is that there are countries with which the European Union still has no cooperation agreement, such as Cuba, which prevent us from acting in situations of emergency or prevent humanitarian aid from having the desired continuity in the field of development cooperation. Mr President-in-Office of the Council and dear friend, I am not in the mood for arguing about a choice of words. A few months ago there were certain actions by the Cuban authorities which the European Union reacted to with measures which you thought were appropriate and which I thought were disproportionate, unfair and absurd – particularly those adopted in the field of cultural cooperation. I do not know what you want to call these measures. You say they are not sanctions. I would like to find another word. I do not know if they are restrictions, reprisals, pressure, coercion, cultural blockade – as the Cubans themselves say. I would like you to tell us what word we should use so that we can really receive an answer to what we are asking. Apart from that question, I would reiterate the question which I have put: do you believe that the measures adopted in the field of cultural cooperation help or harm Cubans and Europeans? And, secondly, does the President-in-Office of the Council believe that the conduct of our civil society, participating en masse in activities which have been, if not boycotted, at least hindered by the European Union, is a way for civil society to raise doubts about the Union’s policy with regard to Cuba? –  Mr President, aid which is conditional on the acquisition of goods or services originating in the donor country has repeatedly been condemned as an immoral and inefficient practice by recipient countries and the worst-affected NGOs on the one hand, and on the other by the majority of agencies involved in development issues. Among the latter are many intergovernmental organisations. In 1996, the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) published a strategy document entitled ‘Shaping the 21st Century: The Contribution of Development Cooperation’. This publication discredited the practice of imposing conditions on development assistance, showing it to be incompatible with the new guiding philosophy for initiatives in this field. Since then, that philosophy has gradually taken on a definite, solid form through a series of important declarations and resolutions, such as the DAC’s recommendation, approved in May 2001, demanding that aid to the least-developed countries should be untied. More importantly, the international community adopted the Monterrey Consensus at the International Conference on Financing for Development in March 2002, committing itself to supporting initiatives designed to phase out conditional aid. In its communication of November 2002, entitled ‘Untying: Enhancing the Effectiveness of Aid’, the Commission responds to just those promises made at Monterrey. It goes even further than the DAC’s resolution, since it extends the need to untie aid to all developing countries, not just to least-developed countries. It also extends the untying of aid to all aid sectors, including food aid. All these recommendations are still gaining ground, under pressure from lobbying by the general public and by NGOs. They have not, however, made a great impression on a large number of countries, which are continuing to grant tied aid, either openly or covertly. This is unfortunately also true of various EU Member States. The result is a significant discrepancy between the policy advocated by Parliament and implemented by the Commission on the one hand, and the policy put into practice by some Member States, such as Spain under José María Aznar, on the other. It comes as no surprise that the report presented by Mr Fernández Martín, a  deputy in my country, should list a series of initial misgivings about the progressive approach urged by the Commission, an approach favourable to the untying of development cooperation policy. In the rapporteur’s favour, however, it should be said that he showed understanding and flexibility by accepting the amendments tabled to his first proposal, which have yielded substantial improvements in his final text. That text includes a motion for a resolution approved by the Parliamentary Committee on Development and Cooperation. We will be reasonably happy to vote for it, since it favours the complete untying of development aid, both European Union aid and aid granted by each and every one of the Member States. – Mr President, genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and acts of aggression involving actions against third countries are the four types of crime which could be tried in the international criminal court. The four Geneva Conventions of 1949 for the protection of victims of armed conflicts already oblige States to pursue and try the perpetrators of such crimes. The plan for an international criminal court is another step forward in the creation of an international humanitarian legal system. I am reminded here that the preparation period for the statute of the international criminal court was long and tense. I had the honour of participating in that process on behalf of the world parliamentary community in my capacity as the then President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. I can therefore bear witness to the fact that, in that very complicated negotiation, many concessions had to be made in order to draw up a text which, although falling short of our initial aspirations, achieved the necessary consensus and was finally able to come into play as an acceptably effective instrument. It would be irresponsible today not to publicly recognise our disappointment at the fact that, a year and a half later, only 91 States have signed it and just five or six have ratified it when – as Mrs Schörling has said – 60 ratifications are necessary for the court to come into effect. Therefore, by means of the resolution we are about to approve, the European Parliament is coherently maintaining the support which it always expressed for this initiative. However, to sum up, what we are going to do here in these final debates of the year and the century is to publicly and formally recognise that this issue is still outstanding, and that we also have the commitment to persevere with our efforts to fulfil the objective which we set on approving the court’s statute, also urging the Council and the Commission to act to this end. In all these actions, we Socialists are guided by the awareness that, in a world which is being globalised, it is essential that the Rule of Law is globalised as well and this is what we should work towards. – Mr President, last Monday the Socialist Group tried to include a motion for a resolution in the agenda of this plenary sitting which would have highlighted the 50th anniversary of the Geneva Conventions, demonstrated the commitment of the European Parliament to the principles of international humanitarian law and expressed our support for the International Committee of the Red Cross. As a result of a mix-up amongst the Groups in this Parliament, and we think that this was more a matter of procedure than a disagreement over the content of the motion, it was not included in this debate. In later sittings, however, we will insist on attention being given to the importance of this issue, which has been well highlighted in the reply of the representative of the Council. In fact, the basic principles of international humanitarian law, which are contained in the Geneva Conventions, are values which must be maintained as a basis for European construction and promoted through institutional activities. In any event, the European Union must be an agent for peace and international humanitarian law and it must assist the ICRC in its task of guaranteeing that this law is upheld. Furthermore, the European Union must provide as much aid as possible to relieve the suffering of victims and we must, at last, contribute to the education of our citizens in terms of respect for peace. For all these reasons, on the 50th anniversary of the Geneva Conventions, at a time when we must all commit ourselves – Parliament, Commission and Council – to promoting awareness of international humanitarian law and supporting the organisations responsible for its protection, does the Council propose any specific initiative to promote the knowledge of international humanitarian law amongst the citizens of the Union? – Mr President, if we had known that this afternoon speaking time was duty-free we would have all taken the opportunity not only to speak for longer but to express ourselves in a more detailed and precise way, worthy of the subject. In my group we are against the inequalities between the North and the South. We are also against the inequalities between the time that one group or speaker has and the amount of time which others have been given. For the future I urge the presidency to confer with the groups if another heaven-sent opportunity like this appears, so that everyone has an opportunity to profit from the generosity of the presidency. – Mr President, the trial conducted against 140 citizens in Equatorial Guinea is a sham that the European Union cannot keep quiet about. The totalitarian regime in Malabo has tried to get rid of those who could represent a democratic alternative. It is true that a few years ago the process would have meant that the opponents would have been physically eliminated and it is also true that the fact that the country has joined the ACP Community as a signatory of the Cotonou Agreement has led the regime to act with more respect for the standards of the rule of law, holding a trial and allowing international observers to attend it. This revealed a grotesque set-up in terms of its lack of legal legitimacy. There was talk of a plot to overthrow the regime and even to assassinate the Head of State, without putting forward the slightest bit of evidence, with brutally tortured witnesses and defendants, a public prosecution service that raised its initial petition of eight death sentences to eighteen, and a final verdict which, although not so extreme, punished the main people accused with long prison sentences, thus removing them as potential adversaries in any electoral battle. We were struck by the contrast between the incompetence of the officials of the dictatorship, judges, public prosecution, police, etc. and the admirable dignity of the defendants and defence lawyers. It is extraordinary that, despite the ill treatment inflicted on them, there was not a single witness or defendant who confirmed in the trial the statements that had been extracted from them in police stations. I would first like to express our repulsion at such a corrupt and anachronistic regime and our solidarity and confidence in the democratic future of Equatorial Guinea. In that country there are people of unquestionable bravery and convictions who undoubtedly represent a better future for their people. This future is what the European Union needs to support, without, of course, falling into judgements that betray our own values. For now, there are clauses in the Cotonou Agreement that we should activate in order to make it known in Malabo that practices such as the trial I mentioned are simply incompatible with its association with the European Union. –  Thank you Mr President. I should make it clear to the House that we will go on asking questions until the underlying problem and suffering cease to be an issue. We shall certainly continue to press for answers until we receive something better than mere bureaucratic responses. I would go so far as to say that the latter are unworthy of the person providing them. The five prisoners in question received extraordinarily heavy sentences following trials deemed by US witnesses and legal experts to lack all legal validity. These trials were condemned as show trials. Further, human rights are being violated twice over. Not only are the prisoners being denied their rights, their families are too. The latter are being denied the fundamental right to visit their relatives. I would like to ask whether the Council is concerned about the human rights of these particular Cubans or whether it is only concerned about the human rights of those other Cubans who have been so much in the limelight over the last few months. Can a selective approach to human rights in Cuba really be justified? Should the approach really vary, depending on the identity of the violator of human rights and the identity of the victim of violation? Is the President-in-Office of the Council aware that the credibility and the authority of the European Union depend on it acting consistently? In this case, the Union’s approach has been entirely inconsistent. Nonetheless, all this could appear to be of minor importance in the broader context of the whole outrageous situation in Guantanamo Bay. –  Mr President, I have voted against the resolution on Cuba, not because I disagree with what is said in it about the situation in Cuba, but because I disagree with what is not said. I feel that it is intellectually and politically unjustifiable to assess Cuba’s position without considering the unremitting aggression instigated by the United States and endured by the island for the last 40 years. That aggression has been made manifest in all kinds of acts, including terrorist acts, which have been condemned by the international community. This policy of aggression has intensified recently, giving rise to justifiable concerns on the part of the Cuban authorities, especially now that pre-emptive war has risen to the status of a White House doctrine and the invasion of Iraq has taken place. The threat of virtual war, endured by Cuba for so many years, has thus grown into the threat of real war. We might criticise some of the reactions to this threat — we have done so — but that does not mean we should not try to understand them. The Cubans are convinced of two things, and I agree with them: the first is that the European Union treats Cuba differently from any other country in the same economic circumstances as Cuba, and even from any other country with a similar regime to Cuba. The Cubans are also convinced, as I am, that this discriminatory policy is not a matter of coincidence. Rather, it is encouraged by the United States. I believe it is essential to rethink our policy towards Cuba, with the immediate aim of regaining credibility and trust among all the Cubans with whom we have dealings. That does not mean we should hide our worries, our criticisms and our hopes of seeing the Cuban people progress. It does, however, mean that we should express those thoughts with the same respect, independence and coherence we show other countries, from Israel to Morocco, Russia to Latvia, Argentina to Guatemala, and even from China to the United States. Only if the European Union restores trust and credibility, shows understanding and solidarity, will it have the necessary influence to help things get better in and with Cuba. Resolutions like this one do nothing to help us in that task of restoring credibility and trust, either in Cuba itself or in the rest of the developing world, for which Cuba is still an important point of reference. – Mr President, during the years when I was President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I had the opportunity to support many Croatians in their efforts towards the freedom and prosperity that they, like other peoples on our continent, identified with their integration into the European institutions. In the 20th Century, Croatia has gone through the same stages that many of us that are now part of the European Union had to go through. In the last 60 years, Croatia experienced a particularly awful form of fascism. A fascism like that in Germany, Austria, Italy and Spain: a characteristically European path, therefore. Then the Croats, through a particularly militant anti-fascist resistance, freed themselves from Nazism. This journey of resistance is part of the best of European heritage. After a new and long period of authoritarianism came the outbreak of independence, led by nationalist forces and others based more on purely democratic aspirations. In the struggle between them the Croatians had to go through a new chapter of ultra-nationalist authoritarianism, supported paradoxically by their Serbian counterparts, through the occupation of part of their territory and through the war. With peace and the consolidation of democracy, the Croatian people have chosen the path of moderation and tolerance, freedom and respect. And they have clearly identified that choice with their full participation in the project for European construction. The entry of Croatia into the Council of Europe made a decisive contribution to the positive developments that have been taking place in the country, and was a step further along the road to the stabilisation and association agreement with the European Union, which we are debating today and which we want to become a reality as soon as possible. This agreement is nothing if not a step further towards Croatia’s accession as a full member of the European Union, and there is no place on that path for any conditions other than those that the other applicant countries have to comply with. The Croatians have a right to that accession, but, moreover, I think it is obvious that the European project would be incomplete as long as Croatia was missing from the mosaic, along with its other neighbours from the former Yugoslavia. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposals put forward by our friend Mr Baltas and we commit ourselves to continuing to support Croatia in its efforts to become one more member of the European Union. – I congratulate the President for domestic reasons. I would now like to speak, on behalf of the Socialist Group, in this debate which follows what we consider to be a satisfactory statement from the Council on the Geneva Convention. I will begin with an initial comment explaining the reasons why my Group tabled a resolution on this same subject during the last session of Parliament in 1999. This resolution was never debated for reasons which we will not go into here. It seems to us highly appropriate to speak in the European Parliament of regulations which have enriched humanity’s legal heritage and we should take every opportunity to recall and strengthen the validity of those instruments given the protection they offer and the rights they safeguard. Another reason for adopting a resolution such as the one we are tabling is the fact that much of the work of the European institutions is aimed at finding balance and equality, and these are concepts which are almost completely incompatible with armed conflict. The main victims of conflicts – children, women and the population in general – are the first to be threatened and to suffer and we must make their protection one of the priority objectives of our action. The more we do to prevent violations of international humanitarian law, the more we remind other states – by means of all the opportunities which our foreign relations offer us – of the need to ratify and respect the Geneva Convention and the more we will be doing to protect these weakest groups. The more suffering we prevent, the less action we will then have to take to repair the great damage caused by war. What more can be done therefore to increase compliance with international humanitarian law and thus limit the suffering of the victims? For example, we can spread the knowledge of this law, particularly throughout society itself, amongst young people, within mass organisations and also in the armed forces and security services. Above all, we must, through education, instil a passion for peace amongst our citizens. In this respect, the European Union must be a prime agent for peace, but it must also provide strong support for the efforts of those organisations which the international community has entrusted with the responsibility of protecting the victims of conflicts and defending their rights. Amongst these organisations, we should highlight the International Committee of the Red Cross. All the institutions of the European Union must decisively support the work of the ICRC, because their role is quite simply indispensable. Lastly, I do not consider it acceptable to say, as the Commission did in its response to my question a couple of months ago, that it does not have the competences nor the resources for actions aimed at promoting international humanitarian law, thereby demonstrating that its approach is basically bureaucratic and that its sensitivities are very different from those expressed by the Council in reply to another question in which I expressed a concern of this type. It is also different from the sensitivity demonstrated today by the Council in its intervention. In this area, the institutions of the European Union – including the Commission of course – have a generic responsibility, because this is a question of spreading and promoting essential values which, furthermore, are the same as those which underpin our European project. For all these reasons, Mr President, I ask you to support the resolution tabled, which contains all the main elements of the proposal presented by the Socialist Group at the end of last year. – Mr President, in this long peace process in the Middle East, we feel as if we are on a kind of roller coaster. Time and time again we feel as if we are slowly and painfully climbing a slope and then, when it seems as if we are about to touch the sky, we plummet sharply back to square one. This is a hellish and never-ending rise and fall – and it is also a bit like the legend of Sisyphus – which threatens to sap the strength and even the hope of almost everyone. At the current time – and despite having heard optimistic words – one has the impression that we are once again at the bottom of the curve, with an Oslo Process which has been forsaken by many, with the conflict on the ground at an impasse and with elections in Israel which promise to offer an outcome which is far from favourable to peace. Nevertheless, it is now that we have to recharge the batteries of our confidence and increase our efforts. Today this process can be summed up in two affirmations: firstly, we cannot lose sight of our inescapable objective, which is peace in the region, a peace which must be established and consolidated on the basis of an acceptance by all sides of the rules of international law and decisions of the UN Security Council: and, secondly, Europe must once and for all, in attempting to resolve this conflict, assume the responsibility that befits our political influence, our values and our interests. It is neither dignified nor coherent to continue to renounce the leading role which we should play, restricting ourselves to being, rather than negotiators, mere spectators to what the United States does or does not do. We are, unfortunately, still in the old situation of ‘paying but not playing’. The actions of Ambassador Moratinos have been magnificent but, in order to be more effective, he needs political support which, unfortunately, he is not being given. I believe that the Union should no longer delay in taking a leading role, and it is not enough to make statements but it should be precisely defined and filled with content including firm economic and political commitments. – Mr President, I am taking the floor at this point to express my support, and that of the Socialist Group, for the work and the conclusions regarding the proposals presented today to this Parliament, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, by my good friend and colleague Professor Manuel Medina, in the well-founded hope that this Assembly will fully approve the proposals in question. Of course our intention is not simply to support a colleague. In reality our position – now through this intervention and later through our vote – is that of Spaniards and Europeans, and perhaps even more as Spanish and European Socialists, who are expressing their solidarity with the Canary Islands and their men and women. I am speaking of a solidarity which the Canary Islands require in a specific and particular way, precisely because of the specific and particular characteristics of their geography and history. Let it be clear therefore that what we want is to give a little more to the Canaries, to compensate for adverse conditions, and thereby prevent a situation where they have a little less than the other Europeans. The rapporteur, Manuel Medina, has explained in a rigorous and full way the legal arguments which explain how the Canaries has been defended for centuries, within a Spanish context, by means of different mechanisms which allowed those distant islands to overcome the negative circumstances which I spoke of earlier, and, with the skill, tenacity and efforts of their men and women, firstly resist and then gradually build reasonably modern and prosperous societies. We were aware of the problems of the Canary Islands when we negotiated the accession of our country to the European Community and the successive Treaties, up until Amsterdam, and the constant concern to always take that special situation into account was reflected in the special Protocol 2 of the Act of Accession of Spain and Portugal, back in 1985, in Council Regulation (EEC) 1911/91, which approved the said Protocol, and in section 2 of article 299 of the EC Treaty, which describes the outermost regions of the Union, with special mention of the Canary Islands and lays down the very flexibility in the application of general rules in certain vulnerable cases which we are discussing today. It was precisely Protocol 2, which I referred to earlier, which, applying traditional formulas to the new rules, established the so-called “APIM” (Tax on Production and Exports), a modest duty applied to certain products entering the Canary Islands, many of which originate from the Spanish Peninsular and others from other States. At the moment there is a process under way which will lead to the negotiation between the Spanish Government and the Commission, with a view to amending the said Regulation (EEC) 1911/91, which specifically regulates the APIM in question. The concern which this amendment has caused in the Canary Islands – and which we are recognising here – has increased as a result of a certain lack of confidence in the ability of the government of my country to appreciate the true nature and gravity of this problem and in its desire to tackle that problem in the said negotiation with the Commission. In reality there are only three alternatives. The first is the complete removal of the APIM, which would have very negative effects for the many small and medium-sized businesses on the islands which, although they make little profit from their production, survive thanks to the fact that similar products arriving from outside are taxed, and it is therefore still viable to continue producing them in the Canaries. The second alternative is less harsh but ultimately just as harmful. It would consist of eliminating the APIM gradually until it disappears completely after a few years, perhaps maintaining them partially for a few products. The third solution is the one which Professor Medina proposes and which we understand that the Canary Islands requires and wants, the one which this Parliament will probably vote for in a few moments. Based on the legal considerations of the EC Treaty, we argue that the APIM be kept as it is for now, and that it be consolidated within the obligatory reform of Regulation (EEC) 1911/91. We hope that this Parliament is up to the job and does not disappoint our fellow citizens … . – Mr President, you have heard the Commissioner’s request that the vote be delayed, that is, that it should not take place tomorrow. I must say that this situation disturbs me, because we are all working very quickly and the Commission seems to be saying that, since we are in a hurry, we must drive the car very slowly. On principle, I am always willing to discuss issues again. Firstly, I must thank the spokespeople of the different Groups for their support, although I believe that they are lending their support to a very modest position by the committee, almost a critical type of support, because the Committee on Development and Cooperation should have gone much further than it decided. I repeat: in principle, I would not be opposed, but I do not believe that Parliament is in favour of delaying the vote. I do not feel at the moment that Parliament wishes to delay the vote. That would mean inviting the Commissioner to the Committee on Development next week and postponing our decision until June. I would not be opposed to that and I do not reject that possibility. But I must say, Mr President, that it worries me profoundly that Parliament should have to take responsibility for prolonging something which, in fact, has been prolonged by all parties. Everyone has prolonged this process: the Council and the Commission. Now the pressure is on Parliament because we have been told that, if we do not accept the positions of the Council and of the Commission, the development programmes will come to a standstill, which would be terrible. I agree that it would be terrible if the cooperation programmes came to a standstill. However, Mr President, we should take note of who is being pressurised and who really bears the responsibility for prolonging this process and taking it to a third reading. Therefore, Mr President, I would ask you to examine whether it would be proper to consult Parliament tomorrow on whether or not to vote on our positions. If we do vote on them tomorrow, it will fall to the Council and the Commission to ensure that the situation is not prolonged, which would create serious difficulties for South Africa and our own dignity. We must ask ourselves whether we are here solely to accept, at any time and under any kind of pressure, what the Council or the Commission proposes. If that is the case, then Parliament is unnecessary and all our dignity as an institution has been lost. I am therefore not opposed to the vote being delayed for another month. I believe that it would be very dangerous to prolong this process, but, in any event, we must not take responsibility. The responsibility falls to those people who have dragged it out until now and who seem to want it to last even longer, perhaps because the issue of the designations of origin of wines and alcoholic drinks is being negotiated. – Madam President, in point 38 of the Minutes, which is Questions to the Council, I have noticed that there is an error in the Spanish and German versions, at least, in that Question 9 is missing. Question 9 has been omitted in printing. However, it does mention the speakers on Question 9, but we must correct the fact that it passes from Question 8 to Question 10 without mention of Question 9, which I directed yesterday at the Council. The intervention which appears here by Mr Martínez Martínez is clearly not related to Question 8, but rather to Question 9, which has not been included. – Mr President, Europe’s coherence and credibility are at stake in Kosovo. So too is the confidence of our own citizens and the people of the Balkans in the European institutions as well as the stability of the region itself. Our action in Kosovo a couple of years ago was not exactly a paragon of speed or unity. For too many months it was not a paragon of efficiency either. Our people reacted with disgust to Milosevic’s odious policy which resulted in oppression and terror for the Albanian Kosovars and in their mass exodus. Public opinion in our own countries demanded determined action such as was eventually taken. Military intervention of that nature was likely to generate misgivings and even rejection amongst some sectors of our society and even more so in Yugoslavia itself. It is only fair to reiterate that we gave political consent to that action and that it did serve to curtail Milosevic’s excesses and the sufferings of the people of Kosovo. It also contributed to Milosevic being discredited and defeated a few months later. However, our consistency is now being put to the test. We can no longer conceal our embarrassment as we witness how some of the former victims in Kosovo are turning into tormentors. They are persecuting their fellow citizens of Serb origin and driving them out of their territory in as hateful a process of ethnic cleansing as the previous one. Those same elements are involved in armed aggression on other Serb territory with an Albanian population. At the same time, Albanian Kosovar mafias are operating as part of organised crime networks in several of our countries. It appears that they are doing so to raise funds with which to finance their guerrilla activities. All of this is incompatible with the objectives pursued by the European Union and we must not tolerate it. The European Union is contributing very substantial sums to the rebuilding of Kosovo. Nevertheless, that contribution must be strictly conditional on respect for human rights, recognition of existing borders adopted by the international community and the cessation of all military and terrorist operations by Albanian Kosovars within their territory or beyond it. The stability of Yugoslavia, Albania, Macedonia and the rest of the region may depend on our consistency and firmness. It could hinge on our stifling the extremist and expansionist action of certain elements of the Albanian Kosovar population. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my question does not relate either to the trial of the Cuban prisoners or to their current detention. My question essentially relates to respect for the rights of families, who are being prevented from seeing these prisoners, despite the fact that these rights are enshrined in international law and in the law of the United States. It relates specifically to two women, who for more than four years have not been authorised to visit their husbands, and to a very painful situation which is once again being reported on in the media: today one of the wives has once again been refused a visa to enter the United States in order to see her husband. What I want to know is whether the Council considers this to be an issue worthy of its attention or not. – Mr President, the Minister’s reply leads me to ask her whether she is aware that, a few weeks ago, a delegation from the European Parliament visited Cuba. During that visit, our colleagues spoke to the Cuban authorities, to the church, to NGOs and to the eleven resident Ambassadors of the countries of the Union. All of them, apart from one Ambassador, agreed that the common position is useless, because it does not contribute to the progress of the Cubans nor to the progress of relations between the European Union and Cuba. Therefore, the Minister, President-in-Office of the Council, must know that that common position has been surpassed, it is obsolete and an anachronism. It is unjust and scandalous that Cuba is the only country in Latin America with which the European Union does not have any cooperation agreement, which puts it in a difficult position – in the disastrous situation it is in at the moment – in terms of helping with the reconstruction of what was destroyed by Hurricane Michelle. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to continue on the same issue: I do not understand why the bilateral nature of the issue means that Europe has to remain silent over its policy of defending human rights, which is our policy, as Mr Antonione tells us. We are looking at a situation in which not only have prisoners been tried in a manner which we believe to be entirely arbitrary, unjust and contrary to the Rule of Law, but also in which the wives of those prisoners are being denied the right to visit their husbands. We are talking about the rights of women, regardless of their nationality or that of their husbands, who are being denied a right which, as human beings, is recognised under international law. I asked about this issue last month and now I am asking, Mr Antonione, whether or not you believe the time has come to make some representation, so that these women’s rights, which the US administration is denying them, are respected. –  Mr President, the document we are about to adopt contains, in my opinion, points that might seem contradictory. We reiterate our support for the government of South Africa but, at the same time, we ask it to make greater efforts in a number of areas, such as improving the living standards of the black population, reducing inequalities, creating employment, respecting minorities, fighting crime, and preventing and treating AIDS. By putting pressure on the South African authorities in this way, we are on the one hand covering up the responsibility which many of our countries and the so-called ‘western world’ should be assuming for the colossal injustice that the South Africans had to start from in the democratic reconstruction of their society. On the other hand, it seems that we are giving the message that those who are in power there are not doing everything they can to put an end to the problems we are pointing out, and that conclusion would be another injustice on our part. These are the priorities of the Pretoria government, and trying to overcome these problems is what makes that country an acceptable model for the whole of southern Africa. I believe it is vital to emphasise that we understand the effort that South Africa is making, often in a courageous and innovative manner, with significant victories such as the one it has just gained in the matter of AIDS, for instance, against the great pharmaceutical industry. Furthermore, however, I should like to remind you that I was the rapporteur last year when we debated the trade, development and cooperation agreement with South Africa, and I do not remember from this debate that the European Union was over-generous with our contribution to increasing the South African government’s ability to overcome all these major challenges. Now we are the ones who are demanding that they should be more effective. Of course, we must remain vigilant, but without forgetting the serious difficulties that South Africa is facing, and of course we must turn our concerns into supportive cooperation to give the South Africans a better chance to achieve their objectives, which, moreover, coincide with our own demands. – Mr President, I would like my protest at the delay in voting to be recorded in the Minutes. It was scheduled for 5.30 p.m. and there has been no explanation whatsoever. This shows a lack of respect for this Parliament and each of the Members who were here at the time set. It could only be justified by a case of  such as the President having a heart attack. If this is not the case, it seems an unjustifiable lack of respect towards the Members. – Mr President, I would like to express my agreement with the comments of the rapporteur, Mrs Kinnock. I wish to congratulate Mrs Kinnock and the negotiators who have brought this agreement into being. I would also like to congratulate everybody because finally we have secured, after an enormously long process, the agreement instrument which the European Union is going to sign with South Africa and which must give renewed and definitive impetus to relations between the two parties. I have said that the journey has been a long one. At times, it has seemed interminable. There have certainly been some complex issues, some of which, like the issue of port and sherry, continue to raise difficulties which we hope will be resolved in the coming days. But it is also true that there have been times when we have seen behaviour on the part of the European negotiators as well as certain Member States which has been excessively bureaucratic, defensive and at times nit-picking. We have also been concerned to see at times, on the part of our South African counterparts, a tendency to backtrack and to revive questions which we thought had been resolved, all of this causing the process to be delayed more and more. Mr President, with the necessary will on both sides to positively resolve any remaining loose ends or interpretations, we are arriving at the point of the parliamentary procedure for approving a rigorous text which is full of hopes and expectations. This is an agreement which has taken into account diverse interests, interests which are often difficult to reconcile and which, nevertheless, seem to be providing acceptable responses for all sides. It is an agreement which, while safeguarding and providing opportunities for European interests, must above all contribute to the economic stability and progress of South Africa as well as its political and democratic consolidation. Mr President, with the signing of this agreement and the support which it lends to the South African process, the European Union is acting coherently. It is acting coherently with regard to its duty to defend the interests of its Member States, coherently with regard to the principles of social equality and progress which we claim as our own, coherently with regard to the type of world which we wish to build together, with more balance and more solidarity, but also coherently with regard to the actions which many of us and many of our co-Europeans, for four decades, have maintained in the effort to put an end to apartheid while dreaming of the establishment of a South Africa with a regime which provides liberty and dignity for all South Africans. It would have been unforgivable if, when South Africa has dismantled that odious regime, when the South Africans have made history and shown an example by bringing about an admirable reconciliation, successfully overcoming the always difficult transition from a civil war and a dictatorship, the transition from having the profile of a freedom movement to the establishment of a pluralist, democratic and constitutional State, it would have been scandalous if, when the South Africans have not betrayed our trust in their conduct, we Europeans were not able to rise to the occasion and were to betray the trust which South Africa has put in us. Mr President, perhaps the thing that most pleases me about this agreement is the fact we have moved from rhetoric to reality and the European Parliament, which has supported and closely monitored the negotiation process, providing impetus and acting as a stimulus, should today commit itself to applying the same energy to the monitoring of its implementation and its results. –  Mr President, the Cooperation Council, which was held under the Belgian Presidency produced a series of conclusions that define the issues our representatives must defend in Monterrey. We were surprised, a few days ago, by what the President-in-Office of the Council had to say to us in the Committee on Development and Cooperation: we must do everything we can to ensure that Monterrey does not end without agreement and the European Union has to negotiate with the United States until it concludes an agreement with them. The problem is that the extraordinarily restrictive positions of the American administration will be even more restrictive if the European Union makes it known that it is willing to accept anything as long as an agreement is concluded, regardless of its content. Now that we know the content of the draft consensus drawn up by those preparing the Conference, our fears are all the more well founded. This statement contains no binding commitment on contributions and on a timetable for financing development. If these turned out to be the Conference’s conclusions, Monterrey would be just another wasted opportunity Seeking agreement must be one of our objectives at the Conference, but concluding an agreement cannot mean making concessions on commitments, such as allocating 0.7 % of GDP, or a timetable for making this contribution with which to finance development. Nor should we go back on targets on which a commitment has already been given for 2015, such as the 50% reduction in people living in conditions of extreme poverty, the two-thirds reduction in current infant mortality rates and the universal provision of primary education for all of the world’s children, boys and girls. . – Mr President, the rapporteur has been kind enough to speak positively of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, including in the report he has prepared. In the Committee on Legal Affairs we have taken a generally very positive view of the Commission’s proposal. I believe that the Commission is doing great work in updating and harmonising Community law in this area. I also believe that the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs has done great work, led by its rapporteur, by integrating and trying to modernise the new law. The report raises an important issue, which is the updating of the current asylum system and the whole immigration system. From the point of view of international law, following the First World War a series of international conventions were adopted with a view to regulating this area, based on what we might call principles of the right to individual protection in the face of political persecution of a specifically European nature. At the moment a radical transformation is taking place of the whole problem of international migration, in the sense that, as well as real political asylum, we are also seeing economic asylum. This is leading to great movements of people for which we probably do not have appropriate legal instruments. This morning, in the speech by Mr Nogueira and the last speech by Mr Volcic, reference has been made to the tragedy that took place yesterday on the island of Lanzarote, in which, once again, eleven immigrants drowned trying to reach our continent, the European Union. It is clear that there is no easy solution to this within the traditional exercise of the right to asylum because, even if we had more liberal and comprehensive legislation in this area, we could not prevent these people from leaving their countries nor offer sufficient guarantees so that they could reach their destination without endangering their lives. We are therefore facing a new phenomenon. I will repeat that, from the point of view of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the proposal represents enormous progress, but the Commission and the other European institutions will probably have to find a way to regulate the whole problem of asylum given the new dimension created by the enormous economic phenomenon of international migration linked perhaps to the process of international globalisation. – Mr President, it appears that we are currently welcoming the enlargement of the European Union, from 15 to 25 Members from 2004, and possibly, a couple of years later, to 27, and possibly to 28, 30 and so on. If this enlargement is not accompanied by a profound constitutional change, what we are probably celebrating is the death of the European Union. In other words, the current decision-making process, based on constitutional modifications being made unanimously, is a procedure which does not lend itself to the development of an institution such as our Community, which so far at least has been effective. The danger is that we will transform our European Union into a kind of Council of Europe, an ineffective parliamentary forum – the only thing that works is the European Court of Human Rights – a kind of big UN, with the difference that in the UN only five States have a veto, while in the European Union 27 or 28 States would have the right to veto. Therefore, firstly, with regard to the proposals from Mr Bourlanges, I believe it is essential that we replace the current unanimity with a system of majorities, but, of course, the greater the possibility of adopting decisions by majority, the closer we will be to the genuine political community we aspire to be. Secondly, I agree with Mrs Frassoni that the escape route represented by the rule on majority by means of variable geometry could lead us – as Mr Marinho pointed out – to certain States, such as the United Kingdom, escaping through the back door of variable geometry. In other words, giving them options which allow them – as in the case of Schengen or the euro – not to contribute to the European project. This is perhaps the main weakness of Mr Bourlanges’s proposal. But, in conclusion, I would like to say that I agree with the proposals in general and I believe that, in any event, although I do not agree with any proposal by Mr Bourlanges, the adoption of the report would represent great progress in terms of the strengthening of the European institutions. – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the President-in-Office of the Council on having given significant impetus to the launch of the European security and defence policy with the scheduling of a specific Defence Council. I believe that today’s debate may be a great help to the policy which the President-in-Office of the Council intends to pursue, because there is a slight discrepancy between his views and those of many of the participants: the President-in-Office of the Council has insisted on the intergovernmental nature of the defence policy and here – on the one hand Mr Brok and, on the other, various other Members such as Mr Titley, Mr Marset, Mr Morillon, etc., and Commissioners Patten and Liikanen – have indicated that there are elements for a European policy in the field of the arms industry. Article 296 is a locked door which can be unlocked. There is a key; there is the possibility of implementing it: we already have case-law from the Court of Justice which opens up this possibility and I hope that the Council will consider the possibility of implementing Community law specifically on Community level, in addition to the actions carried out at government level. – Madam President, European citizenship was one of the great achievements of the Union Treaty adopted in Nice in 1992. In accordance with the judgments of the Court of Justice, the rights of European citizenship, including the right to free movement and residence within the Union, were fundamental rights of European citizens, whose recognition did not require any legislative implementation. In accordance with this legal basis, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market considered that there was no reason for the establishment of restrictions of an administrative nature, either for entry into a country or for free movement and residence. Much progress has been made in the field of legislative organisation by means of the Schengen Agreements, but it is the case that certain countries are still resisting this progress and are not participating in it. Therefore, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market hoped that this proposal for a directive would represent an effective step forward by removing all the restrictions in terms of administration and content to a citizen’s ability to establish themselves in another Community country. This was the purpose of the amendments adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. The amendments of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market were not accepted by the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, and the rapporteur would naturally like them to be maintained, but has not insisted, in order not to jeopardise the agreements reached in this field. I would like to draw attention to an amendment, however, which could to a certain extent respond to the concerns of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. I am referring to Amendment No 23 – which introduces a new Article 4(b) – which says that ‘This Directive shall not lead to the withdrawal of existing rights established by the legislation of the European Union or Court of Justice decision’. I believe this amendment is essential if we do not want to move backwards in terms of the rights of European citizens within the Union. – Mr President, I believe that tonight’s discussion contains an internal German political element. In other words, there is a confrontation between political parties and much of the blame for the fact that we are having this discussion tonight lies with these German politicians. Specifically, we must remember that, in 1991, the German Christian Democrat Government, when Klaus Töpfer was minister, introduced a regulation on packaged goods, which took shape in 1998 under the Environment Minister, Angela Merkel, of the CDU, and in 2001 an attempt to improve this regulation failed because the majority of the CDU in the Bundesrat blocked it, and it was therefore not possible to establish a suitable system for recovering packaging. In any event, I believe that the German Government has taken the bull by the horns and is trying to resolve a problem which today affects the whole of the European Union. The question I would like to ask the Commissioner is to what extent the Commission and the institutions of the European Union are failing to fulfil their duty when they do not propose or adopt Community legislation to prevent this accumulation of solid waste, which is currently making it very difficult to organise the work – in cities, for example – with enormous costs for local authorities in terms of providing these resources. I will tell you an anecdote, for example, about how on my island, which is a small island with 300 volcanoes, we began to use a volcano and it is almost full already and, in this way, before long we will not have volcanoes, but mounds of rubbish. I have the feeling, Mr President, that at the moment, and despite the fact that I think it is right for the Commission to try to harmonise measures, we must remember Articles 174 and 176 of the European Union Treaty – which are in place – which, on the one hand, empower the States to adopt measures to better protect the environment, but on the other, encourage the Community institutions to adopt general measures, so that a problem as serious as the one we have today with the accumulation of solid waste can be resolved in the only rational way, which is the Community way. I would therefore urge the Commissioner to analyse the possibility of achieving Community legislation to harmonise the situation, and I believe that we must not restrict ourselves to using an internal political problem to cause difficulties for a European Union government. –  Mr President, as Mr Provan pointed out, the two institutions with responsibility for adopting this directive, Council and Parliament, are divided. In the Council, a minority opposes it and Parliament is divided more or less down the middle, given that in the delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the final evening of debate, the voting was concluded with 8 votes for and 6 against, with one Member abstaining. I would say that the divisions now also extend to the various political groups. My own Group will decide this afternoon on how it will vote, which means that until tomorrow we will probably not know for sure whether or not the directive will be adopted. I should like to begin by saying that I disagree with Mr Provan’s assessment of a possible rejection of this directive. Because the problem we face is whether, as a consequence of the directive being adopted, European businesses – as Mr Lehne pointed out – could be held to ransom by the major international financial operators, who are known colloquially as the ‘Sharks of Wall Street’. This is the danger we are currently facing and, as a Member of this Parliament, I state my intention, of course, to vote against the directive, because I believe that the danger of our businesses being devoured by these financial operators, and of being stripped to the bone if they have assets – I am talking here about heavily capitalised companies – immediately condemning workers to unemployment, is much greater than the alternative danger, which is that the operation of the internal market may be impeded. As Mr Lehne pointed out, the Americans themselves have adopted the rather expeditious solution of having at least one State – Delaware – in which highly capitalised companies can be based and where the monitoring of these companies by financial sharks can be prevented. With regard to public opinion or the press, I also disagree with Mr Provan, because his words do not match what is written in the newspapers that I read. In my opinion, a vote against, at this time, by the European Parliament on an issue as important and significant as this would enhance the prestige of this institution. Because the information that I have from governmental institutions indicates that many governments would probably change their position within the Council if they were aware of the impact of this issue on the business world and, above all, on the unions. Now, in the formula laid down in the proposed directive, the workers are the unwanted guests. The workers are invited to the table but they cannot join in. They cannot take part in the meal and cannot take part in the decision-making. They are simply informed of the decision that is to be taken and, once it is taken, the document provided by the workers is just seen as another document – similar to what the Council does when Parliament has a consultative role – and then the decision is reached without any account being taken of the workers’ opinions. I and most of the Members of the Socialist Group will, therefore, probably vote against adopting this directive. . –  Mr President, after Mr Barón Crespo’s speech, there remains very little for me to say on this matter. I am going to refer to the Commission White Paper, and also to the mysterious Council document, the Mandelkern report, to which reference has been made, but of which we have no knowledge. The two documents deal with the legislative powers of Parliament. Mr Prodi has made a commitment not to put forward any proposal to the Laeken European Council, and it seems right, in fact, that these issues will not be discussed at Laeken, because, in short, these are issues that affect the very essence of the process of drafting a new European Constitution and which should, therefore, be in the Convention itself, and, possibly, at the Intergovernmental Conference. What we have to do here is to establish the legislative competences of the European Institutions, and make it clear that, of all the European Institutions, it is the organ of popular representation, the European Parliament, that holds the mandate for this popular representation. The wording of the White Paper, relating to the powers of enforcement, to self-regulation and coregulation procedures, and to the Lisbon strategy, are all aimed at cutting back Parliament’s limited legislative powers. Mr President, my point of view is naturally closer to that of Mrs Gebhardt, who has spoken on behalf of the Socialist Group. This directive represents a step forward in principle, but not in practice, because its application by the Member States has a time limit of three years, the possibility of examining an obligatory insurance system is left for a period of six years and there are provisions which will not enter into force for nine or ten years. This at a time when these types of accident are happening constantly. Specifically, in the field of responsibility for damage caused by ships and other things, there are international conventions which limit the responsibility of shipowners. From a practical point of view, therefore, Community citizens are not going to see any difference now nor for many years to come. This is a beginning – Parliament has been very cautious in accepting it in order to maintain the commitment of the States – but we must be completely realistic: there is no real progress here. Accidents will continue to happen, causing immeasurable damage which is not insured, there is no way of obliging the shipowners or other sectors creating risks to take responsibility and there could be cases of regions, such as mine for example, which lives exclusively from its coasts, being faced with an oil slick which entirely wrecks the activity of the region without the possibility of receiving compensation nor of damage being covered by an insurance system. That is the reality. As always, however, this Parliament, in fulfilling its responsibility – which seems excessive because, since Parliament has codecision powers, it appears to be characterised by a high degree of responsibility – has preferred to suffer slings and arrows in order to accept the compromise – I would not call it a compromise, but rather a diktat – imposed by the Council and the Commission and, to ensure that the proposed Directive can go ahead, has accepted these conditions. In this task, Mr Manders has done everything he could. We are left with just a few verbal commitments. Let it not be said, however, that we or the electors have been deceived: this is just the beginning. Let us hope that the Commission does not wait for these long periods of three, six, nine and ten years, but that within a short space of time – probably as a result of another great accident, which will cause enormous damage in any part of the European Union, whether it be in the Baltic, the Mediterranean, the North Sea or any other place – it is obliged to present us, and to do so quickly, with a proposal which changes this and allows us to move ahead with much more precise rules. Another issue which must be clarified is whether a Directive is the appropriate instrument or whether we need a Regulation which makes this type of rule obligatory, without waiting for the States to slowly fulfil their responsibilities towards their citizens. – Mr President, this is a rather peculiar cooperation procedure between Parliament and the Commission, at an initial phase of the Commission’s work. The communication presented to us by the Commission referred to a limited aspect of the harmonisation of private law, specifically contract law, and the report presented by Mr Lehne deals which a much wider scope, because it refers to the harmonisation of private law in general. We, in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, considered that contract law was probably too narrow a scope and that it would not be sufficient to produce harmonisation of private law in general, which is necessary, as Mr Lehne pointed out, above all within the framework of the introduction of the euro and of the generalisation of European contracts. The Commission’s communication is very broad, given the aspects it deals with and the questions it poses. We, in Parliament, clearly cannot work intensely and on time, as we would have liked, but we can make some observations. I will focus on one: the possibility that, in relation to harmonisation, more reference should be made to the regulation and less to the directive. Because we are seeing that every time a Community directive is adopted, it gives rise to fifteen different national legislations, which leads us to think that we are possibly not achieving the objective of harmonisation, but quite the opposite, because the Community directive paradoxically leads to discrepancies in the development of each national legislation. I know that this is a difficult issue, because there is still legislative zeal of a national nature, but it is one of the possibilities for development by means of Community legislation, instead of merely indirect harmonisation via a directive. I must stop here through lack of time, but not without congratulating the Commission on its initiative and the rapporteur on his report. –  Thank you for the information you have just given us, Commissioner. Given the exponential growth of Community expenditure in this sector, do you believe that the various Member States affected by the second BSE crisis will actually be able to meet these requirements with the resources likely to be available to the Commission in the years 2002 and 2003? – Mr President, I am aware of the efforts being made by Mr Vitorino to achieve concrete measures for the control of illegal immigration throughout the European Union and especially in these outermost regions such as the Canary Islands. The problem is that the situation is deteriorating, it is getting worse all the time, and an increasing number of immigrants are entering our regions. And not only are they entering illegally by sea on boats, but they are also coming by air, in other words, many immigrants are coming to our region from other countries without any control whatsoever. I have taken note of his observations. He referred to Morocco, but he said absolutely nothing about Mauritania; and I do not know whether the Commission is aware, for example, of the discovery of an illegal immigration network operating in Mauritania and on Spanish territory, and acting jointly. My concern is that, while I think it is right to carry out studies, I have the impression that the Council is not currently supporting the initiatives of Commissioner Vitorino, aimed at a rapid solution to this problem. Mr President, I have known Mr Perry for some time in this Parliament – and I consider him one of my best friends – and I have followed the issue he raised in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market with very real interest. But having examined the case, I have no choice but to agree with what Mr Patten just said. That is to say, in the infringement procedure, the Commission is not the Court of Justice, but an agent of Community law which tries to ensure that the law is applied, by demanding that the State comply with Community legislation. And in this case, I believe that the Commission has done that, although perhaps rather belatedly. The result of an infringement procedure, once the State in question has complied with Community law, is the closure of the case, because – as Mr Patten has also said – there is a repeated judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities according to which there is no case for infringement when the State in question has complied with Community law. I believe that Mr Perry has a laudable interest in the Community institutions functioning properly and, of course, it would be desirable for us all to do the same with all the directives that are not transposed by the Member States. What does not work here is a mechanism of fines and penalties imposed by the Commission. The Commission does not have those powers. Only the Court of Justice should have them and, specifically, I would refer Mr Perry to British law. Continental administrative law allows a State to be called to account for non-compliance with its obligations, including, for example, the failure to transpose a Community directive in time. But I have the impression that the procedure which is being tried here is not going to lead anywhere, because I do not see how the Commission, at any point, is going to be able to invoke non-compliance with a Community directive in the past on the part of the State in order to call them to account. From a legal point of view, that mechanism does not exist. In other words, given that Mr Perry is probably completely right to be concerned about compliance with Community legislation and acknowledging that there has probably been harm done to individuals, the judicial procedure is not that of reiteration of the action by the Commission – which has fulfilled its obligations – but, if necessary, an internal British administrative procedure in the event that, in accordance with British law, individuals have been prejudiced by the failure to transpose a Community directive in time. I therefore believe that the Commission, at this time, has fully complied with its obligations and we in the European Parliament cannot demand that it act in any other way. – Mr President, we should in fact have addressed the Argentina crisis last January, when it was at its crucial point, but the changeover of duties prevented this. The Argentine situation has improved since December, but we are still faced with tremendous difficulties. A few days ago some incidents took place, in which two people were killed and dozens wounded. Yesterday, the President of the Argentine Republic, Mr Duhalde, announced that the elections would be brought forward to May instead of October. In any event, when we address the problem of Argentina in these institutions, we should refrain from lecturing. Naturally, I do not think either Parliament or the institutions of the European Union as a whole are in a position to lecture. In particular, it is difficult to do so in the case of a country like Argentina, which has been the prize pupil of the International Monetary Fund and which we have often praised for following this type of policy. The pupil, however, was not as good as it appeared: there has been an excessive accumulation of public debt, uncontrolled public spending and now, as a result, the financial system has collapsed. I think it is difficult to recommend doctrinaire solutions. On the one hand, I do not think that going back to old recipes of replacing imports, or old recipes of dependency theories, solves anything. They might satisfy us intellectually, but they do not solve anything. Of course, it is equally untrue that the solutions devised at Davos, the solutions of the gospel of neoliberalism, have led the country towards a solution. I think we need to look for a far more pragmatic solution. There are countries in Latin America which, albeit with difficulty, are overcoming these problems. The best example of this is Chile, but Brazil, under Fernando Enrique Cardoso, also seems to be coping under difficult circumstances. The most important thing is for the European institutions to instigate aid to Argentina, which is a democratic country, with freedom of the press, a high level of culture and excellent economic, commercial, political etc. relations with our Union. We should consider similar aid to that given to Turkey. In Turkey’s case it is possible that this aid may have influenced its role as a strategic country in the Middle East. Argentina may not be in a strategic area, but if we do not help Argentina, there is a danger that the rest of Latin America might follow in its footsteps. From my point of view and that of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, therefore, the important thing now is not to provide solutions or recommendations, but to ensure that the European institutions and our Governments take action to support this economy and this country which, given the close relationship it has with us, deserves our backing. –Mr President, the outermost regions have a special status, recognised in Article 299(2) of the 1997 Treaty on European Union, but I would say that this status has existed since the founding of the first European Economic Community, in 1957, because this Treaty laid down special provisions for the French Overseas Departments. When Spain and Portugal joined the Union in 1986, the Act of Accession of these two countries included special provisions and what Article 299(2) does is to acknowledge a situation that already had a legislative identity, by means of all the special provisions of the various programmes and specific options dealing with the outermost regions, known for short as COP 6. The Community Treaties and legislation, therefore, recognise the reality of the enormous distance of these regions from the continent, making it impossible for them to be competitive, which is what we are always calling for in the European Union. One only has to visit these territories, which on the face of it seem to be paradises, but which have a host of economic and social problems, to realise what this means. And Commissioner Fischler is one of the few people to have made the effort to go there. And I repeat; it is an effort to visit, because although these territories are beautiful, the lack of time and space and our knowledge of their situation make it clear that they are far from being a paradise. This report by the Committee on Fisheries is an acceptable proposal; the rapporteur has done a good job and has tabled some very reasonable amendments and, in my view, Parliament can approve the report. Of course, the Socialist Group gives its support to the report by Mr Lage and we hope that the Commission continues to develop these special approaches to the fisheries sector. Mr President, I would request on behalf of the Group of the European Peoples’ Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Group of the Party of European Socialists that, given the time, the vote be postponed until the next part-session in Strasbourg. Mr President, the previous speakers have highlighted the special characteristics of the liberal professions and the need for differentiated legislation. Well, as Commissioner Monti has stressed, this differentiated legislation must be produced within a free market, in which clients normally have the possibility of choosing their professionals and furthermore can expect certain standards of behaviour. We should prevent one danger: that of maintaining professional organisations in the field of the liberal professions as a kind of medieval body, which it is very difficult to join, and above all that this type of professional organisation should prevent the free movement of people within the European Union. In other words, the two objectives, that of free access for clients or users to the liberal professions in any country of the Union, furthermore with the right to a system of a general nature, and also the right of access for professionals of one country to another country of the European Union, must be guaranteed. And within this context, the specific regulations for the liberal professions should be aimed, firstly, at guaranteeing discipline within those professions. In many cases, this is not the case. And it would be rather unfortunate for the Commission to imagine that the functioning of the professions is guaranteed by the professional organisations, if we then discovered that, in many cases, the ethical standards of the professions in question are not truly regulated within that profession. And many of us are aware of examples in all the liberal professions. I therefore believe that the Commissioner has made a very balanced analysis and furthermore I must congratulate him on his initiative to hold a hearing with the participation of people from the different sectors, but I hope that they are not just members of the professions, but also representatives of various sectors – industrial sectors, users, consumers – so that all aspects may be taken into account. Ultimately, I believe that a new regulation will be required, a rather specialised regulation, for the liberal professions, but that regulation must not run counter to the general rules of the European Union. As Commissioner Monti has said, we are not talking about a supermarket  one cannot go into a supermarket to buy the services of a doctor  but, within a market context, clients also have the right to benefit from the possibility, for example, of competition within a sector in which there are more professionals than there is demand for them. The supply and demand mechanism can also act as a selection factor, in that clients will normally go to those liberal professionals who offer them the best conditions, including prices. But if we establish an excessively closed regulation, if the conditions for access for clients are too strict, the clients will find themselves trapped as a result of the existence of these organisations and the prices they set, and they will not even have the opportunity to take action against them. I therefore believe that the Commissioner has dealt with the problem very well: we must seek a balance so that the special requirements of these professions  for which we all want very high ethical standards, for which the main responsibility falls to the liberal professionals themselves by means of their organisations  do not prejudice the client, the consumer or the user. The client must have the right of access to legal rules and judicial and administrative bodies, with the aim of guarantee that services are protected as far as possible and that, within the context of the requirements indicated by Mr Gargani and Mr Lehne, we can guarantee free competition, both within each of the countries of the Union and across the Union's borders. Mr President, Italy currently holds the Presidency of the Council, and a distinguished Italian, Mr Prodi, is President of the Commission. Consequently my first words must surely be words of condolence to the Italian people following the tragic events of recent days. I should like to turn now to a subject Mr Prodi dwelt on at length, namely the issue of controls. In modern organisations it falls to the administration of political power or of legislative power to exercise control. Mr Baron, leader of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, referred earlier to the Casaca report on the importance of Parliament as a source of political power. There are also the legislative controls. As Mr Baron said previously, duplication of administrative controls must be prevented. Administrative controls have their place within administration. I do not believe, however, that the outstanding issues before us today can ever be adequately dealt with without an ordered system of political and legislative control. Secondly, the Commission’s legislative programme focuses on enlargement. In this connection I am bound to reflect the very grave concerns felt by this House following the Commission’s latest monitoring report presented by Mr Verheugen in plenary. We wonder how many of the acceding countries really are in a position to transpose the Community  between now and 1 May. In the event of one or more of these countries failing to fulfil the relevant requirements, we wonder too what measures the Commission intends to propose and what measures the Council intends to adopt to prevent such countries joining the Community. I also have to say that this House was taken aback by the Latvian Government’s decision to relieve one of its members of the duty of observer at the European Parliament, because the member concerned had expressed opinions at variance with the official government line. This is all linked to the issue of minority populations in the Baltic States. The question arises as to whether these countries are meeting the fundamental Copenhagen criterion of having an open and functioning democratic system in place. The legislative programme also contains a reference to the Union’s new neighbours. In particular, there is a suggestion of creating common areas for matters of justice and home affairs together with Russia and Ukraine. I would remind you of recent events in those countries. Leaders of industry have been arrested, imprisoned and tried. It seems likely that this was done for political reasons, not for strictly legal ones. One might well wonder how much we could have in common with governments of that ilk. Finally, I should like to raise an issue touched upon by Mr Clegg and Mr van den Berg amongst others. I refer to the adoption of the interinstitutional agreement. I note that the President failed to refer to this agreement in any way. Though it is recent, this agreement is of major importance. It would be appropriate for the Commission to provide the House with some information on the implications of this agreement for the Commission’s legislative programme. Mr President, the issue we are dealing with has been occupying the European Parliament for years, although with low intensity. That is, there is a European Parliament Resolution from 1999 on the effects of military technology on the environment and, in relation to this specific issue, there are a couple of written questions to the Commission, the first presented by Mr Sturdy and replied to by Mr Busquin, which indicated that no aid had been requested for research into this issue, and the second, subsequently, by Mrs Caroline Lucas, replied to by Commissioner Wallström, on the effect of low-frequency sonar. Commissioner Wallström has agreed – or at least Mr Solbes now agrees with what she told us at the time – that this issue falls within the scope of the Habitats Directive. That is to say that the Community has some competence in this area, even though it is of a military nature. We must remember that at the moment the United States federal courts have issued a ban against the US Navy to prevent it from using high-power and low-frequency sonar in the Pacific Ocean, in order to prevent damage to marine fauna. As my predecessor, Mrs Korhola, pointed out, NATO military operations were carried out in 2002 with the participation of European Union ships in waters of Fuerteventura and Lanzarote and as a result 14 whales were beached. Studies have been carried out by two professors, one from the University of London, Mr Paul Jepson, and the other by Mr Fernández from the University of Las Palmas, published in ‘Nature’ magazine in November 2003, which highlight the effect of sonar operations on whales. They apparently produce disorientation in whales which makes them surface suddenly; this gives rise to the phenomenon of decompression, nitrogen accumulates in the whales’ blood and this produces the classic phenomenon of the bends. In other words, from a scientific point of view the connection is proven. We are talking about a species of small whales, similar to dolphins, beaked whales, which are in a very desperate situation and the question we are currently asking is what is this military technology for? Because the reason why the United States are developing this new low-frequency sonar is in order to detect silent submarines which only they manufacture. In other words, if no other country in the world currently has the technology to manufacture these silent submarines, what is the point in our ships, which belong to NATO and are linked to the United States Navy, developing this technology? Immediate damage is being done to these species. I believe that the Commissioner has replied correctly, but, in view of the scientific studies we already have and the existence of that European Parliament Resolution of 1999 – which the Commissioner knows about since he knows the waters I am talking about very well – I believe the time has come for the Commission to consider the possibility of taking initiatives which, within the context of maintaining the Commission’s competences, allow the Community institutions to deal with this issue. As the Commissioner knows, the European Union is currently heading towards some type of defence and security policy. At least it is already included in the Union Treaty, and I believe that, within the framework of this Union defence and security policy, we must also consider the negative effects of such a policy. I therefore hope that this first Commission statement will mark the start of a new Community policy and that, at least during the next legislature, this Parliament will receive some indication from the Commission about the direction we are taking. On the basis of the study in ‘Nature’ magazine by Professors Jepson and Fernández, I have the impression that, from a scientific point of view, the effects of this low-frequency sonar on the survival of cetacean species is clear. We now have to begin to recommend concrete measures, calling on the States, at least within the framework of intergovernmental cooperation, to take account of these conclusions in order to contribute to maintaining our already suffering marine fauna. – Madam President, Rule 6(1) of our Rules of Procedure lays down that, in relation to petitions, the President must announce them to Parliament and refer the issue to the competent committee. On 12 July 2000, the president of the Spanish Supreme Court sent a petition to the European Parliament requesting the waiver of the immunity of the Italian Members of the European Parliament, Mr Berlusconi and Mr Dell'Utri, because of alleged offences concerning the purchase of a Spanish television channel and the non-payment of taxes to the Spanish inland revenue. Yesterday I asked the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market whether she was aware of the issue and she told me that she had received no information about it. Given the provisions of Rule 6(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask Parliament’s President what has been done in relation to this petition and to add that, last Monday, the Spanish Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that it had only become aware of the issue through the newspapers. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you once again for your detailed reply. It appears that there are difficulties, because there are agreements which have been under negotiation for a long time, and that they have come to an end. My supplementary question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is: what are these difficulties? Are they economic difficulties? In other words, is the European Union's contribution sufficient for those countries? I imagine that the main difficulty lies in the current lack of available means both to deal with the immigrants received and to repatriate them. What does the Council believe can be done  with regard to resources  to ease and alleviate this great burden we are currently enduring in the European Union as a result of these imbalances, and in particular in order to facilitate repatriation of immigrants who arrive illegally? – Mr President, from the previous interventions of the rapporteur and the draftsperson of the opinion, and the intervention by Mr Lehne, on behalf of the European People’s Party, it appears that there is a degree of unanimity which the Socialist Group shares. We believe that the Commission’s proposal is appropriate and that Mr Inglewood’s report goes into detail on certain aspects, in particular the reference to the commitology procedure and the explicit reference to the commitments made by the President of the Commission during last February in relation to the participation of Parliament in the development of the legislation on the financial markets. Secondly, as Mr Lehne has said, the adoption of international accounting standards by the Community involves a second part, the negotiation with the competent authorities in the United States – not with the government of the United States, but above all with the Securities and Exchanges Commission – of standards which prevent European companies from having to conform to dual accounting requirements in order to operate in Europe and in North American markets. Mr Inglewood has introduced a series of amendments which, in our opinion, are aimed at improving the text of the directive, within the framework of the spirit of cooperation between this Parliament and the Commission. As Mr Inglewood has said, our hope is that an agreement can be reached soon between the Commission, the Council and Parliament so that the directive can be adopted very quickly without having to go to conciliation. In principle, therefore, the Socialist Group will vote in favour of all the amendments. We have certain difficulties in relation to some amendments and we will still have to examine whether they are compatible with our position and, above all, we await the Commission’s opinion with regard to certain aspects of them. – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you very much for the detailed information you have given me on the result of the Ulysses project. One aspect which perhaps you have not highlighted is that, as a result of the division into two phases, while the first phase was strengthened in the Western Mediterranean, immigration in the Atlantic increased, and when the second phase took place in the Atlantic, immigration in the Mediterranean increased. I put this question in relation to a new project which is apparently going to be implemented very soon – Neptune – which would involve the central Mediterranean. Does the Presidency-in-Office of the Council not believe that we should coordinate actions so that the pressure on one side does not force immigration to be diverted to other entry points, at least by sea? – Mr President, paragraph 4 of the Spanish version of the motion for a resolution by Mr Koukiadis says the opposite of what it should say, because it says that ‘... an instrument based on Title VI of the EU Treaty can only be adopted when the EC Treaty provides the possibility of achieving the same objective’. This is the opposite of what the rapporteur’s original text says. I would ask that the Spanish translation be changed. Mr President, I think that both the Commissioner and the rapporteur, Mr Gil-Robles, have expressed the substance of this proposal and Mr Ortuondo Larrea has also given various pieces of information that there is no need for me to repeat. This is an assent procedure, which means that Parliament has to adopt the decision in order for it to be obligatory and, in this particular case, Parliament has acted quickly, because the letter from the Council requesting the assent is dated 8 January, and tomorrow, 12 February, one month and five days later, Parliament will give its assent. I think that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has been exemplary in this respect, because the request was put forward so that we had already appointed Mr Gil-Robles in October, in order that when the Council proposal arrived, we could adopt it quickly. I think this is a good example of interinstitutional agreement between the three institutions, almost . From the point of view of content, Mr Ortuondo has pointed out the fact that there are insufficient resources. For example, in the case of the , we are talking about EUR 5 000 million, which is only one fifth of the amount needed to cover the damage, which is why Mr Ortuondo stressed the need for an additional European fund. I would like to discuss other more legal matters, however. Firstly, according to Community law, it is not the Member States who have competence in this field, but the European Union as a whole. The agreed formula is an intelligent one: the Member States signing in the interests of the Community. We hope that the legal system can be changed so that the European Community itself will be an actual member in order to avoid situations such as this in which particular Member States, such as Austria and Luxembourg, will not be bound by the agreement until 2005. There is also another quite peculiar situation: Denmark is not bound by this decision and it just so happens that it is one of the Member States that is most exposed to this type of accident, due to the extent of its straits. I wonder whether the Danish people are aware that, as a result of this , damage caused in Denmark by this type of incident will not be covered. I therefore feel that, from now on, although the Commission has acted as swiftly and efficiently as possible, it should initiate progress in this respect. This is not an agreement signed by the Member States in the interests of the Community, but an agreement signed by the European Union in the interests of the whole of the European Union: defending national sovereignty does not benefit the citizens of the European Union, which is what we are concerned with. This would be a fundamental lesson to learn from this type of agreement. We cannot continue to operate with old instruments from former ages, in which the Member States were acting to defend national interests, when we are dealing with collective interests, such as preserving the environment across the European Union. . –  Mr President, to reiterate what Mr Harbour has just said, we are now asking for the final vote on this proposal. As Mr Harbour said, the text is now at the stage of being discussed jointly by the staff and the institutions. A second proposal will then eventually come back to this House, containing aspects that were not included in the original proposal – I am referring to the entire pensions system, whose reform the Council evidently wishes to raise and on which Parliament would once again need to be consulted. The adoption of this text now enables us to express our initial position. In order to state our position on the definitive text, we would then need a second Council proposal. . Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Commission for the presentation of this Communication and Mrs Almeida Garrett for her report. The Commission will note that there is substantial agreement between the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and the text presented by Mrs Almeida Garrett. In the field of regulatory agencies, there is a danger of us falling into the North American vice of the proliferation of agencies, which act in a completely autonomous manner and without any real control on the part of the legislative powers. Paragraphs 2 and 3 of the resolution contained in Mrs Garrett’s report are very significant. Specifically, when we get into the strictly regulatory field, we are talking about a legislative power and not an executive power. I would therefore call on the Commission, when drawing up a text with specific proposals, to prevent any reference which could imply the assumption of legislative powers by these agencies. In other words, we should try to ensure that, for any type of legislative delegation, there is an interinstitutional agreement, with the Council and Parliament as the legislative power. Secondly, we must prevent the proliferation of agencies, regulatory or non-regulatory, because it appears that, at the moment, they have become a kind of Christmas present, which are given each year to governments, so that they can say in their respective capitals that they have achieved something from an institutional point of view. With regard to the legal basis and the tendency to invoke Article 308, the regulatory agencies would only make sense if there were specific European Union competence in that area, but not by creating special means for justifying that type of creation. Finally, it is important that the regulatory agencies are subject to the same type of scrutiny as the Commission. Even more in fact, given their distance away. – Mr President, the Spanish Presidency has rightly named the fight against terrorism as its first priority. The Spanish Presidency has also rightly indicated the importance of money laundering to terrorism. Because the true driving force of terrorism, at least in Europe, is not ideology, but money. We are concerned about whether it will be possible for the Council to overcome the obstacle standing in the way of fighting terrorism resulting from certain governments blocking the Community proposals on the fight against money laundering. Secondly, Mr President, the Spanish Presidency insists on the problem of immigration and the need to control it. The Presidency’s programme also talks about the outermost regions. I wanted to link these two problems by pointing out that the outermost regions, although they are far from the Community’s continental territory, are in fact part of our territory and that it is currently necessary to control illegal immigration into these regions. I do not believe that the procedure adopted by certain local authorities is the appropriate one: i.e. providing free tickets so that illegal immigrants in the Canaries can be transported to the mainland of the continent. But if we do not adopt measures on a Community level, it is possible that other local authorities will feel obliged to do the same. Finally, Mr President, over recent years it seems that both the Council and the Commission have forgotten where Latin America is. It is as if the navigation charts have disappeared. The Spanish Presidency points to the importance of holding the Ibero-American Summit and, also in the President’s speech, he rightly stresses the importance of helping certain countries such as Argentina and Colombia. I believe it is very important that the Spanish Presidency takes the helm once again, places Latin America on the continent’s navigation charts and, like in the Fifteenth Century, supports, in this new era, the link between the European Union and Latin America. – Mr President, we were negotiating the motion for a resolution on Afghan refugees when, at precisely that time, a Turkish ship approached Greek waters and threw 350 people into the sea. 215 of them have been picked up and more than a hundred are still being sought, and we do not know if they have drowned or if they have been able to survive. In fact, a former European Commissioner and Member of this Parliament, the current Greek Minister for the Merchant Navy, Christos Papoutzis, has highlighted the irresponsibility of the Turkish government in allowing a situation such as this to come about. As the Member who has just spoken has said, we are undergoing a universal process of globalisation. The phenomenon of illegal immigration is not confined to one part of the world. The European Union, to be specific, is currently seeing the arrival of huge numbers of immigrants, and since Commissioner Lamy is here, and he has been so concerned with the problems of globalisation, I would like to say that I believe we are dealing with another aspect of the phenomenon of that globalisation. Just as capital and goods are being moved about freely, it seems that people also want to move about freely. As Mrs González Álvarez has said, this is not an issue which is easily resolved, but I believe we could do something from here on many levels. On the most general level there would be a regulation of the international economy that includes population movements. And on more specific levels it would mean action by the institutions of the European Union to try to regulate this illegal immigration. This very week, this summer, on the island where I live, we have seen the bodies of illegal immigrants who have been flung from the boats on which they were arriving by Moroccan skippers who form genuine mafias. The question should be put to the Commission of what measures the European Union is preparing for action within its own territory and what measures it is proposing on an international level. I believe that we must act in our own territory, and in the area of neighbouring countries, such as Turkey and Morocco, which are sending us illegal immigrants, and on an international level, by establishing regulations of a general nature. I do not believe that responsibility on the issue of the Afghan refugees should fall exclusively to Australia. Responsibility also falls, for example, to the Indonesian government because it was from there that the original boat sailed, the crew was Indonesian, it all began in waters under Indonesian jurisdiction and it seems that nobody is remembering to state this type of responsibility at the moment. I believe that international action is required in this case and I believe that this would be an excellent opportunity for the European Commission to implement an initiative, I repeat, not only in the closer area of our neighbours, but also on an international level, with a view to achieving the regulation of migratory flows and illegal immigration. – Mr President, Commissioner Patten hit the nail on the head when he said that the danger of these Summits is that they might turn into talking shops. We hope that the Summit will achieve real results, but I agree with Mr Salafranca that the presentation by the Commission of a budget in which the contribution to that region is reduced by EUR 30 million is not the best message to send at this point. However, I would like to refer to another issue: the issue raised by Mrs Frassoni, who has asked us, on behalf of her group, not to include an amendment condemning terrorism. I believe that this could prejudice the hostages of terrorists and that is a mistake from the methodological point of view. We cannot become hostages to terrorism, because if we give in at this point, then we are actually inciting terrorists to kidnap our nationals and our representatives. The Spanish police have just countered a terrorist operation which was apparently aimed at overshadowing the Madrid Summit. I believe that this should reinforce our desire to combat terrorism both on this side of the Atlantic and on the other, and to cooperate with the democratic governments of Latin America in order to consolidate the democratic options. –  Mr President, I am very happy to be here today to support the work carried out by the rapporteur, Mr Rothley, and I would like to join Mr Lehne in thanking Mr Rothley for his work. As Mr Lehne has said, Mr Rothley’s proposal is balanced and received the support of a broad majority of the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. I believe it should be adopted in plenary. A total of 36 amendments have been tabled in plenary. Mr Lehne has referred to them. There are not too many for a subject such as this, but the Group of the Party of European Socialists has decided to support the rapporteur’s direction as a whole, with some of the amendments which the rapporteur has also suggested to us in plenary today, so that we might remedy some of the flaws that were still present in the final version of the proposal. As the rapporteur has said, the aim here is essentially to create a Statute that allows Members of the European Parliament to be recognised, not as an extension of the various national parliaments, but as representatives of the peoples of the European Union as a whole. Mr Rothley said that the European Union is more than simply an international organisation and that, consequently, the Statute for Members of the European Parliament should be based within a Community framework rather than a national framework. That is what we are currently addressing. It is not a simple decision on remuneration. Our current, somewhat flawed, system supplements the flaws in national legislation with Community legislation on allowances, which has been the subject of a great deal of criticism. I believe that if we adopt the rapporteur’s proposal, if the Commission also adopts it and, in particular, as Mr Lehne has said, if the Council adopts Parliament’s proposal, we could soon have a Statute which would effectively allow Members of the European Parliament to be differentiated from members of national parliaments, with their own status, which would be appropriate for the kind of European Union that we are currently trying to create. . – Mr President, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has been dealing with this issue since the beginning of 2002. We were responding to several Commission communications which raised the problem of the shortcomings in Community regulations. I remember how, in conversation with a Spanish national legislator – a very experienced one, by the way – he told me that nobody could understand Community directives. We do so much work on them and so many people are involved in their production: the Council, the Commission, the European Parliament and so many others, that in the end we have a text which could be described as a ‘camel’, in other words, a horse designed by a committee. And that is the real situation. While we must recognise that the regulation is a little more appropriate, the directive, on the other hand, is a real disaster. The Commission’s natural concern was of course to improve this situation, a concern which the Council and Parliament also share. Above all at a time when Parliament is increasing its legislative powers, it makes no sense for us to continue with this procedure for producing legislation. At the same time, however, we in the Committee on Legal Affairs realised that, in order for the Commission's proposals to come to fruition, it would be necessary to provide a constitutional framework suited to this issue. We raised this within the first points of the report, and then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which had decided to produce a series of reports after debating the issue with the Committee on Legal Affairs, realised the importance of the issue in terms of Parliament’s institutional role and, on a very sound basis, accepted the report. Meanwhile, we insisted on our conviction – and that of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as well – that it was necessary to reach an interinstitutional agreement between the three institutions in order to prevent the respective institutions from being deprived of their powers. I believe that the result of this exercise – during which the two different committees of Parliament, Legal Affairs and Constitutional Affairs, have dealt with the issue – has been positive. I believe that the interinstitutional agreement reached is a good agreement and I would like to congratulate my colleague, Mrs Frassoni, on the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the work she herself has done and also the good work done by President Gargani and many members of that interinstitutional working group – Mr Swoboda and Mr Clegg – and we in the Committee on Legal Affairs are happy with the result. This report for which I am rapporteur was approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs before the interinstitutional agreement had been reached. We therefore proposed a series of recommendations to the interinstitutional group on it. Since the agreement has now been reached – and I believe that to a large extent our objectives have been achieved – I believe that the best option is for the report to be returned to the Committee on Legal Affairs so that we can, taking account of the actions included in the interinstitutional agreement, move forward on that basis. I would insist, of course – and here I agree with Mrs Frassoni – that we must deal with the problems of self-regulation and co-regulation. Because we are too happy to talk about civil society and then, when we talk about civil society here in the European Parliament and the European Union, we invite representatives from certain organisations, which somebody or other tells us are representative. But in reality, in democratic systems, civil society is expressed by means of the electoral process. The electoral process provides civil society with a formal means of expression, and the result of that electoral process is the legislative bodies, and it is they who have to adapt the general regulations. The problem with self-regulation and co-regulation is that they represent a step backwards; they mean returning to the Middle Ages, when certain sectors produced rules which bound everybody. In modern societies, these rules must come from society as a whole, by means of elected bodies, elected through perfectly formalised and guaranteed processes, which in this case means the European Parliament, the Council – insofar as the Council is made up of governments with elected leaders answerable to their national Parliaments – and also the Commission, insofar as it is elected by the Council and by the European Parliament. I therefore have the impression that the interinstitutional agreement has placed certain restrictions, but we in this Parliament must continue to insist on the need, on the one hand, to improve the quality of Community legislation and, on the other, not to throw the baby out with the bathwater and not to give up the progress made in our Europe through the development of the liberal and democratic State, which ensures that decisions are made by legislative bodies elected by popular will. , . – Mr President, I think the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission have given us two very good speeches. The President-in-Office of the Council told us in all honesty that Council is at present rather confused about asylum and immigration policies. Commissioner Vitorino, who has undertaken magnificent work in this field, told us that, in the area of immigration and asylum, Community institutions currently find themselves caught between two stools: that is to say between the first and the third pillars. That is to say that immigration and asylum policies, at this moment in time, appear on the one hand in the Treaty establishing the European Community and yet there is no clear Community competence in the field of asylum and immigration. Also, it is very strange that the Heads of State and Government in Tampere made grandiose statements about a European immigration policy, but we do not know if these will actually be converted into Community Law. We, in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, have highlighted the inconsistencies between the declarations by the Heads of State and Government in Tampere and the commitments given in the Community Treaties. I think that the Conference on immigration, which the President-in-Office of the Council informed us would take place within the next two weeks and at which I think there will be significant participation by Members of the European Parliament, will be an opportunity for the three Community institutions – Parliament, the Council and the Commission – to formulate, or to at least start to formulate, the need to give a Community legal basis to the problem of immigration, for, in this case, we have a genuine Community-wide problem. With regard to immigration we cannot talk of subsidiarity. The problem of immigration is, at this moment, common to all European countries, and Commissioner Vitorino, in carrying out the work on the Commission communication on a Community immigration policy, is moving in the right direction. I think that the Commission’s strategy is suitable, but we need to strengthen it from the constitutional angle with the appropriate modification of the Community Treaties. Mr President, Parliament cannot raise any objection to these agreements, and that is quite simply because they are two proposals entirely devoid of content. They are two agreements which I could define as heaven: a lot of good combined with no bad whatsoever. We are all in favour of cooperation, of exchanges, of the development of democracy etc., but there is nothing tangible in these agreements. There is no financial obligation, no commercial obligation and no institutional obligation. This is happening, furthermore, at a time when Latin America, despite its difficulties, is experiencing a period of stability, that is to say, there is some lack of stability but, despite the poverty – which Mr van den Berg referred to – Latin America today is generally speaking a peaceful and calm subcontinent. There are no international conflicts, there are internal conflicts, but they are on a very small scale compared to those during the eighties, and I have the impression that this is the time for us to effectively help the good people of Latin America to move forward. In order to do this, however, we firstly need a specific policy with regard to the region. I do not know whether this policy has to be strictly one of free trade or increasing exchanges with them, but one which at least helps them to form a differentiated entity. Because what characterises Latin America at the moment is that it is a region which is very different from the other regions of the planet. In this regard, the Commission's failure to adopt a specific financial regulation for Latin America seems to me to be an enormous error. I believe that the important thing from now on, rather than offering formulae or recommendations, is to listen to these Latin American countries and to work together to help them to develop and, perhaps, if that continent continues to develop, we may find in Latin America the necessary counterbalance which we are currently lacking in other parts of the world. –  Mr President, I should like to table an oral amendment. This would be a new sub-paragraph 7(a) as follows: “Welcomes the recent announcement by President Duhalde with regard to bringing forward the electoral process by six months to spring 2003, in order to reinforce democratic legitimacy”. Mr President, this is not a legislative procedure but a consultation procedure, a preliminary phase, and I would point out that Parliament is not acting as a legislative body, but as a representative of European civil society and there is probably no other institution which represents European civil society as faithfully as we do, since we are elected by the citizens. The Commission’s proposals are good ideas. We are at the Green Paper phase, we hope that the Commission will present its proposals soon and, above all, I would like to welcome the fact that the Commission is now taking up one of the main proposals contained in Parliament’s recommendations: recourse to the Regulation, which is the most appropriate procedure for adopting these rules. We cannot leave them in the hands of a Directive, because that would give the national authorities too much leeway and could lead to confusion when it comes to applying the rules. Secondly, I believe there is a very important idea in the Gargani report: the idea of the importance of codification. This idea is reflected in the recent interinstitutional agreement, concluded between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission: as far as possible, as we go on adopting legal rules, we must codify them, so that we do not find later that we have a series of regulations, directives, decisions etc., which bear no relation to each other. We are now beginning to acquire a substantial set of rules on cooperation in the field of private law and the ideal thing would be to be able to bring them together in a codified text, and we could also consider a type of permanent codification, that is, that each new rule should be integrated with others with a view to achieving the greatest possible coherence in the legislative text. This is not of course the time to make recommendations to the Commission on this issue, but there is an opportunity to do so and, therefore, we should try to achieve it and try to have it adopted. In conclusion, I believe that Parliament and the Commission are cooperating well in the initial phase; I believe that the proposals the Commission will make to this Parliament from October will be well received and we will be able to work to the benefit of the citizens so that Community law is as harmonised and coherent as possible, to the benefit, as Mr Bartolozzi said earlier, of small companies and ordinary citizens, who expect more from the European Union than a mere mechanism for international diplomatic cooperation. Mr President, pursuant to Rule 144(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the Group of the Party of European Socialists requests that this report be referred back to committee. This is for the reasons I adduced yesterday as rapporteur, namely the need to adjust the report to the interinstitutional agreement. . Mr President, despite its brevity – it only has ten paragraphs of provisions and many recitals – my third report on simplifying and improving the regulatory environment is the result of reading many texts of at least ten years old. The Commission believes that this third report goes further than what was achieved in the interinstitutional agreement. My report is not aimed against the interinstitutional agreement, but rather it intends to strengthen it. However, by means of the long discussion between Parliament, the Commission and the Council on the issue of improving the negotiation of Community legislation, myself and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which approved the report unanimously, wish to express our concern at a tendency which I would describe as technocratic in the legislative field. The legislative process is a political one, it is a process of political decision-making. It is true that as far as possible we must prevent the drafting of legislation that is irrational, complicated and which can be improved on. But the emphasis on exclusively technical considerations or on the economic weight of a certain legislative measure may not correspond to the need to adopt a piece of legislation. In other words, one of this European Union's faults is ‘over-technification’. The European institutions have been criticised for being bureaucratic. I do not like the word ‘bureaucratic’. I would say that what we have in the European institutions is a tendency to technify everything. And as a result of this technification we distance ourselves from the citizens thereby leading to their rejecting our form of adopting decisions. On approving the interinstitutional agreement, I and the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market stress the danger of creating a decision-making process which is entirely out of line with the will of the citizens. And the only means – however imperfect – the citizens currently have to express their point of view on the Community's contribution is the European Parliament elections. If, for example, the European Parliament cannot oppose the technocratic procedures for adopting decisions by means of small groups in the form of self-regulation or co-regulation, I do not know what role it can play. Mr President, I would like to reassure the Commission by guaranteeing that I, and this Parliament as well I believe, which I imagine will adopt my report without too many difficulties, do not intend to undermine the progress which has been made in terms of simplifying Community legislation, but rather propose strengthening the political elements of the process of adopting legislation, pointing out that legislative delegations must always be subject to the popular will, by means of an institution with full legislative competence. As we know, the great difficulty is that the current Community legislation is the result of the accumulation of a series of international treaties which have continued to evolve and there will be no solution until a European Constitution clearly defining legislative powers is adopted. Once clearly defined legislative powers exist, the legislative power will be able to delegate, will be able to transfer duties to technical bodies; but these technical bodies must never replace the popular will expressed by means of direct elections to a legislative institution – the European Parliament, Parliament and the Council, whatever you want to call it – which wishes to adopt those decisions. I will therefore end by assuring the Commission that our intention is not to undermine the interinstitutional agreement but rather to strengthen it, introducing the necessary political elements into it so that our citizens believe in the European construction we are carrying out. – Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, the Presidency of the Council will realise that I am not satisfied by references to mere written declarations. The current situation in the Canary Islands amounts to a genuine invasion. Approximately one hundred people are arriving every week and, furthermore, we are sending them to the rest of the Community. A week ago, the Mayor of the city of Las Palmas in Gran Canaria sent two hundred immigrants to Madrid with one-way tickets. If the European Union does not look after this border, I can assure you that we will have a real invasion, which is going to change all the parameters. Perhaps my supplementary question should be, in relation to certain replies I received yesterday from Commissioner Vitorino on the Commission’s new proposals, whether the Council is considering those Commission proposals on the control of external borders, on immigration agreements with neighbouring countries and on the return of illegal immigrants in the EU to the countries of origin. – Mr President, the Seville Summit commits the Danish Presidency to certain obligations which need to be fulfilled within a very short space of time. Specifically, according to paragraph 32 of the Presidency Conclusions, the Council, the Commission and the Member States are each requested, in accordance with their competences, to implement the following measures before the end of 2002: the implementation of joint external border operations, the immediate implementation of pilot projects open to all interested Member States and the creation of a network of Member State officials to liase on immigration. Bearing in mind the small amount of time available to the Danish Presidency, will you be in a position to support it in the achievement of these objectives which were very clearly set at the Seville Summit? – Madam President, I would like to refer to the letter which you have received from Spain’s Permanent Representative, which you just mentioned. I have been a Member of this Parliament since Spain joined the European Union on 1 January 1986 and, for the first time, this Parliament has established the precedent of a petition from a Supreme Court, not being delivered to the competent committee, but being replied to through the Head of the President’s private office, and the Spanish Ambassador’s letter addressed to the Head of the President’s private office, as if he were a second President. Letters from the Supreme Court are not replied to by the President of Parliament, but by the Head of the President of Parliament’s private office, and the Spanish Ambassador addresses himself to the Head of the President of Parliament’s private office. The issue has been referred to the Council of State, where, after being studied, a suitable response will be given to the petition. If I were the Council of State, I would write a letter asking the European Parliament whether the head of the President’s private office is the competent authority to establish what the competent authority is. Mr President, I agree with Mr Lehne’s proposal since we have not in fact reached an agreement on the text of the joint motion for a resolution amongst the different political groups. Mr President, on 17 October, the Brussels European Council included in its conclusions a statement on Bolivia containing four points. This statement said, amongst other things, that the European Council reiterated its support for the democratically-elected government of Bolivia in its efforts to find a peaceful and constitutional solution to the current crisis and added that the European Council called on the political, social and economic forces in Bolivia to renounce violence and begin a responsible and constructive dialogue with the Bolivian Government. This was said at a time when, as Commissioner Vitorino himself has acknowledged, the Bolivian Government had been responsible for the deaths of more than eighty citizens and for injuries to hundreds of people and material damage to their property. At that time I was ashamed to read that the European Union, together with the US Government, was one of the few sources of support left to the President who acted in such an irresponsible way, after having tried to appropriate the country’s scant natural resources. The question I would ask the Presidency, represented by the Commission at the moment, and I am not sure whether it will be able to answer, is what kind of information the European Council had when adopting this statement, given that on that same day, before it had been possible to translate the Council’s statement into Spanish, the President of Bolivia was delivering his letter of resignation to the Bolivian National Congress. What type of representation do we have? Is there no communication between the Commission and the Council? Did the Commission not know what was happening? What kind of information was there? How could the Council have adopted this statement without the support of the Commission? In other words, we cannot act in such an irresponsible manner, because in this case the European Union has made a fool of itself. It has made a fool of itself before the public and – I repeat – I was ashamed to read in the newspapers that we were supporting this statement, together with the United States. But the Americans behaved more intelligently, because, when they saw that things were going badly, before 17 October, they told Sánchez de Lozada to go. Mr President, I apologise for taking such a critical tone, but I really feel hugely indignant at the moment, because it is not acceptable for our Union to be supporting this type of policy. I would like to add that I agree with Mr Salafranca that this is a time to stay calm, to support the new Bolivian Government, to do everything possible to ensure that this government succeeds, and I would like to thank the Commissioner for the information he has given me on emergency aid. Well, I do not believe that the emergency aid will be enough. Bolivia is the poorest country in South America. Millions of country people are living in misery. The situation is truly horrendous and I believe that that country needs a very particular form of help, and we should avoid repeating past mistakes. We must not rob these poor people of the only natural resource remaining to them, having first taken silver from Bolivia and then tin. – Mr President, two Spanish journalists have died in 48 hours. The second of them, José Couso, was effectively murdered when an American tank aimed its cannon at a building exclusively occupied by journalists. . Mr President, I would like firstly to thank Mr van den Berg for the wonderful report he has presented and I would also like to thank him for having taken up the ideas which, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I have presented in my opinion report on the central idea that in modern societies civil society is expressed by means of the vote and by means of representative bodies elected by the citizens. This is the central idea which the rapporteur has taken up very well in his main report. Secondly, I believe that significant progress has been made in recent months with the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement, between Parliament, the Council and the Commission, on the improvement of Community legislation. I believe this is an issue on which we will continue to work, as the Commissioner himself, Mr Fischler, has said. It seems to me essential, however, to point out that there is a mistaken idea that the reduction of Community legislation reduces the total amount of legislation. Nothing could be more wrong, because every time we adopt a Community rule we are simplifying the legislation by replacing 15 pieces of national legislation. And it is not that I am in favour of adopting Community rules just for the sake of it, but, at the moment, we are dealing with a genuine legislative jungle. Only very positive action by the European Union can put an end to the national legislative jungle which prevents the proper functioning of the European institutions and the European market, the internal market, which is one of our objectives. I am not, therefore, one of those people who call on the Commission to legislate less or who propose less legislation. I would ask it to legislate more when it is necessary, because if it does not fulfil its legislative function we will continue with this jungle which, furthermore, can only increase. With 25 Member States each Community rule represents a genuine legislative simplification and the way ahead does not involve a reduction in the Community acquis but in strengthening it and consolidating it. In any event, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr van den Berg. I hope that tomorrow we can approve this report without any great difficulty. –  Mr President, I naturally want to thank Mr Marques and congratulate him on his report and also on the way he has presented it. Perhaps I should begin by reassuring Mrs Lulling – reassuring her and clarifying things a little for her, because last week I was in Luxembourg, Mrs Lulling’s own country, right in the middle of the European Union. In fact, the problem they have in Luxembourg today, as I could see last week, is that the country has too much economic activity, which is attracting hundreds of thousands of workers to work there. The situation in the outermost regions of the Community is completely different. We are, one might say, the other side of the coin to Luxembourg. Any economic activity we perform has to overcome the enormous obstacle of distance. At the moment, therefore, it is quite impossible for any industrial company to set itself up in the Canary Islands to compete within the Community. We had developed a small industrial sector on the basis of some rules which are certainly quite ancient, going back to the time when the Canary Islands were brought under the Crown of Castile, before Spain existed. There is a fifteenth-century Royal Charter by the Catholic Monarchs exempting traders in the Canary Islands from paying a number of taxes, and this has continued over the centuries. The Spanish constitution recognises it. When Spain joined the European Community, the Spanish Government took care to include some special provisions in the Act of Accession of Spain and Portugal to the European Community to guarantee this special regime, and there is a protocol on this, which was amended by a Council decision in 1991 to adapt it to the internal market. I would say that the special regime for the Canary Islands compared with the rest of the Community territory is less special now than at any time in the whole history of our country and the European Community. What we have done is to replace old forms of taxation, which were much more restrictive, like the APIM (Tax on Production and Imports) or the special tariff, with some new forms of taxation which conflict much less with the operation of the internal market. In other words, what the Commission is proposing and I hope the Council will approve is to try to reduce the impact on trade. In this way, the measures we are adopting now are measures that will facilitate trade within the European Union. Mrs Lulling may be right in some respect; I do not deny it. That is, I would say we have now had a first go, a first attempt at outlining what this neutral tax system will be, allowing trade to function but with a slight preference so as to be able to maintain traditional activities. If Mrs Lulling looks, for instance, at the amendments approved by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism – Amendment No 10 to Article 2 and Amendment No 11 to Article 3 – she will see that there are some adaptation mechanisms, so that the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission, can review the conditions and adjust the rates and other situations. Besides, I am aware that the same concerns voiced by Mrs Lulling have also been voiced specifically at a local level by economic and political actors. This means that, once the Council approves the system, we shall have the opportunity to go on reviewing and adapting it in order to achieve the objective of the functioning of the internal market. It is not a matter of putting up insurmountable barriers but of letting some small, traditional activities continue, and that explains why there is, if you like, a certain discrimination. That is, products are included according to whether there are economic activities that have to be kept going. It is not a question of developing new economic activities but in practice of keeping existing ones going. Of course, I agree with Mrs Lulling that there may be differences, but we shall have to look at these differences a little later. At the moment, I believe the objective for the Spanish Government in making the proposals and for the Commission is to liberalise the internal market and to facilitate the integration of this region – so distant and facing so many difficulties – into the rest of the internal market. It must also be remembered that there is not even such a thing as a Canary Islands market, because there are seven islands and each island has a market, with its own obstacles. In other words, it may be much easier to export from Luxembourg to Gran Canaria than from Tenerife to Gran Canaria, unless these small differences are established. I hope that tomorrow this House will approve the proposal as formulated by the Committee on Regional Policy, and the Socialist Group is, of course, against the amendments tabled by Mr Helmer, which attempt to demolish or weaken a system which I believe has now been precisely calculated to prevent these businesses or occupations from disappearing. I am grateful to the Commission and its staff for their efforts and, of course, I am grateful to Mr Marques for the work he has done in presenting this report to us. – Mr President, in relation to the last intervention by Mr Harbour, I must tell him that there is not much danger of the ship sinking, since it is travelling very light. I have never seen such a light regulation or proposed regulation as this one. It is so light that we are going to have practically no company harmonisation. As Mr Rothley has said, what we are going to have is fifteen different national laws on the European company, fifteen different European companies and, as Mr Gasòliba i Böhm said, we are going to have more than two hundred possible combinations of different types of company. This is truly the softest type of legislation I have seen in my life. Secondly, the Council intends to take legislative power away from us: Mr Gallagher spoke of acting as legislators. If we take the Council’s route, Parliament will be deprived of all legislative power. I believe that Parliament would probably take the correct route by challenging this decision before the Court of Justice, because the Treaties cannot be unilaterally modified by one Community institution. Thirdly, as Mr Rothley pointed out earlier, the type of European company we are going to create is not going to provide any special advantage, above all any fiscal advantage; if we do not take action in the field of taxation, it is going to be very difficult to bring about the creation of European companies and, therefore, it seems to me very important, as the majority of previous speakers have proposed, that the fiscal field be involved. Mr Harbour spoke of the possibility of the ship sinking. I would say that the danger is that the ship will capsize as a result of a lack of ballast. Mr Harbour probably has some naval experience and he knows that, when a ship carries no weight, the easiest thing is for the ship to capsize and sink for other reasons. Therefore, it seems to me that the important thing at the moment is: first, to insist on Parliament’s legal prerogatives, and, secondly, to insist that in order to have a law on European companies we must also incorporate tax aspects. Without taxation it will be very difficult for us to implement a European economic law, a European company law and a European commercial law. – Thank you, Mr Vitorino, for the information you have given me. The problem we have today is that every week approximately 100 illegal immigrants are reaching the islands of Lanzarote and Fuerteventura. The operation seems to consist of getting hold of a supply ship from somewhere and than putting the immigrants onto small boats which take them to the coast. Some make it, others drown, and the process goes on and on. The Commissioner’s response is that there is no Community action, but that it is hoped that the neighbouring countries will control immigration. But the fact is that this immigration is taking place. My supplementary question is as follows: a couple of weeks ago, the Mayor of the city of Las Palmas bought 200 one-way air tickets for illegal immigrants who were there and they flew to Madrid. The Mayor of Madrid, who is from the same party, was not very happy. Does the Commissioner believe that, if this immigration continues in this way, this would be the way to proceed, i.e. that the Canarian local authorities should pay for one-way tickets for illegal immigrants, because there is no more space on the islands, or do you believe that there is another possible solution, which would not make this air link for immigrants between the Canaries and the European continent necessary? – Madam President, having listened to Mr Harbour, it seems to me that we are not going to have much debate tonight, because the Group of the European Peoples’ Party and the Socialist Group basically agree in their support for the Miller report and the proposals now being presented to us by the European Commission. I believe that Commissioner Kinnock is demonstrating his great parliamentary experience by negotiating this rather complex issue in a very efficient manner and I will simply make an observation on what we might call Mr Harbour’s . From the point of view of the Socialist Group, it is essential that the rights of officials be recognised, including acquired rights, as well as the existence of an administrative career path, and that it be recognised that officials of the European institutions are of high quality and have carried out very efficient work. Therefore, the officials should not be pursued, as it appears these last minute amendments intend to do, but this Community administration should be rapidly transformed without abandoning the essential principles of recognising an independent civil service and recognising an administrative career path. Of course, we agree with the proposals in the Miller report on the extending the facilities enjoyed by Commission officials to the officials of the other institutions, including the European Parliament, which I believe will take a favourable view of the amendments we are presenting, which, in summary, recognise the good work done by the Commission. So it only remains for me to congratulate Mr Miller on his report and Mr Kinnock on the skilful, capable and progressive way in which he has dealt with this first administrative reform. Mr President, I too would like to begin by paying tribute to Mrs Echerer – and I do not need to insist on this, since many Members have done the same – but I would also like to welcome the statements by Commissioner Bolkestein, who acknowledges the importance of collecting societies at the present time. Intellectual property has developed as a result of technological advances. Until printing there was no real intellectual property. We now have a second technological revolution, the ‘Marconi Galaxy’, with all the new information technologies. As technology advances, the creator moves further and further away from the consumer. Specifically, my colleague, Mr Harbour, talks of the customer, but I prefer to use the word consumer, differentiating between the two classes of client: the final consumer, that is, the long-suffering citizen who has to watch television and radio programmes, and the intermediary, who buys the intellectual property rights, uses them and exploits them. This brings us to the situation we are faced with, with a multiplication of forms of media, but which are increasingly lacking in content. In other words, we have more and more hours of television, more and more electronic hours, more magazines, more books and more means of production, but they are practically devoid of content. And this is the result of a lack of support for the creator. In the current information society, creators are not being protected. We are creating rubbish-media, which use intellectual property in an entirely thoughtless way, with no sense of responsibility whatsoever and, in view of this, creators need to be protected. That is the role of the collecting societies, which are not monopolies, but instruments available to creators so that they can defend themselves in the face of the control of the media by a few media groups, supported by huge economic power and at the service of political or economic interests. Therefore, the only instrument these creators have today are these collecting societies, which constitute employees’ unions, in order to confront the employers’ organisations, which have enormous strength. I agree that collecting societies must adapt to the new situation, because they have arisen at national level and we are about to move on to a transnational, and even world, level. But at least, at European Union level, we should reinforce the action of these collecting societies, so that, at this level, we can have that protection. I would like finally to refer to enlargement. The European Union is going to be enriched with ten new countries which have a great cultural tradition, but in which – as a result of their recent political past – intellectual property has not been sufficiently protected until very recently. I believe it is very important that, in the final enlargement process, we make these countries aware of the need to adapt themselves to the Community acquis, including, amongst other things, collective management, in the face of this danger of monopoly on the part of the large groups controlling the media. –  Madam President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I wish to say that we are against the tabling of this oral amendment. –  Mr President, I agree with Commissioner Verheugen when he says that the most important aspect of this type of case is the welfare of the Romanian children. There are, perhaps, two aspects of this matter that need to be raised: firstly, is Romania adequately protecting its children? Are there any alternative systems? Can the European Commission adopt measures to guarantee improvements in the way these children are treated? Secondly, since Mr Verheugen is a member of a Commission that represents the countries of the European Union, has the Commission adopted measures to ensure that, in the event that international adoptions take place involving citizens of Community countries, guarantees will be provided in the reception countries for Romanian children to be treated appropriately, in accordance with international law, Community law and with the national law of the Member States? – Madam President, Mr Patten’s intervention was very intelligent and demonstrated his ability and knowledge. Mr Patten knows the Far East extremely well – he has been closely involved there – and the majority of today’s speakers probably know South America better. He has described the situation in very clear and very economic terms, and that is that, while the countries of the Far East have in recent years gone from misery – by adapting to the new situation – to a higher standard of living, in the countries of Latin America the standard of living has declined and, in 50 or 60 years, a country such as Argentina has gone from exceeding the European average to being below it. Mr Patten is right, but the problem is that at the moment – this is what the Latin American countries tell us – the international system is obliging the countries of Latin America to reduce their standard of living, to proletarianise and to introduce a genuine revolution, in other words, to ‘Asianise’ itself. The problem is cultural and serious. And we hope, of course, that the European Union will not just take account of cold economic factors, but also the cultural and political factors which will provide the conditions for maintaining democracy in that region. – Mr President, I totally agree with your decision. I believe that what we are dealing with here is an act of political faith, in view of the fact that we are attempting to defend the existence of the European Company Statute, without prejudice to the fundamental issues arising from the legal base. . – Mr President, in accordance with Rule 69 of our Rules of Procedure, the Commission can explain its position on Parliament’s amendments and, in the event that it does not accept all of those amendments, the rapporteurs – because I agree with my co-rapporteur, Mr Harbour, on this – would request a postponement of the vote on the legislative motion for a resolution, pursuant to Rule 69(2). Mr President, this morning’s debate creates great confusion, because the positions we are hearing are very different. Some people tell us that Mrs Fourtou has achieved a wonderful compromise and others tell us that the big political groups have behaved like a kind of steamroller. We have heard speeches from Members of the different political groups, including the big ones, expressing very different opinions. Mrs Fourtou has tried to speed up the legislative process with what we could call ‘’, but I believe we should assure Mr Imbeni that the procedure remains in place. The problem is that the current procedure for approving legislation in the European Union, before the adoption of the European Constitution, is a truly elaborate, complicated and difficult procedure. The recently signed Interinstitutional Agreement intends to eliminate these difficulties, but we know that that is going to be very difficult to achieve in practice. And this is because if there is no clear identification of a legislative body – which I believe must be as unified as possible – we are condemned to continuing to adopt this type of legislation in which there are great contradictions. Mr Berenguer Fuster said that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market reflected the views of the Members of Parliament. I disagree with that, because the majority of reports approved – including by a great majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs – are usually then rectified in plenary. In other words, as a result of its composition, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market does not currently reflect the will of the whole House. Mrs Fourtou has tried to achieve an agreement which does not reflect the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I do not know if she will achieve that agreement, because we do not yet know what the result of the vote will be. We are talking about a report with many amendments, with enormous amendments, and which, theoretically, should not affect substantive law. We are talking about a right relating to the application or implementation of the substantive content. Mr Berenguer may be right about the confusion between civil, administrative and criminal enforcement procedures, but it appears that the attention has been to eliminate criminal enforcement or, at least, the possibility of criminal proceedings, and this is due to the European Union's lack of competences in the criminal field. On the other hand, the scope of the directive has been extended – or it is intended to do so – so that it also includes the field of patents, which is a field in a degree of turmoil. My impression, Mr President, is that this first reading is going to produce a text typical of these Community institutions: a kind of camel – that is, a horse designed by a committee – and that it will probably only be the beginning, but I believe it is preferable for us to adopt this proposal for a directive as quickly as possible, at least so that we may have a departure point to work from, firstly in the second reading and then, no doubt, when further legislative proposals are needed. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I tabled the question before the Commission adopted its proposal on the trans-European networks, but it was motivated by a very timely proposal by the Italian Presidency, which appears to be producing results, both in the Council's approval of its proposal, and also the incorporation of transport to the island of Sicily, which is a recognition of the special nature of island regions. The President-in-Office of the Council has stressed the special nature of the outermost regions, based on Article 299(2) of the EC Treaty, but, on seeing the projects approved by the Commission, I note that there is only one which could involve the outermost regions, and that is the one relating to sea motorways. They could perhaps also be included in the project on telecommunications networks, but what is striking about this report is that it does not contain the least reference to this type of region, and the European Union's experience demonstrates that, if there is no specific reference in these projects to the outermost regions, it is probable that the strengthening of continental communications networks will in no way benefit these regions. I would therefore call on the Presidency of the Council, in accordance with the comments it has itself made, to ensure that the Council takes account of their special situation. – Mr President, the proposal for a directive presented by the Commission is a timid proposal. It is timid at a time when there is continuous environmental damage – the most recent example being the ‘Prestige’ – which is causing indignation amongst all our peoples, with mass demonstrations – in my country, for example, where the people are calling for this type of damage never to happen again. And faced with this timid directive, the Group of the European Peoples’ Party, taking advantage of their current majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, has established even more restrictions, making it practically impossible to demand that the people causing the damage should meet their environmental responsibilities. The polluter pays principle would be entirely jeopardised if the amendments approved on the proposal of the European Peoples’ Party within the Committee on Legal Affairs were adopted. The Group of the Party of European Socialists presented a series of amendments intended to reinforce the content of this directive. As I said previously, those amendments were rejected in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market by that mechanical majority of the right, but, taking advantage of the fact that such a majority does not exist in the plenary, the Parliamentary Group of the European Socialist Party has reintroduced that group of amendments – from No 98 to the end – which are aimed at re-establishing the polluter pays principle, at establishing the general principle of responsibility and establishing the possibility of any person affected being able to demand the relevant compensation. We hope that, in plenary, these amendments presented by the Group of the Party of European Socialists which are aimed, as I said earlier, at re-establishing, on the one hand, the whole of the directive and, on the other, at reinforcing the directive as a whole so that the damage caused, for example, by maritime goods transport, by nuclear accidents, by the damage caused by the spread of genetically modified organisms or even by biotechnology, can be effectively repaired. I hope that the plenary of the European Parliament will approve this group of amendments and thereby rectify the text adopted in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market as a result of this unilateral approach favouring the people causing the damage. I believe this is a justified aspiration, which the citizens of the European Union expect from us, and I therefore hope that the modified text will be accepted. And specifically, I imagine that the Commission will have to provide a little more detail in relation to the statements by Commissioner Wallström, since we would like to know a little more precisely what the Commission’s attitude is to both the amendments which have been approved within the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and the amendments which we hope will be approved once the plenary gives its opinion on the group of amendments we have now presented. –  Mr President, I think that Mr Pomés has explained the situation: torrential rain in the Canaries and in south-eastern Spain, which has caused a great deal of damage, especially in the town of Santa Cruz de Tenerife, where eight people died and 400 homes were lost, with many cars and much private property being destroyed. From the Community point of view, the most striking feature, naturally, is this issue of climate change, which we addressed in our joint motion for a resolution, and the need to comply with the provisions of the Kyoto Protocol, in the aim of stopping climate change from causing the damage it is causing at the moment, which could get even worse. We need to take into account the fact that competition in local building and construction work is undertaken on a local, regional and national scale. The relevance of this from the Community point of view is that the European Union was generous enough to make a large financial contribution to the Urban plan in the city of Santa Cruz de Tenerife itself. The issue now, without questioning whether these funds were used properly, or whether they took due account of environmental considerations, is that we are clearly failing to see that urban development in island regions such as the Canaries, and in other outermost regions, has resulted in what we could call abusive land use, without taking other considerations into account. Perhaps the lesson we can learn from this type of occurrence is that the European Union now has a wealth of knowledge on building in areas that are exposed to potentially catastrophic torrential rain, not only in Spain, but also in France, the UK, Germany, practically throughout the Community, in fact. Although we must not forget that this issue fundamentally falls within national competence, this is an area in which the European Union could contribute to the well-being of all of its citizens by making use of these experiences and in seeing how its assistance to projects such as the Urban projects can be more effectively implemented. For this reason, in dealing with, for example, the Urban plan for a specific population, we should not confine ourselves to what might be called purely ornamental external characteristics, but should also look at the impact that this type of plan would have on the situation as a whole. In concrete terms, the town of Santa Cruz de Tenerife is built on steep riverbanks that have been blocked off, yet construction has continued due to demographic pressure and the need to use the land. It would probably have been useful, in studies carried out prior to the Urban plan being set in motion, for this other type of consequence to have been taken into account. It is always, of course, much easier to talk with the benefit of hindsight and we cannot undo what has been done, but given that the Urban plan is still in force and that the European Union can have learnt from this situation, I would ask the services of the Commission to take this opportunity to consider how community aid could have prevented this kind of catastrophe and how this could be used as an example for other kinds of project in the future. – Mr President, as Commissioner Fischler is going to have to speak immediately, perhaps I could ask him to pay attention to me so that he can prepare his speech. I would like to congratulate you and thank you for the Commission’s interest in the outermost regions and express the general satisfaction of the Members of this House. I would also like to thank Mr Martínez Martínez and congratulate him on his work. Above all, however, I want to point out three or four amendments to Mr Fischler that are of particular importance. I am referring to Regulation (EEC) No 1601/92, concerning specific measures for the Canary Islands and, specifically to Amendments Nos 29 and 34, aimed at including aid for non-municipal public forests, and Amendment No 158, also concerning aid for non-municipal forests. I think that the Spanish authorities were mistaken in not requesting this aid at the time and now they must do so. I am also referring to Amendments Nos 126 and 127, which aim to protect local industry in the Canary Islands and, finally, the amendments aimed at protecting the Canarian tomato, which could encounter serious difficulties in the new phase of drawing up a Community policy that applies in Mediterranean countries. Also the proposed measures to support wine but to remove aid for imports to the Canary Islands of table wine and liquid milk, which could enter into competition with Canarian products. In short, I think that we have a good proposal from the Commission and some good reports by Mr Martínez Martínez. The European Parliament should adopt these proposals, which, incidentally, have not been amended at all in Parliament, as I think that the majority of Members consider that the text adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is a positive one. I hope that the Commission will be able to take into account at least some of the main amendments, which I have just pointed out. – Mr President, it would appear from the last speech that the Government of the United Kingdom is responsible for the violence in Colombia. I would like to state that up to now, in the documentation I have seen, I have not found any involvement by the Government of the United Kingdom in the violence in Colombia. The fact is that in Colombia people are being killed – the revolutionaries (the FARC) kill them, the paramilitary organisations linked to the Government kill them – and to make any kind of pronouncement right now as to the guilty parties in Colombia seems premature to me. At present there is a situation of violence and those responsible for that violence are in fact the Europeans, because we Europeans left in Colombia, as in many other countries, a trail of injustice, of social differences, which persist to this day. The European Union has been concerned with Colombia for a long time. Unfortunately, we have not been able to influence events in a very positive way. But we have at least succeeded in increasing the country’s economic activity to the point where, today, 40% of Colombian exports are destined for the countries of the European Union. I believe that in the European Union we are faced with a somewhat desperate task, because the years are passing and the violence continues. The violence also affects us closely. For example, in Madrid, forty Colombians have been assassinated in the last six months by Colombian drug trafficking organisations, by hired assassins who come specially from Colombia to kill their fellow citizens. If the events of 11 September have demonstrated anything it is that violence in the world has no limits, that in a globalised world violence affects us all and that therefore, any action we take in a faraway country such as Colombia ultimately benefits our own citizens as well. We have to protect our citizens and the citizens of the whole world in lands as remote as Colombia. I know that the Commission and the Council are restricted in terms of achieving such results. If the Colombian Government, if a large number of people dedicated to achieving the pacification of the country in the country itself (writers, intellectuals, etc.) have failed to achieve those results, it is unlikely that we will be able to achieve them, but I believe – I am availing myself of the presence of the Commissioner, who deals with a very sensitive area concerning this issue, to say this – that we should continue our efforts. Rather as in the myth of Sisyphus, we should continue rolling the stone from the bottom of the mountain to the top, despite all events to the contrary. I am convinced that both the Commission and the Council will agree with Parliament on continuing to help the Colombian Government and the political leaders of good faith of that country to find a solution to put an end to the escalation of violence, which seems to be plunging Colombia, that magnificent and stupendous Latin American country, ever more into the abyss. I therefore hope that, between the three institutions, the Council, the Commission and Parliament, we may help in some measure in the pacification of Colombia. –  Mr President, the crisis in Venezuela’s two-party regime led to a solution’s being sought in terms of what we might call the populist panacea. What had happened is that, after 40 years of relative political stability, the two-party regime had been discredited as a result of accusations of corruption and malfunctioning of the democratic institutions. The solution took the form of a regime that, to most intents and purposes, was plebiscitary in character, with a new constitution and with a president possessing considerable popular support but in which the democratic institutions did not operate properly. In actual fact, this is not a phenomenon exclusive to Latin America. In Europe, too, there is a certain tendency at the present time to look for solutions in this type of populism, involving the discrediting of parliamentary and representative institutions. I believe that we can say, like Winston Churchill, that ‘parliamentary democracy is the worst political system … except for all the others’, and I think that the Venezuelans will now have to reflect upon the new type of constitution they want. It is not, however, for us to tell the Venezuelans what to do. The motion for a resolution is not designed to recommend one course rather than another to the Venezuelans. It is the result of a compromise between various political forces, and that is why we, at this time, are rejecting the proposals for split votes on some aspects of the resolution tabled by Mr Ribeiro e Castro, even though we do in fact support his amendment about acknowledging the situation of immigrants. What would be required would be for the European Parliament, together with other Community institutions, to intervene to help create a climate of understanding between the Venezuelans themselves. This Parliament already has experience of intervening in crises, for example in Central America – more specifically, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Guatemala – as well as in South America: more specifically, Chile and Paraguay. Such an intervention, made in conjunction with parliamentarians from Latin America, could be useful in creating this climate of confidence required by Venezuela if it is to function properly. – I agree with the opinions expressed by the President-in-Office of the Council. Of course, I completely disagree with the view of Mr Giscard d'Estaing that Turkey’s entry should be conditional upon certain racist requirements; but what is clear is that we MEPs have an obligation to communicate to the Community institutions any cases in which a candidate country is not complying with the conditions demanded of it. Bearing in mind that Turkey’s candidature still has a long way to go, does the President-in-Office of the Council not believe that the Turkish Government should be made aware of these facts in order to demonstrate to it, in a specific manner, that this type of measure – the expulsion of journalists carrying out their work – is not compatible with membership of the European Union? Specifically, does the Council have any type of mechanism for informing the Turkish Government of these cases, in order to prevent any repetition of these incidents, and in order to demonstrate to them in a practical way what the democratic functioning of the European institutions consists of? Mr President, as my predecessor, Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra, said, this motion for a resolution has the support of three political groups, the three largest in the House. The motion for a resolution is in line with the statement of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council of last February, which urged compliance with the agreements between the government and the opposition. In this regard we are facing a degree of contradiction because the current Venezuelan Constitution has been drawn up by the party currently in government with a large majority. Nobody obliged the government to include the recall referendum in that Constitution, but it was included. Nobody obliged the government to reach an agreement with the opposition on 29 May 2003, but it was reached. Furthermore, that process is currently being carried out in cooperation with the Organisation of American States, the Carter Centre and also, to a certain extent, the European Union – because we are contributing to the process. At the moment, in line with the statement of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council and in view of events, Parliament, which has expressed its opinion on Venezuela on other occasions, wishes to point out that constitutional rights can be infringed by violation of essential procedural requirements and we believe that in this case there is a violation of essential procedural requirements, since by alleging that there were certain ‘coincidences’ in handwriting, hundreds of thousands of signatures have been annulled. Other procedures could have been used. If it was believed that those signatures were not correct, a system of sampling could have been used, for example, in order to verify whether those hundreds of thousands of signatures were really correct. But what is not acceptable is for them to be annulled in this way without in any way bearing in mind more that the one million signatures needed for a recall referendum would have been collected. We are currently facing a decision by the National Electoral Council, supported by the government, which is intended to deprive Venezuelan citizens of a constitutional right recognised in the Constitution of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. I believe that the resolution is very clear. We are not trying to inflame passions. Quite the opposite. We are appealing for calm. But we want this process of restoring constitutional normality to conform to the spirit of the agreement of 29 May 2003. In other words, it is not a question of one side imposing its will on the other, but neither is it a question of preventing the exercise of a constitutional right such as the right to call for the recall of a President. And to do so in the way that the National Electoral Council has done, by annulling signatures en masse, makes the exercise of that right impossible. At the moment, it is clear that the Carter Centre for Democracy and the Organisation of American States are negotiating with the Venezuelan Government and with the opposition with a view to seeking a way out of the conflict and we hope that the Commission, as always, will cooperate with Parliament and the Council in the task of reassuring the Venezuelan population and making it possible to put the Venezuelan constitutional process back onto a democratic electoral course. –  Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to thank Mr Fernández for producing this report, which is an assessment rather than a legislative report. I also thank Commissioner Nielson for his statement. As the rapporteur says, we have reached the final stages of a regime for protecting banana imports, which will come to an end on 31 December 2005. The European Union has managed to maintain special privileges for 12 small countries, as Mr Fernández has told us. Some of those countries, such as Somalia, Jamaica and Dominica, are among the world’s poorest, which is why they need our help. That date, 31 December 2005, is very close. A guarantee and a tariff preference are laid down in the Cotonou Agreement; they will have to be honoured. Clearly, though, these banana producers will find themselves in trouble as the date approaches. What I mean to say is that there is every chance of the Community market becoming flooded with bananas marketed by multinational companies. Most importantly, the rapporteur has pointed out another danger, namely that enlargement will be used to justify granting even more preferential treatment to those multinational companies, opening up our markets to the detriment of both Community and traditional ACP producers. I believe that Commissioner Nielson is at present aware of those problems. He mentioned that the amount of aid has remained at approximately the same level, about EUR 40 million, in recent years, and I do not know to what extent that amount could be altered to accommodate the needs arising as an inevitable consequence of the transition from a protective banana regime to an open regime subject only to the tariff restriction. I therefore reiterate my group’s support for Mr Fernández’s report, and hope that the Commission will continue to protect this small group of impoverished countries. Mr President, since I have sat with Willy Rothley for the last ten years, I have been a privileged witness of his determination to make progress on this issue. I would like to congratulate him and recognise his efforts, since he really deserves it. Furthermore, I would like to stress that both the President-in-Office of the Council and the Vice-President of the Commission and my colleague, Mr Lehne, have pointed out that respect for primary law includes a very important principle, that of the unity of Community fiscal legislation. In our proposal there is a modification of the exceptional fiscal status, taken up in the so-called ‘Belgian compromise’, which only makes sense in so far as it is a delegation, a kind of opting out with regard to general law, but which cannot be interpreted as a general power before the States to establish taxation on the sums paid by the Community institutions. With this exception, the proposal that the various political groups are now presenting in the European Parliament could effectively represent a step forward in the establishment of unitary status with regard to the European Union. I do not believe that now is the time to invoke the subsidiarity principle, but quite the opposite: we are building a European Union which must be based on common institutions with a common operation, and this is what explains the proposal for European parliamentary statute and a statute for European political parties. It is not a question of granting privileges of any type, but of establishing a situation of equality amongst all the Members of the European Parliament. I hope that we can approve the text without any of the amendments presented. . – Mr President, as we have heard, thank heavens that there were only a few amendments the Commissioner could not accept! In any event, I would ask, on my own behalf and on behalf of my co-rapporteur, Mr Harbour, that it be referred back to committee and I hope that we will soon be able to bring the legislative package back to Parliament. –  Mr President, like Mr Lehne, I too would like to congratulate Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi on the work she has carried out to produce a balanced report on this issue. As Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi pointed out, the European Parliament’s role in this particular case is of a purely consultative nature, for the issue is really in the hands of the Commission and the Council. However, I believe that the European Parliament is currently giving some very good advice. Firstly, as Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi pointed out, a Community such as ours is important in relation to the role of the National Patent Offices. Secondly, as Mr Lehne stated, the field of jurisdiction. The other day several lawyers from large North American companies told me that the advantage of the North American federal system is that state jurisdictions are, generally speaking, more favourable to local businesses and consumers, whilst large companies prefer to go to federal jurisdiction, which is more favourable to them. We will probably have to consider whether the conferring of powers to a special Community jurisdiction could possibly create imbalance, or give rise to what the Americans call ‘forum shopping’, which consists of each lawyer or expert in legal matters bringing the matter to the jurisdiction most favourable to them. I would like to refer to another matter, which is that we have arrived at this new European patent indirectly through adhesion to an existing international convention. This causes problems, for example, of a linguistic nature, a matter of some importance to the European Union. The European Community is not a federal union, but more like some kind of confederation, in which different cultures and national traditions are very important. In specific terms, for a country like Spain and for the 500 million people who speak Spanish worldwide, submission to a language which is not their own is going to cause very serious problems when carrying out research, not only in Spain, but in all of those countries who have called on the Spanish Patents and Trade Marks Office to patent their inventions. The European Parliament can only give a recommendation, using recital 2, with regard to Article No 5. This recommends recourse to the Alicante system, as Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi pointed out, which has functioned well in the past and is currently functioning well in five languages, thus permitting inexpensive and large-scale Community-wide participation. We notice that this system is particularly well suited to the European Union’s requirements. I believe that Parliament’s proposals and the agreement we have reached in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market are reasonable. Therefore, our group will support all the amendments approved by this committee, although we do not think that it would be appropriate at this time to vote for any of the other amendments, since this would upset the balance we have managed to achieve in this committee. –  Mr President, during the first sitting in July, when you were President-in-Office of the Council, I asked you a very similar question and you told me that the Council and the Danish Presidency would address the matter as quickly as possible. Two or three days later, on 8 July, I asked this question, hoping specifically that during the summer something would have been done. The problem we have in the European Union, Mr President, and this is neither your fault nor that of the Danish Government, is that our system does not work. Between the date on which I asked the first question, the first week of July, and today, thousands of illegal immigrants have entered the Canary Islands, both by sea and by air, and the situation there is unsustainable, and we do not have any reception centres. These islands have a smaller area than the islands of Denmark, and at the moment we do not have any means of solving the problem. Mr President, I would say – and I repeat – that, through no fault of your own or of the Danish Presidency, the Council of the European Union is not following up the proposals that Mr Vitorino has been making for some time now, so that the European Union can in fact establish control. We should at least know who is arriving and why, and what we can do for them. – Mr President, I would like to add my voice to the comments of Mrs Villiers regarding the presence of Commissioner Bolkestein and I believe it is fortunate that, in a debate as brief as this one, we have the Commissioner present so that he can reply to us almost immediately. I am not speaking as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs but as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and I would like to express my agreement with the comments by Mr Cox, Mr Goebbels and Mr Herzog. In short, we have a legislative problem. We all agree that Community legislation is very complicated, very ornate and very complex, but the reason why Community legislation is so complicated and ornate is the intergovernmental procedure which is used to adopt regulations and the lack of a genuine Community legislative body which has the capacity to adopt clear regulations. Therefore, while we agree basically with Mr Lamfalussy and the committee of experts, and with the need for clear and rapid Community legislation, we cannot agree with the solution they propose because that would mean more committees and more of the famous comitology procedure. In this respect I must remind you of a famous saying that ‘a camel is a horse drawn by a committee’, with many humps, and Community legislation is camel-like. The comitology procedure currently proposed by the Lamfalussy report would create many more camels and would not create satisfactory legislation. This type of proposal and the continued insistence on comitology is not therefore the solution. The solution lies in creating a clear legislative procedure which allows Parliament to effectively exercise its powers. Otherwise we would simply be allowing the governments to continue playing amongst themselves and drawing Community legislative camels. . –  Mr President, I would firstly like to thank Mr Harbour for his kind words. I think we have worked together to the very best of our abilities in producing this report. We come from different countries, from different political backgrounds and have different sensibilities. This allowed us to approach the issue with a certain degree of impartiality. The work done by Commissioner Kinnock gave us a starting point. His work included a number of fairly well-balanced proposals seeking to make administration more flexible, to encourage the appointment of good staff and promotion on the basis of merits and qualifications. It was a good basis on which to build. As rapporteurs, we had the opportunity to interview staff representatives and representatives of the institutions. We found the Commission had done good work. In my opinion, this is a good and well thought-out package. It could fully meet the needs of European Union civil servants. I would like to draw the attention of the House to the quality of the work of the civil servants of the European Union. At present, we have 25 000 civil servants who administer a substantial budget on behalf of a Community of 15 countries and a population of 380 million people. The European Union has significantly fewer civil servants than a large city would have, even though the EU budget is probably considerably larger. I feel the European Union civil servants do a sterling job. I do not want to introduce any regulations that would prejudice them or create situations that would lead to labour disputes. Like Mr Harbour, I would like to draw your attention to certain statements made by the Council that appear to seek a penny-pinching cutback in the pension plan, in complete contradiction to proposals forwarded to us by the Commission. That said, I believe the amendments Mr Harbour referred to are reasonable and necessary. He made special mention of the correction coefficients amendment. It makes no sense that when staff retire from working for a European Union institution, they can choose to live in any country, but the value of their pension depends on what country they chose to live in. Like any other administration, the European Union must pay all civil servants the same level of pension. It must allow civil servants to be able to select the country they wish to live in permanently. They may wish to live in a cooler place, a hotter place, somewhere cheaper or somewhere more expensive. We must however ensure they have a free choice. I would also like to mention another clause I feel is quite important. The staff regulations contained an anachronistic rule, similar to an ecclesiastical . This rule stipulated that civil servants could not publish a piece of work without the approval of their superiors. In my opinion, we now live in a society which is sufficiently free and civil servants are sufficiently responsible for this rule to be dispensed with. Civil servants understand what they can write. If they were to publish something that damaged the institutions, we would be able to assess whether it was against the law or merely comments they were free to make. We should not introduce preventative censure measures. Furthermore, I think it would be impossible to implement them. I cannot see Commission civil servants reading the works of more junior members of staff dealing with subjects as banal as the structure of the Commission or the structure of the European Parliament. The report also includes proposals to modify the regulations for people of a different sexual orientation, namely gay men and lesbians. We have sought to prevent civil servants of a different sexual orientation from being denied cohabitation benefits because of their sexual orientation and as a consequence of very strict legal criteria. To this end, we have endeavoured to find a flexible formula. Mr President, I believe the proposals we have put forward are balanced. I believe Parliament should have no difficulty in approving them. I think both the Commission and the Council should recognise that they represent Parliament’s wish to collaborate. I therefore hope that the Council in particular will approve the package, taking account of the amendments we propose. Thank you for your attention, Mr President. I trust that tomorrow’s comments on the subject of the oral question will help to clarify the situation with regard to this threat to the pension plan for European Union civil servants. – Mr President, to outside observers, this afternoon’s two issues could seem too esoteric and technical, but, as various speakers have pointed out, these are issues which are affecting the lives of the citizens and, at the moment, as a result of the great international scandals, they are affecting consumers. The Enron case in the United States has been mentioned, but, in my country, Spain, for example, we have a great financial scandal going on, the  case, which has led to the resignation of several top government figures and which could threaten others – the Spanish Parliament is investigating the situation at the moment. When we talk about financial services, we are talking about something which affects the lives of ordinary citizens. It affects their pensions and the future of their savings. We are currently trying to create pan-European financial services, which transcend the borders of Europe. We are concerned to guarantee our companies the greatest possible freedom and the greatest possible opportunity to act within Europe, but, unless we establish a pan-European system of monitoring, so that the operation of these companies is controlled, we run the risk of the kind of frauds and scandals currently taking place on an exclusively national level taking place throughout the European Union. I believe that a system of liberalising financial services throughout the Community is inconceivable unless it is accompanied by a system of monitoring financial activities throughout the Community. We all agree that this issue requires democracy. Democracy means ‘people’s government’, and this is only possible by means of parliamentary representation – in Greece direct democracy was possible because all the citizens met in a public square. The attempt to replace democracy with a system of public consultation, without recourse to the ballot box, by means of computers or public consultations for example – as Commissioner Bolkestein said – is deceitful. The only consultation there is room for today is a public consultation by means of the ballot box and by means of legally elected representatives. At the moment, for example, there is talk of a procedure according to which the Commission’s proposals could be blocked by a simple consultation with business sectors. I believe that nothing could be less democratic than to name the interlocutors who would represent that democracy. We therefore move on to the final point: the proposals of Mrs Randzio-Plath. Co-decision is not something arbitrary, it is a procedure that has meant the participation of Parliament and is the result of a political process. It is true that there is an execution phase and a delegation phase, and that it could be argued that, since the execution falls to the Governments of the Member States, Parliament should get involved in this phase, which is outside the actual activity of control. But, in the legislative field, if we speak for example of delegated rules, I cannot see that it is possible to follow the Lamfalussy procedure unless we establish clear participation by Parliament, by means of the so-called call-back measures. In other words, Parliament, as the legally elected representative of the people, has the right and the obligation to participate in the monitoring of legislative development. As Mrs Randzio-Plath has pointed out, we have just adopted the Lamfalussy procedure, we do not yet have any experience of how it is working and we want to continue to restrict the possible participation of Parliament without verifying whether this procedure is working effectively. Let us see how it is working first, let us see that democratic guarantees are really maintained and, if they are, you may rest assured, Commissioner and Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that this Parliament will be prepared to participate to the full. But democracy cannot consist of participation - for example – by companies, in arbitrary fora, in consultations of a particular nature. No committee can replace the will of the people and that will is only expressed by means of elections, Parliaments and parliamentary representation. This Parliament’s operating system can be improved, the parliamentary structures can be changed in the new constitution, but anything other than the adoption of legislation by means of an instrument elected by the people, with a normal electoral procedure, would be deceitful and would be a way to put decisions into the hands, perhaps, of the very people who would then act as predators to the detriment of the consumers. I believe that we must strengthen our monitoring procedure, strengthen our mechanisms and make them as flexible as possible, and this should be done by means of parliamentary participation throughout the legislative process, from top to bottom. –  Mr President, some of my fellow Members have complained that this debate is taking place at night. I think that Mr Lamassoure, who is very knowledgeable on his country’s history, knows that some of the most important events have taken place at night. I would remind him of the night of 4 August 1789, when the French Revolutionary Assembly abolished all mediaeval and feudal rights. I believe that we are in the midst of a revolutionary process and that Mr Lamassoure – perhaps without knowing – is starting a revolution. We have become accustomed to a European Union that has been developing organically, and maybe this is the reason why Mr Inglewood was not very inclined to agree with the new process. Now Mr Lamassoure is presenting us with a real alternative, that of heading towards a federal Europe. The advantage of a federal Europe, highlighted by some of the previous speakers, such as Mr Karas, is that citizens, who at the moment are completely befuddled by all the Community jargon, will be able to understand it much more easily. For example, if there is a clear distinction between the competences which fall to European institutions and those which fall to Member States, we can dispense with this word which, in any case, no-one understands – subsidiarity. All we will need to say is that it does not fall within the competence of the European Union to deal with a particular issue because it falls within the national competence of the Member States. Therefore, I believe that, on this point, I, like other members of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, have to support the Lamassoure proposal, because it makes particular reference to the Council’s slogan this year, which is ‘more Europe’, a slogan behind my very election as a Socialist MEP, because, in effect, we believe that we need to construct ‘more Europe’ and we believe that the way we can build more Europe is through federal procedures such as those proposed by Mr Lamassoure. I believe there are some problems. For example, I have problems with the special constitutionality appeal, whichincludes the famous subsidiarity appeal. The Court of Justice already acts as constitutional court, including the famous subsidiarity appeal, and I am slightly concerned about this appeal that appears to be on the horizon. We had it in Spain and we had to remove it because it was a means of blocking the process of Community development. I fully expect that tomorrow this Parliament will support the Lamassoure proposal en masse and I hope that this will serve as a basis for work in the Convention and later in the Intergovernmental Conference. –  Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Salafranca on his magnificent report and also Mr Kreissl-Dörfler for his opinion, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on this subject. The Salafranca report is, generally speaking, very comprehensive and quite ambitious. I am only going to make one point, relating to paragraph 60, referring to the need for the Commission and the Council to provide adequate funding; and I would like to relate it to the report presented to us yesterday by the President of the Court of Auditors on economic management in the year 2000. In this report, in paragraph 5.5.8, something very serious is pointed out: that more than 25% of commitment appropriations allocated to Latin America in the year 2000 could not be used, because of administrative shortcomings. It was not made very clear in the Court of Auditors report whether administrative shortcomings were restricted to those countries receiving Community aid or the Community’s administration itself. In response to the Commission, a series of measures have been referred to which would prevent this taking place this year or next, and Mr Salafranca himself refers to another issue, which is the need for extra personnel in the Directorate-General for Latin America. Some time ago the Director of this Directorate-General told me personally, and I am talking about more than ten years ago, that the Directorate did not need more money, but more staff. I still have no idea whether this particular bottleneck has yet been resolved. Finally, one of the proposals put forward by the Commission is to strengthen delegations’ decentralisation functions. I would also like to insist upon something Mr Salafranca has also stressed, which is that a very large country in Latin America with which we have a privileged relationship, Ecuador, still has no delegation, despite previous agreements and commitments made by this Parliament and the Commission itself. – Commissioner, thank you very much for your reply. In fact, I am in a position to verify what the Greek Presidency has said on the issue, but, given that the Commission will have to evaluate the project, I would like to warn you of the following: Firstly, that perhaps the way in which the Ulysses Project was implemented – a first phase in the Mediterranean and then another phase in the Atlantic – meant that during the Mediterranean phase immigration was diverted towards the Atlantic and during the Atlantic phase it was diverted towards the Mediterranean, and therefore in practice the effect was minimal. It would appear, furthermore, that, at least in the first part, there were understanding problems between the different operations. We are now talking about a second project, the Neptune Project, for the central and eastern Mediterranean – I imagine the Commissioner will be up—to-date with this issue – and the question I would put is whether, as a consequence of this second project, by focussing on one area – the central and eastern Mediterranean – there will be a danger of increasing the pressure on the western Mediterranean and the Atlantic. In other words, to what extent the second project can produce that result because it appears that the total flow is always the same: if one side is closed off, immigration is diverted towards the other. – Madam President, I feel much happier after Mrs Reding’s speech, because it seems the Commission has made an effort to bring together those three principles, namely the principle of recognition of Community law, the principle of the autonomy of professional organisations and the principle of the specificity of sport. I was also relieved to hear the last statement to the effect that access to national jurisdiction – or, if appropriate, to Community jurisdiction – remains open. I should just like to ask the Commissioner for further clarification. Is there not a risk that transferring the competence for applying the rules to FIFA and to other professional organisations might lead to the possible transfer of legislative powers from the European institutions to non-governmental organisations such as FIFA, FIFPRO or UEFA? – Mr President, I would once again like to invoke Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure in order to make a personal statement. It appears that the European People’s Party wishes to discount any Socialist intervention by accusing it of harbouring electoral or party-political motives. There is nothing I would like more than to have an influence on the Italian electoral process. The Italian electoral process is taking place in Italy, but in Spain, at the moment, we have a president of the Supreme Court who is awaiting a response from this Parliament and so far he has not received one. – Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I thank you for your detailed reply, but I would like to ask a couple of supplementary questions because I put this question before the tragic events of 11 September. The Council is aware of the current security problems on our continent. So I would firstly like to ask whether the Council is aware that we have an open border across which the European Union’s security cannot be guaranteed? And in this regard, whether the Council is aware that every day hundreds, and every month thousands, of people are losing their lives as a result of maintaining this deceptively open border, because many of those who try to cross it die in the process? That is to say, what can the Council do to prevent this human tragedy from continuing and to guarantee the security of the citizens of the European Union? –  Mr President, Mr Napolitano has hit the nail on the head on this issue. Competence in the legislative and budgetary fields, and in the area of national control, belongs to national parliaments. In the supranational context, these competences can only be exercised by a supranational parliament, whatever structure the Convention or the next Intergovernmental Conference may give to this body. Mr Napolitano has emphasised the importance of maintaining this difference in powers, and most importantly has underlined the real danger of certain powers bypassing the competence of the national parliaments, in the field of foreign affairs and within the third pillar, for example, which should not be entrusted to a supranational Parliament. There is another, much more subtle, way of eroding parliamentary power, which we are now considering, the so-called open method of coordination that is commitology, which is used, for example, in the Lamfalussy report, with few opportunities for parliamentary control, self-regulation or co-regulation. I believe that this is an issue that the Napolitano report has also highlighted and to which we should give our full attention. – Mr President, I will talk exclusively about the issue of the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance. Mr MacCormick has already made some general comments and I do not think I need to insist on the importance of this institution. However, there are two issues that concern us. Firstly, that enlargement is scheduled for 1 January 2004, with it will come appeals and the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance must be prepared. To wait for the 2004 budget to cover these needs would seem to me irresponsible, since the Court must be prepared at least a year before the date on which enlargement takes place. The second issue that concerns us is that of lawyer-linguists. The Court constantly needs to translate texts, submit them, publish them and make them known in the different Community languages. It is not the fault of the Court that the European Union has decided to have such an excessive number of working languages. If these lawyer-linguists are not professionalised in the manner proposed by the Court of Justice, we will find that both the Court of First Instance and the Court of Justice will be faced with enormous difficulties in terms of retaining this kind of staff. Professonalisation is therefore necessary at the moment, since without it we will have no guarantee that the Court will have the necessary staff to carry out its work. –  Mr President, both the Commissioner, Mr Patten, and the Members of this House are well aware of the situation in Peru, and the last speaker, Mr Ojeda, has summed up the situation very well. The starting point for Parliament’s resolution is, in effect, the Commission’s rapid action, and I should like to join in congratulating the Commission and particularly the Commissioner, Mr Patten, on this rapid action. Nevertheless, the purpose of our resolution is to remind us that this initial aid is likely to be insufficient, given the extent of the disaster. We have in fact just been visited by the new President-elect of Peru, Mr Alejandro Toledo, who has met members of Parliament and also the Commission and has told them of his needs. We do not think this is the moment to adopt a resolution on Peru’s economic policy and, in this respect, we do not consider it prudent to support the amendment tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, since we believe it is a subject that requires rather more time for consideration. Above all, we do not believe it is the right moment to tell the government of Peru how it should prepare its budget for 2002. We do hope, however, that, regardless of the overall context of the resolution, the Commission will over the coming weeks and months consider the special situation of this country, which has been through quite a critical time from a constitutional and economic standpoint, and which now, after an impeccable electoral process, seems to have started on the road to recovery in democracy and with the confidence of the whole population. We hope that, based on these views – I repeat, regardless of what happens here – the Commission will go ahead. There is a subject to which the Commissioner, Mr Patten, is quite sensitive: the effectiveness of Community aid. It seems that, in the past, the financial resources earmarked for the Latin American area have not been used fully effectively. Since the start of his mandate, Mr Patten has been concerned with the effectiveness of the operations, and we should like to know whether at this moment (although it may still be premature) the aid that the Community sends is achieving its results, and also what measures he foresees for the development of future aid. While aid is being granted, it is important that it should be monitored and that the Commission should inform us whether in effect this aid that we are approving, which is paid for with our taxpayers’ money, is achieving positive results. Apart from that, I repeat, I want to join in congratulating the Commission and the Commissioner, Mr Patten. I hope that in this new stage Peru may find an important ally in the Commission and the European Union, and that the Commission may soon present to us proposals for aid for the recovery of Peru and aid for cooperation with the Andean Community, which, as we know, finds itself in difficulties, not only in Peru but also in other countries. – Mr President, I think that Mrs Roth-Behrendt has expressed Parliament’s concerns in her main point. Parliament does not think it is a bad idea for the Commission to set up all the consultative bodies it wants, that it should meet with all the non-governmental organisations it wishes, that it should consult everyone through the Internet, or that it should talk to all citizens on a personal level. This seems like a good idea to us and we should probably do the same thing. What worries us is the second part of the White Paper; or to be more precise, the proposals to improve Community regulations. The Treaties of the European Union – as Mrs Roth-Behrendt pointed out – are based upon the principle of the division of powers. Article 6 of the Treaty makes reference to national constitutional principles. All national legislations are based upon the principle of the division of powers, by which legislative prerogatives are under the control of bodies elected by the people. In the case of the European institutions there are two such bodies: the Parliament, directly elected, and the Council, comprised of Ministers responsible to their own national Parliaments. The role of the Commission of the European Communities is to be the Community executive, and the role of Parliament is to support and strengthen the claims of the Commission to be an authentic Community executive. However, if the Commission enters into the regulatory framework and endeavours to take on competences or powers that have been conferred or that should be conferred on the European Parliament by the Treaties, in these areas – as Mr Swoboda and Mrs Roth-Behrendt have stated – the Commission must remain in close contact with Parliament. To be precise, Mr Prodi’s suggestion that the Commission could present the Laeken European Council with proposals on improving Community regulations, without waiting for Parliament to deliver its opinion, seems to me to be a dangerous thing. I hope that the Commission, before putting forward any proposal to the Laeken European Council on improving Community regulations, enters into close contact with Parliament with the aim of listening to our point of view and in this way conveying to the Laeken European Council the Parliament’s concerns and interests in this matter. – Mr President, having heard Commissioner Fischler’s answer it gives me the impression that at the moment on this matter the Commission is completely unprepared. I think that it is only starting to see the outer layer of the problems. Because I was thinking a moment ago that in the last part-session, Commissioner Reding, sitting where Commissioner Fischler is sitting now, gave us a detailed explanation of the agreement that had been reached between the Commission, FIFA and UEFA. That is a business worth many billions of euros and in that case it seems that competition gives way to quality. At times it seems that quality is very important, and I agree with this interpretation. We are talking about a profession, that of a lawyer, which is said to be one of the oldest professions in the world – they say that there is another profession that is older, but I am not going to mention it to avoid being accused of sexism. The law profession is very old and the danger of that is that lawyers deal with quantities. Using the words of Karl Marx, here quality becomes quantity, or the reverse, if you like, because lawyers are defending interests that can be quantified. In the different countries of the Community, or at least in some of them, there is a system of protection through professional organisations, which is not perfect and could be improved but which at least establishes some guarantees, as there are too many unscrupulous lawyers who, left to the free interaction of supply and demand, could be tempted to act and abuse their position. I have the impression that the Commission is currently at a very immature time and therefore that we should look at this subject with a degree of calm. I think that we need to start seeing what is happening – I think that Mr Tannock was referring to this – in the different Member States, what makes it difficult for someone to go to a lawyer and, above all, why people are afraid of going to a lawyer. That is to say, I think that there are real problems, but that those real problems cannot be solved by mathematically applying the rules of Community competition and much less by focusing solely on the criterion of prices. I think that the ideal would be for us to have a professional lawyers’ organisation covering the whole Community, not so much in order to protect lawyers but to protect consumers. We have to think about moving towards an area in which there is protection for people who go to lawyers, protection for consumers, protection for clients, and I think that the conclusion that we could therefore draw here is to invite the Commission to continue to look at the issue and, perhaps with the cooperation of Parliament, to see what the sectors involved say, including, of course, the clients, the people who would like to go to a lawyer, but who normally do not go out of fear. – Mr President, following the discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and furthermore as a result of the presentation of new Commission documents on the same issue of improving Community regulations, my group believes that the report should be referred back to committee, with a view to presenting a proposal in plenum which can receive the widest possible support. – Mr President, the Socialist Group does not believe that the amendments approved in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market reflect the current situation in the field of the patentability of computer-implemented inventions. We must work on the basis that this is not a proposal for a Directive for patenting computer programs. The system for those, as the rapporteur for the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, Mr Rocard, has pointed out, is already regulated by means of a Community Directive. We are talking about the field of intellectual creation, which have very different rules from those which govern the field of industrial protection. Industrial protection, as Mr Rocard pointed out, relates to the application of industrial uses, and we already have well established rules. What has happened here has been a very dangerous tendency on the part of United States jurisprudence, which has allowed purely intellectual creations, which do not have industrial applications as such, to be patented. The attempt to establish a monopoly on computer programs by means of patents has caused justifiable indignation on the part of all those who are currently using the open network in Europe, and whose possibilities for action would be prejudiced. It would represent a backward step in terms of European progress towards the creation of an information society as laid down in the Lisbon Declaration. The Socialist Group therefore believes that the proposal for a Directive must be substantially modified, establishing very clear limitations, so as not to undermine the nature of industrial patenting. We cannot end up in a situation here like the United States situation, in which there are currently certain companies which in practice are able to prevent all work in the field of computer programming. As Mr Bolkestein has pointed out, the European Patent Office has allowed itself to take this dangerous route to a certain extent, as Japanese jurisprudence has also done, for example. And that is precisely why we need a Community Directive. We believe that intellectual property in the field of computers must be maintained and that we need a Community Directive which just regulates industrial applications, not computer programs, and which regulates it in a sufficiently clear way to prevent us from taking that route, so that the jurisprudence of the European Patent Office does not drag the countries of the European Union along the road of the patentability of computer-implemented inventions as such. . – Mr President, Commissioner Byrne has made an enormous effort to bring forward a proposal for a directive in a field in which the Court of Justice had rescinded the previous directive on the complete prohibition of tobacco advertising. In terms of health, I believe that the Community is in a situation worthy of Kafka, because, although we have competence in the field of animal health – from stabling to feedingstuffs and transport – in contrast, in practice our competences in the field of health are minimal. In other words, the European Union has hardly any competences in the field of human health. It is able to adopt certain measures, certain recommendations, certain promotional initiatives, such as cooperation between States and with international organisations, but when it comes to legislative harmonisation, in practice we are faced with deadlock. The Commission has been intelligent enough to try to take maximum advantage of the conclusions of the Court of Justice, what I would call the  of the Court of Justice, in the judgment which rescinded the previous Directive on tobacco advertising. And from the point of view of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the rapporteur in particular has had the greatest sympathy for the efforts of the Commission and Commissioner Byrne to bring forward this proposal for a directive which, as he has said, is much more modest than the previous one. Nevertheless, the rapporteur must acknowledge that there have been enormous difficulties within the Committee on Legal Affairs and, in order to make the negotiation of this directive possible, has had to accept a series of compromise amendments that make up the current text, which has been adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs. We do not yet know what the result of the votes next Wednesday on this issue will be. My impression is that, at the moment, this House is very much divided, since, as some Members claim, certain amendments may even weaken the legal basis proposed by the Commission and, at this moment, specifically, the opinion, for example, of the rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy – who I believe we will hear next – is, of course, opposed to the introduction of amendments. I have the impression that certain of the amendments, at least, are justified, since they are intended to correct some of the aspects of the directive which would benefit from improvements. For example, a generalised extension of the prohibition of the use of certain trade marks could prejudice companies which, in reality, do not produce tobacco; all that happens is that some of the trade marks coincide with those of other companies who do produce it. I believe that each of these amendments will have to be studied carefully. I share Mr Byrne’s concern at the delay which has taken place within the Committee on Legal Affairs. We felt obliged to hold a hearing as a result of the enormous disparity in opinions which had been expressed in committee and, at that hearing, I must acknowledge and point out that the majority of the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs were critical of the Commission’s proposals. The rapporteur has therefore felt obliged to do some rather deft work, trying to bring together positions in order to produce a first text that would reach the plenum in this House. It will therefore be this House which really decides next Wednesday on the fate of each of these amendments. Certain subsequent amendments have been presented, which the rapporteur considers to be acceptable in principle – the amendment by Mrs Hautala, which is intended to strengthen the Commission’s legal basis by means of a recital. I hope that, next Wednesday, regardless of what happens with each of the amendments in the different votes, the text of the directive as a whole can be approved. In other words, I hope that the report is adopted so that the negotiation may continue. Since we are undergoing a co-decision procedure, we all have the opportunity to carry on correcting the deficiencies which may be contrary to the objective of being sure that this new proposal for a directive may pass the test of a further hearing before the Court of Justice, which will undoubtedly take place, because in the field of tobacco there are always hearings before the Court of Justice. The Commission can rest assured that I have an entirely constructive approach towards the object of achieving a final result in relation to this. But I will say again that this is a democratic House and the opinions of the Members vary widely. I even have the impression that there are significant differences between the national delegations within the various parties. The task of the rapporteur in this case must therefore be one of coordination, of good will, if you like, and above all of coordinating the results obtained next Wednesday in this House with the good intention of the Commission and the Commissioner of adopting a Community regulation in the field of health. In any event, it should be remembered that the inclusion of a clause on health in the forthcoming European Constitution is still to be dealt with, and I have the impression that the work of the Convention is not moving in that direction at the moment, which is rather worrying. – I am grateful for your explanations, but I wanted to stress the urgency of the issue. Specifically, this summer thirty or forty people, that we know of, have drowned as a result of the operation of these illegal immigration networks. It is calculated that last year four or five thousand people drowned trying to cross the stretch which separates Morocco from Spain. I would therefore like to repeat the question, Commissioner, of whether there is any possibility that, without waiting for the result of the Barcelona process and the broader renegotiations on association, we can reach a very practical agreement in terms of policing and control so that the Moroccan authorities may prevent these deaths, which are reaching frightening proportions. –  Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for the information you have just given me. To date, some information on the programme’s efficiency has been published. It appears that, despite the existence of the programme, 300 immigrants have been found in the straits zone since its entry into force, which means that it is not being particularly effective. The real problem, however, is that, at the same time, there has been an increase in illegal immigration to the Atlantic islands, which are in a similar position: they are like a receptacle full of liquid from which, if one hole is stopped up, the liquid leaks out of another, with greater force. I wish to ask the Presidency whether it is aware that if the Ulysses programme is effective in stopping illegal immigration in the Mediterranean, it will increase illegal immigration via the Atlantic islands and, therefore, whether the Council is aware of the urgent need to implement the Ulysses programme in the Atlantic territory, as soon as possible, if it wishes its actions to be at all effective. – Mr President, in the Spanish version of the resolution on the Afghan refugees off the coast of Australia there is an error, and I am pointing it out so that Parliament’s services may correct it. In Recital E there is a line missing, since it says ‘allow asylum seekers to request asylum once’ and it should then say ‘they have arrived in Australian territory’. This text simply needs to be modified in accordance with the other versions – I have seen the English, the French and the German. I point this out so that Parliament’s services may correct it. – Mr President, I would like to express my sadness at the fact that my good friend and colleague, Isidoro Sánchez García, is leaving this Parliament, but I am taking the floor for another reason. Yesterday morning two Members, Mr Sturdy, a British MEP, and Mr Ripoll y Martínez de Bedoya, a Spanish MEP, took the floor to complain about the problems faced by Community citizens when registering to vote. Like Mr Ripoll y Martínez de Bedoya, I come from a tourist region, the Canaries. I have also received numerous complaints from Community citizens with regard to their ability to register. I have acquired the necessary information and the problem is that the Spanish legislation on registration would appear to be very detailed; for example, I have two pages here, which are the ones given out, which mention time limits for complaints, etc., and these are normally very difficult for Community citizens to fill in. It seems that the problem is a lack of communication between the Spanish authorities in general. I therefore join Mr Ripoll y Martínez de Bedoya in calling on the European institutions to ensure that Community citizens are registered to vote in this month’s autonomous and regional elections throughout Spanish territory. Mr President, I can actually speak before Mrs Auroi, in order to give her time to arrive. Various political groups tabled motions for resolutions and then we agreed on a joint motion for a resolution, that should now – I believe – have the support of most of the House. As previous speakers have said, the situation in Colombia is a painful issue for all of us, because we had great hopes for the successful conclusion of the peace process. President Pastrana has dedicated his mandate almost entirely to these efforts, with a series of very generous concessions to the guerrilla organisations: he has opened negotiations, both with FARC and the ELN and yet has achieved little. In specific terms, he has given FARC a territory the size of Switzerland, an entire enclave in which they can travel with absolute freedom, and lastly, when it still looked as though negotiations might break down, President Pastrana even extended the agreements or negotiations, in an attempt to conclude an agreement. During this extension phase, FARC launched a campaign of kidnappings and murders, which culminated in the murder of Senator Daniels and the kidnapping of a presidential candidate, Mrs Ingrid Betancourt. At the same time, FARC is continuing its extortion activities, claiming a supposed right to impose taxes on drug-trafficking organisations, which I believe has completely stripped it of any legitimacy, because an organisation that takes part in acts of gratuitous violence and which, furthermore, tries to make money out of drugs trafficking, ultimately loses any basis for legitimacy. At the moment, therefore, we are rather disillusioned and feel a degree of despair, although this does not mean that we are going to give up on the possibility that an agreement can be reached. In other words, the first aspect is to state that FARC has failed to meet its commitments and has all but abandoned the peace process; it has made it impossible for the government to negotiate, because you cannot negotiate with killers and kidnappers. On the other hand, it is necessary to try to restart the peace process and to leave the door open for negotiations. We in the European Union have always supported this process of negotiation, including practical proposals, designed to alleviate some of the specific social problems. It has become clear that the definitive solution to the problem of Colombia does not simply involve an end to the violence, but that we must get to the root of the social and economic problems that are causing this. In order to reach that point, however, peace must first be achieved on the ground. I do not know at the moment whether it is possible to add a little trust and calm to the situation, but I would say that the European Union has – where the problem of Colombia is concerned – the advantage of distance and, furthermore, the willingness it has always shown to help Colombia with its exports, for example, in a range of key sectors. Our resolution aims, therefore, on the one hand, to illustrate the responsibility of those who have caused the breakdown of the peace process and, on the other, to leave the door to negotiation open and to call on the European institutions to patiently continue with this lengthy and complicated task, by providing the aid necessary to make this process easier and, of course, by not giving in to despair, and instead by trusting that, ultimately, there will be a return to reason and to the negotiating table. I believe that the European institutions can work together in this aspect, and we hope that the Commission can indeed help to resolve this deadly and longstanding conflict. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for the full explanation you have given me on the aid to the Bolivian Government. The President has referred to the European Union’s intention to focus its attention on the causes of the crisis. It appears that these causes relate above all to the liberalisation and modernisation requirements in a country which has very serious structural problems, as a result of the international situation. Specifically, my supplementary question is whether, in view of the failure of Sánchez de Losada’s experiment in liberalisation, following the formulae of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the European Union and all the international institutions currently governing world economics have considered the consequences of the failure of these policies which we are imposing on them and the need to reconsider a new type of policy with regard to countries such as Bolivia. – Mr President, I believe that the great majority of Members of this House agree with the conclusions of the rapporteur and Commissioner Vitorino on the need to introduce the Charter into the new European Union Convention. I am only going to refer to two procedural aspects: firstly, the prospect of extending the competence of the Court to hearing cases of an individual nature which, until now, are faced with considerable legitimations from a procedural point of view (from the point of view of the legitimation, interests or the recognition of the individual rights concerned). And secondly, Commissioner Vitorino’s reference to the possible ratification of the European Convention on Human Rights. I believe that the problem is not as simple as Commissioner Vitorino has suggested – as Mrs Kaufmann has stressed – because it is not simply a question of imposing the European Court of Human Rights on a Constitutional Court, but rather of a supranational construction – a Community construction – with a Court of Justice that has very particular characteristics, and imposing a different procedure on it. Although I disagree with most of the views of my predecessor, Mr Stockton, I believe that this issue will probably warrant a study, not in relation to the Charter itself, but also the competences of the Community institutions, in particular the competences of the Court of First Instance and the Court of Justice. I believe that the issue should be studied by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and I am sure that Commissioner Vitorino will pay it the attention it deserves. , . – Mr President, I would like once again to congratulate the Commission on having presented us with a raft of proposals intended to facilitate the adaptation of the European Union to the realities of the new European society. Europe, once a continent of emigrants, has now become a continent of immigrants. The proposals put forward by the Commission aim to facilitate the integration of these immigrant populations into our respective societies. In the debate that took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market on this issue, several amendments were tabled: some were serious, others less so. In the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, the committee responsible, Baroness Ludford made a sterling effort to attempt to refine and perfect the legal concepts, but I am left with the impression that, just because of the odd majority, the text of the directive would be ruined if we were to adopt most of the amendments approved by this Committee. Baroness Ludford, herself, has tabled some proposals in this regard, which appear to us to be correct, and I believe that, in short, the most important thing that this House could do now is to try to steer the text of the Commission proposal back to a form more along those lines. In short, this means achieving the highest degree of equality and comparable conditions between long-term residents from third countries and Community citizens, whilst respecting, naturally, national laws and their constitutional principles, without establishing artificial requirements that would hinder the integration of these people who have already been living in our countries for a long time. To sum up, I believe that what we can hope to achieve as a result of the final proposals presented to us by Baroness Ludford and the debate that took place in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs is that, as far as possible, the House should change the text back to the original Commission proposal and reject many of the amendments that have been adopted, as I have already said, by a chance majority in the Committee on Citizens’ Rights. – Mr President, the figure the Commissioner has given is EUR 40 million, apparently for the period 2002-2004. I would be grateful if you could clarify whether this is only for 2002 and whether it is an experimental programme because, given that, when we talk about the borders of Morocco, we are talking about thousands of kilometres of borders, I have the impression that this sum is entirely insufficient to help the Moroccan Government to carry out the control of those borders. I would like to know whether there is any possibility of this figure of EUR 40 million, if it is considered simply to be an initial figure, being increased so that we may have a sensible programme of cooperation with Morocco which would allow that country to control its borders. – Mr President, I would like to invoke Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure in order to make a personal statement. Mr Galeote referred to me personally, accusing me of demonstrating party-political motives for having raised the issue of Mr Berlusconi and Mr Dell’Utri’s immunity. As a Spanish Member of the European Parliament and as Socialist coordinator in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, this case falls within my competence, and to some extent I am obliged to raise the matter, because it seems to me absolutely shameful that seven months after the president of the Spanish Supreme Court sent a petition to this Parliament, nobody has even had the courtesy to reply to him. Somebody is responsible, either Parliament or the Spanish Government. . – Mr President, with regard to this report I must say that my only job – to use a bullfighting metaphor that the House may not understand – was to go in for the kill, because for a year – between 1 January 2001 and 1 January 2002 – the rapporteur was Mr Marinho and then he had to leave it, and it was therefore he who did all the preparatory work and it simply fell to me in the final phase to take up the amendments proposed and bring about some kind of compromise. In the end there were some sixty amendments. Under Mr Marinho there was a hearing with the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and there was a first stage and a second one with amendments. My job was simply to bring all the strands together. The directive on the use of immovable property on a timeshare basis was approved in 1994 by means of the co-decision procedure and I was Parliament’s rapporteur on this directive. The directive took three years, in principle, to enter into force, but in many countries it was postponed for one year. By the way, I am pleased to say that recently the Spanish Supreme Court passed the judgement that the Spanish Government should compensate private Community consumers for its delay in applying the Directive. I believe that this is a good legal precedent which increases the validity of Community directives. The current Directive is a minimal directive. Certain information obligations were established and also the opportunity for the purchaser to change their mind within a period of ten days, with the sum paid being refunded. But it is clear that, being a minimal directive, it was not going to be able to resolve all the issues raised. In the discussions on this issue in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market over the last two years, it has become clear that for many Community citizens the current system is doing harm and that we should therefore increase the arsenal of instruments at our disposal. From the point of view of Community law, perhaps we will be faced with difficulties. And the difficulty lies in the current concern in all the Community institutions with regard to simplifying the regulatory procedure. We have the Council’s Mandelkern report, we have the proposals of the Commission on European governance and on the improvement of Community regulation and finally we have the agreements of the Seville European Council, which insist on the need to make progress in this area with the participation of the European Parliament. Furthermore, the present Directive is peculiar in that it involves the field of private law, contract law, property law, which are traditionally considered to fall within the competence of the Member States. Therefore, the road before us is not easy. On the one hand, I believe it is a clearly Community field, in that it involves property sold in one country to Community citizens and with responsibilities which may arise at a later date, and, on the other hand, it is – as I said earlier – a question of private law which would not normally be considered a Community matter. Furthermore, the question is raised of the possible use or limitations of the legislative procedure. It has been suggested for example that other types of measure may be useful in this field, such as measures for cooperation between Member States to combat the forms of money laundering that appear in certain types of timeshare companies or simply certain types of fraud. It mentions the possibility of employing co-regulation or self-regulation procedures, for example through the accreditation of operators in this field and there are a whole series of difficulties reflected in the report. Parliament’s report is a compromise report. There is an exhaustive study by the Commission, but it dates from 1999. I believe that the main conclusion is that the Commission must be asked to study the issue again and to present proposals to us as soon as possible which may be either legislative or non-legislative. Specifically, on reviewing the report approved in committee, we detected an error in paragraph 20, which referred to certain infringement procedures which have already been concluded and therefore that paragraph 20 no longer makes sense and should be removed. And there are also some unnecessary repetitions in paragraphs 6 and 7. I would propose that the House vote against those three paragraphs, 6, 7 and 20. With regard to the amendments presented, there are three – Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 4 by Mr Bradbourn, Mr Lehne and Mrs McCarthy, which relate to the stipulation of specific days – which I believe to be too precise for a non-legislative text. And finally, there are three amendments by Mrs McCarthy, which clarify certain aspects in the field of information and responsibilities, which I believe to be very good. I will end my speech here, Mr President, and I hope the House can adopt the draft report tomorrow. –  Mr President, I understand Mrs Hautala’s point of view and I would like the maximum possible number of Members to take part in the debate, but Mrs Hautala’s proposal does not seem relevant because, at the moment, it would appear that many of our fellow Members are on their way here by bus. We do not know when they will arrive and when they arrive they will probably be absolutely exhausted. You do not even know whether they are going to take part in this debate. If the proposal was for the debate to take place tomorrow, I would agree, but leaving it until last today, when these poor people do not even know what they are going to do, does not seem appropriate to me. I therefore believe we should either hold the debate now or leave it for another day this week. – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have not answered my questions on the maritime areas located between the Canaries, Madeira, the Azores and the European Union. 70 000 ships pass through these areas, many of them large oil tankers, real monsters, of 100 000, 200 000 or more tonnes, and at any time an accident involving one of these oil tankers could lead to the economic ruin of many of these islands which are dedicated exclusively to tourism. You will understand better if we imagine this in the context of your own country. Imagine the results of an accident in the Aegean, or an accident in the Eastern Mediterranean, even outside the territorial waters of Greece. What would be the consequences for your islands? Do you not believe, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that the European Union must adopt rules to regulate the maritime areas which endanger its coasts? The United States and Canada have done so, outside their own territorial waters, and I believe that the European Union would have the power to do so. Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, Mrs McCarthy and I have tabled a total of 25 amendments to the proposal for a Directive on consumer credit, for which Mr Wuermeling is rapporteur. As we know, there was an initial stage of indecision, during which the rapporteur thought that the directive was being modified in committee, which led this proposed directive being referred back to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, but, fortunately, we managed to resolve the issue and finally the rapporteur decided, in agreement with us, to present it once again with a series of amendments. Our problem is lack of time. This term of office is coming to an end. During this term of office, Parliament has not been able to complete its examination of the proposed directive and we are limited to a first reading so that the next Parliament may have the opportunity to examine it in depth. Our concern is naturally not to kill off consumer credit – which, for better or for worse, has become an essential part of our lives – and also to provide a guarantee that credit will not end up being a noose around the consumer’s neck. Our amendments are of a different nature. Some, for example, relate to the legal basis. We believe it is important to introduce Article 153 as an additional legal basis in the field of consumer protection and, furthermore, we also believe it is important to point out certain elements in the definitions. In the definitions and above all in the adherence to certain basic principles, such as, for example, the APR – Annual Percentage Rate – which is a concept we have developed here, and we must prevent it from being replaced by other criteria which are much more difficult to understand. In conclusion, we hope that tomorrow's vote may lead to a directive which is clearer to the consumer and that on this basis the next Parliament can definitively approve this directive which is so important for all the European Union's consumers. I thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his detailed reply. However, I would like to ask him whether as from 1 January 2006, pursuant to the new banana regime, the only protection offered to Community banana producers and ACP countries which are also included will be the tariff. The Community has just given up the tariff. Consequently, no protection of this sort will be available after 1 January 2006. I anticipate that the beneficiaries of this measure will be the large multinationals. If I were in charge of a multinational company, I would relocate the plantations from Central America, Ecuador or any other country to one of those least developed countries. The reason would be that thanks to this agreement I would be assured that as from 1 January 2006 there would be no restriction on the import of bananas. My question to the President-in-Office of the Council concerns whether consideration has been given to the implications of all this both for Community producers, some of whom live in very underdeveloped areas of the Community, and for producers in other ACP countries who do not enjoy a particularly high standard of living either. – The elections in Zimbabwe have been both a victory and a defeat for Mugabe. They were a defeat in the sense that, for the first time in its short independent life, Zimbabwe has a multi-party political system, which was something that Mugabe clearly opposed. Apart from tolerating, and even, as we know, promoting, a climate of intimidation and violence, Mugabe has made considerable errors of judgement. On the one hand, he has underestimated the European Union’s seriousness, willingness and capacity to act in the case of Zimbabwe. However, he has also confused the factors within his own country. I wonder if this is due to the arrogance of a former, although once respected, African freedom fighter, or to his ignorance of the sociological and political evolution of his country. It is probably a combination of both things. Mugabe has brought to these elections the customs and methods of a war of liberation, on occasion treating political rivals as if they were colonial occupiers who needed to be banished. However, he was unable to appreciate that the emergence of the middle classes was an element which was going to have a different effect for the first time on these elections. This relative consolidation of a new urban vote, together with the manipulation of official democracy and the violation of human rights, would not otherwise have led to many citizens voting against him, and that is what they have done. The country and the population will gain as a whole if the current government and the emerging opposition show sufficient political wisdom and common sense to generously and cautiously deal with the transition from former political customs to other new ones. In this area, the opposition also has a role to play. Now, after all the accusations and condemnations, in the coming weeks we must watch carefully for any signs of verifiable reconciliation and self-critical acceptance of the errors made. Mr President, this will help the future of Zimbabwe, its society and the new political culture born of these elections. We must give decisive support to its future. – Mr President, on the issue which Mr Nogueira has just mentioned, I would like to refer to an issue which affects this House even more directly. As the House knows, a few days ago a special representative of the European Union – the institution to which this Parliament belongs – Mr Moratinos, was detained against his will for some minutes at the residence of President Arafat, due to the bombing of that residence by Israeli troops. Mr President, I would ask you to communicate this Parliament’s indignation to the Spanish Presidency of the Council at this blatant aggression against a diplomatic representative of the European Union in the fulfilment of his duties, while he was in Palestine with the President of the Palestinian Authority, something which the Israeli authorities had prior knowledge of, as the honourable Members and the President know. – Madam President, the Israeli Internal Security Minister has just said: ‘Palestinian terrorism is trying to demoralise the citizens of Israel, change their daily life and impose fear with a view to the government granting political concessions’. Unfortunately, the Sharon government has been dramatically changing the personal and collective daily lives of the Palestinians for some time. The Sharon government is mistaken in assuming philosophies such as that expressed by Minister Landau, because the Palestinians are not looking for the Israeli Government to grant political concessions. Nobody can grant what is not theirs. The Palestinians simply want the rule of law to prevail and the principles of international law to be respected and put into practice as they have been proclaiming for decades, though so far fruitlessly. The Palestinian demands are clear and easily shared by citizens of good will. They are simply asking for an end to the military occupation they are subjected to. It must be remembered that they are not fighting the Israeli occupiers because they are Jews, but because they are occupiers. They demand the evacuation of the Jewish settlements, established on their territory with the clear objective of making a viable Palestinian State impossible. Finally, they aspire to the proclamation of a true and genuine independent State. I believe that, before it is too late, the European Union is morally obliged to find a system which will lead the occupier to respect international law. It is that simple. I also believe that the forces of reason and of political intelligence in Israel should mobilise themselves in order to convince their co-citizens that the longer the occupation and repression lasts, the more radical the Palestinians will be. I will end by congratulating Commissioner Patten, with whom I am delighted to agree. . Mr President, I would first of all like to express my pleasure and thank all the Members who have joined me in making an effort to achieve the consensus in this report, a report with the significant title of ‘Peace and Dignity in the Middle East’. Unfortunately we are far from peace, and humiliation – rather than dignity – is the order of the day in the troubled lands of Israel and Palestine. However, the report we are discussing expresses the aspiration, in its letter and its spirit, that more and more voices, more and more consciences, should be raised here and over there in favour of this twin objective: dignity and peace, to which we can and must add stability for the region and prosperity for its peoples. It is true, as the report indicates, that it has not been possible to establish a climate of mutual trust between the parties and that recently the enemies of peace have placed obstacles and raised pretexts in the aim of making the Roadmap unworkable, but our duty is to continue trying to achieve it in the immediate, in the medium term and in the long term. Hence the report – at risk of being accused of utopianism – calls on the governments of both parties and those of all the countries in the Middle East to implement a new educational policy based on the notion of education for peace and geared towards promoting mutual tolerance and understanding between the different cultures and religions. While this is being achieved, however, we must confront the inescapable reality of the situation, and we do so condemning the terrorist violence of Palestinian factions, as well the Israelis’ use of excessive military force against the Palestinian people. Regrettably, the latter consideration is particularly timely at the moment and, I would insist, this is regrettable. As stated in the editorial of the Israeli daily newspaper  – and I quote, ‘on Monday, while Sharon was giving an empty speech, lacking any realistic political vision, Israeli helicopters were bombing Gaza, hitting several terrorists, but also killing and injuring many innocent Palestinian civilians’; an odious practice which is not isolated and which, writes , ‘the Israeli army has shown that it is going to pursue’. Something, in my view, which leads the editorial writer – a clear product of a democratic society such as Israeli society – to advise the Israeli Government and army that, ‘they must not, through this policy, undermine the ethical standards which Israel has adopted over the years. If this were the case, Israeli society would become seriously divided, since public opinion would stop trusting in their political and military leaders’. Actually, in that speech on Monday, the Israeli Prime Minister claimed before the Knesset to be an ardent advocate of the Roadmap. Though with the 14 amendments presented not to the Quartet, but, unofficially, to the US administration. Apparently alarmed by the resonance of the so-called Geneva Accord, the peace initiative produced as a result of joint Israeli-Palestinian efforts, Sharon has stated that the Roadmap is the only hope of making progress towards peace with Palestinians. Well, it is time for work. We will rejoice with him if it makes genuine progress. For the moment, however, we will be satisfied if he complies with what the report – on the basis of a consensus – requests from him in paragraph 2: the withdrawal of his army from the autonomous Palestinian territories, an end to selective assassinations and the freezing of all colonisation and of the construction of the security wall. ‘There is no need to sleep to have nightmares’, said a slogan painted on the Berlin Wall. Fourteen years after its destruction, another wall is causing nightmares in Palestine. And while Sharon, in his speech on Monday, said that he had ordered that the wall be speeded up, last night, in the United Nations General Assembly, 144 governments voted to call on Israel to stop it and to backtrack on a construction which the whole planet – apart from Israel and the United States, who voted against – considers a violation of international law. The report deals with various burning issues. For example, on the basis of the necessary constitution of a viable and democratic Palestinian State, it calls on the Palestinian authorities to deal realistically with the so-called right of return for the refugees, so that a realistic solution can be agreed. Even so, as a European, I would insist – and I will end here – that I naturally entirely support the Roadmap, but the report recommends that, in the event that this Roadmap is deadlocked in the immediate future, and in view of the grave consequences that would have, causing greater suffering for Israelis and Palestinians, new options be provided for, in particular, the establishment of an international mandate under the authority of the Quartet in Palestine, which may even include an international force on the ground. – Mr President, we often use the word ‘tragedy’ as if we were talking about a natural disaster, such as an earthquake. To use the word ‘tragedy’ for situations such as the spread of mad cow disease – which is certainly heading towards disastrous proportions – or for the situation in Palestine is, in my view, inappropriate because, in both cases, specific people are responsible. The horrific earthquakes that have struck El Salvador or India cannot be compared with the situation of frustration and humiliation suffered by the Palestinians at the moment. This situation was absurdly aggravated by specific and identifiable people on 29 September on the terraces of the mosques in Jerusalem. I am a friend of Palestine and I am not an enemy of Israel. I believe that the provocation by Ariel Sharon in September, which was permitted by the people who could have prevented it, and the hundreds of Palestinian deaths since then, have created a climate in Palestinian society which makes it difficult for President Arafat to accept late – although maybe reasonable – peace proposals which, had they been presented earlier, would, in my view, have lead to an agreement. Hence, a thorny issue, such as the right to return of the Palestinian refugees, could have been presented by the Palestinian Authority to its own constituents as an issue involving sensitive details which had to be dealt with in conjunction with the Israeli Government on the proviso, of course, that that government agreed, in time, to Palestinian demands that were easier to accept. It remains to be seen whether, on the international stage, the new United States administration will adopt more of an isolationist approach than the previous one. However, I believe that the departure of Clinton has meant that, for the moment, United States diplomacy in the region will be less active. With all due respect and consideration for our American friends, I believe that this is an additional reason for the European Union to make an even greater effort to truly promote its role in the region. Finally, I would like to make a couple of points. Firstly, let us hope that the High Representative, Mr Solana, is right to predict that an agreement may be possible before 6 February –  – but let us not forget that Sharon is still casting his shadow. Secondly, I have just returned from a visit by the European Parliament delegation for relations with the Palestinian Legislative Council and I would like to encourage all of those who are able to do so to go to Palestine, to go to Gaza and the West Bank, to go there, to have meetings, to look people in the eye and listen. Perhaps they would come to understand better. – Mr President, the Israeli threats to assassinate Yasser Arafat are not just morally reprehensible, but also politically unacceptable and absurd, unless, of course, the intention is to cause chaos in the region. It is as if we were not all aware that Hamas and Islamic Jihad consider Arafat to be the barrier preventing them from attempting an assault on Israel. How are the Palestinians going to negotiate with people who intend, in this way, to assassinate their President, democratically elected in 1996 in fair and democratic elections, in the presence of observers, including ours? Frankly, the only legitimate and morally acceptable way to get rid of Arafat is by means of the elections laid down in the roadmap. George Bush has just said, although it sounds like sarcasm, that ‘in the United States we free people by means of a peaceful and ordered process’ but, nevertheless, has vetoed a resolution in the Security Council which advocated just that and expressed opposition to political assassination. I would like to highlight here and now the political realism of President Chirac, who said in New York, and I quote verbatim, Mr President: ‘you may think what you like about Arafat, but the truth is that he is the authority, the elected and legitimate representative of the Palestinian people. I do not believe that anyone else can impose an agreement on the Palestinians’. End of quote. Within this context, and in relation to the settlements, it offers little hope that Colin Powell should have said on Monday, and I quote, that: ‘it is very difficult, if not impossible, for the Israeli Prime Minister to say to his people that he is giving in to American pressure’. End of quote. I would ask myself: have the Palestinians not given in, by reforming the Ministry of Finance and creating the post of Prime Minister against the initial will of Arafat although, at the end of the day, with his assent? Incidentally, however, if you wish to listen to an Israeli voice on the subject of Yasser Arafat, then please listen to Simon Peres, who – on reaching 80 years old – has said: firstly, that Arafat has accepted the theory of two states, abandoning that of the destruction of the state of Israel; secondly, that he has accepted the 1967 borders, abandoning those of 1948, and, thirdly, that he has agreed to negotiate. Simon Peres says – and it is true – that Yasser Arafat only has one significant fault, which is that he is not combating the fundamentalist militias of Hamas and Jihad. I, however, would say that until the Israeli Government adopts specific measures, which are credible to the Palestinian population, on selective assassinations, the settlements or the wall of shame, for example, no Palestinian will enjoy the popularity and political support necessary to combat the Islamic extremists. Mr President, not until the non-terrorists have a consolidated political space, which so far Israel has not provided, will the terrorists have lost the war. Mr President, the difficulties faced by the peace process in the Middle East are well known. As for the political obstacles to be tackled, these are all too apparent. The weight of the political problem is in fact so great that it could discourage us when considering an obstacle such as the incorrect application of this trade agreement, which in principle is only a legal problem. Some might therefore consider it reasonable to argue that, since the irregular exports to Europe from the Israeli settlements in the occupied territories are not regarded as a priority political problem, these should be halted until a final peace agreement is achieved. However, I believe that the repeated failure to comply with previously concluded legal agreements, combined with the accumulated frustration at non-compliances in other areas, could become a political issue which might prejudice the peace process itself. Specifically and regrettably, in a conflict like the Israeli or Palestinian conflict, everything ends up being politicised if appropriate measures are not taken in time to prevent this happening. In this respect, the answer given by Mr Prodi, at the beginning of his trip to the Middle East just two days ago, to a journalist’s question on this issue, is nonsense. He said that this issue was not on the agenda as this only concerned political issues. Frankly, I believe that the Commission must act if it is proven that preferential access to Community markets is being gained by products originating from these settlements. As the Commission itself states and international law determines, these settlements are not part of the territory of the State of Israel. The fact that Europe is basing its actions on international law in its relations with the parties to the peace process can only benefit Israel. Finally, I want to ask the Commission, which I am sure intends to apply the current agreement, if it has planned any special additional effort or mechanism to make this application more effective in this particular case. Mr President, we are facing an absurdity, a paradox. We are discussing the legality and legitimacy of products originating from entities, the settlements, which international law considers to be illegal. Established by military force in occupied territories, the withdrawal from which the European Union, the United Nations, the United States, and practically the entire international community consider to be essential in order to create a viable Palestinian State able to live in peace alongside the State of Israel. With regard to the issue on which this debate is based, achieving correct application of the EC-Israel Association Agreement, I do not mind what is done nor how it is done and I do not mind what law is applied nor how. But it must be made clear that Israel cannot continue to unilaterally apply the Association Agreement to settlements which must disappear in order for peace to be possible. To allow this to continue in a unilateral fashion would be another absurdity, an insult, a humiliation which this Parliament at least must combat. This is not the time, and nor do I have the time, to once again condemn the Sharon Government’s lack of political will to achieve peace. It is sufficient at this point to insist on the issue which we are dealing with this morning, and that is that the Israeli Government cannot issue proof of origin to products which, in accordance with Community law, are not eligible for preferential treatment as a result of originating from the colonies established in the occupied Palestinian territories. We must remember once again the Commission’s clear statement of 10 May 2001 that exports from Israeli settlements in the West Bank and Gaza, within the framework of preferential treatment, are violations of the commercial agreements between the Community and Israel. If only for tactical reasons, it would do no harm to remember that on 10 April 2002 this Parliament approved a resolution on the Middle East, paragraph 8 of which calls on the Commission and the Council to suspend the Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement between Israel and the European Community. – Mr President, we are all delighted that the peace process in the Middle East has been relaunched. Nevertheless, we know that the history and circumstances of the conflict are dramatic and that, over the years, various initiatives which seemed to open up a future of hope, have ended up being blocked as a result of intransigence, a lack of political will or the short-sightedness of one of the sides involved. This is why serious obstacles to achieving a peace which is just, such as the constant establishment of Jewish settlements in Palestinian territory or the lack of respect for what East Jerusalem means to Palestinians, Arabs and Muslims in general, have made the road to peace a difficult one. Peace is a concept which should not be defined as merely the absence of war.  In order to ensure that, this time, the way forward for hope which has opened up after the signing of the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum is not closed in the future, the political sensitivity and intelligence of the new Government of the State of Israel, whose security we want to see guaranteed, must come up with measures which are capable of creating a lasting confidence on the Palestinian side, so that the peaceful way forward, recently reopened, reaches its final goal as soon as possible. – Mr President, I thank Mr Solana and Mr Patten for continuing, in spite of everything, with their already excessively longstanding efforts to achieve peace in the Middle East. We are clearly facing a frustrating, cruel and, if I may say so, surreal, situation. It is surreal because we are facing a situation in which the Prime Minister of Israel does not support the constructive conclusions of his Foreign Affairs Minister. It is also surreal because Mr Sharon – who regrets not having destroyed Mr Arafat, who he describes as irrelevant, in Beirut in 1982, and who calls the Palestinian Authority a terrorist organisation – is meeting with three notable members of this so-called terrorist organisation. It is surreal because Mr Arafat is under great pressure to combat terrorism but, at the same time, Israel – and we are allowing it – is bombing and thereby destroying the resources available to the Palestinian Authority for combating that terrorism. This surrealism, however, is welcome if it can bring us closer to peace and development in the region, not only for Palestine. I would like to say however – and I hope I am wrong – that I hope these talks by Mr Sharon with these supposed terrorists from a supposed terrorist organisation, are not simply another attempt to gain time before his meeting with President Bush in Washington tomorrow. I would like to ask the High Representative, Mr Solana, a question relating to the famous seized vessel, the : it appears that the people who are trying to ascertain whether the evidence of Iran’s involvement is reliable are working on the basis of stronger evidence than the appearance of arms which are ‘made in Iran’, because we all know that the fact that arms are manufactured in a particular country does not necessarily mean that they are supplied by the government of that country. Mr President, I say this – and I will end here – because, in this era of trilateral evil, and the demonisation of the situation and the desire to spread suspicions all over the place, it could be a fatal error to encourage suspicions of this type in relation to those invisible enemies which Mr Bush is currently dealing with. Mr President, following an intense and controversial debate, the Socialist Group has decided to support the report we are dealing with. My group has decided to distinguish between the scientific and technical nature of the report and the political nature of the conflict, while condemning the attitude of the Sharon Government which – with its policy of indiscriminate killings, with the construction of a wall which steals even more Palestinian territory and its failure to evacuate settlements – is blocking the Quartet's roadmap and making it increasingly difficult to establish a viable Palestinian State. Furthermore, my group believes that on the issue of scientific and technical cooperation we should take particular account of the society which may benefit from that cooperation. Talking now on my own personal behalf, I would like to say the following: in the explanatory statement, the rapporteur acknowledges that the extension of the agreement, and I quote, ‘comes at a politically critical time in which the Middle East peace process is floundering’. I would say that floundering is something of an understatement. It is in such serious danger that only decisive action on the part of the Quartet, which so far has not been taken, could save it. The rapporteur also says that, and I quote, ‘it may help ease the tensions, since it will also enable Palestinian researchers and institutions to work together with Israeli and European institutes’. I frankly doubt that this would be the case. We are dealing with a situation of military occupation which goes much further than the concept of ‘tension’. And, furthermore, I believe that Palestinian researchers and research institutions will find it very difficult to benefit when they are surrounded by a wall which denies them freedom of movement and which encloses them in ghettos and Bantustans which bring shame on humanity. –  Mr President, Mr Solana was kind enough to say he had devoted a good deal of time to my report. I should first like to thank him for doing so. I should also like to thank Commissioner Monti for his kind words. I broadly endorse Mr Poettering’s remarks also. They provide an indication of the degree of consensus reached. The title of the report I have been privileged to draft refers to peace and dignity in the Middle East. I chose these two words deliberately, because I think they provide a clear indication of how things stand and what we need to aim at. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights Common Security and Defence Policy adopted this report by a broad majority. I am therefore now in a position to have the pleasure of speaking on this text on behalf of the committee, not just as a socialist. It is worth mentioning that the report does enshrine a broad consensus on a number of key issues. This consensus was referred to earlier in the House. Given the short time at my disposal, I shall only refer to a few of the relevant issues. For instance, we all hope the Road Map will remain in force. We are all united in calling on both parties to keep it alive. We are of course united too in our condemnation of terrorism. Nonetheless, we are adamant that the peace process must not be blocked or put in abeyance because of terrorism. The terrorists would actually see this as a success. We call on the Quartet and on the parties concerned to declare the city of Jerusalem a cultural and religious heritage of mankind. We also call for Jerusalem to become a dual capital, at once the capital of the State of Israel and of the future Palestinian State. We hope this will come about at the earliest opportunity. Further, we call for an international presence in the area. We believe that an international force should be dispatched there when the time is right and subject to the consent of both parties. We do of course believe that the State of Israel has the right to defend its citizens and its security. This right must, however, be tempered by the rule of law. The rights of Palestinian citizens must also be taken into account. On the one hand, we invite the Palestinian side to reorganise its security forces and make tangible visible efforts to dismantle terrorist organisations. On the other, we call on the Israeli side to withdraw its army from the autonomous territories. We also call on Israel to put an end to targeted killings, and freeze all settlement activity and the building of the security wall. Many pertinent comments on the latter have been made in the House already. Lastly, I should like to refer to an amendment supported by the rapporteur. This is an amendment designed to deal with a hypothetical situation in which the Road Map was blocked. Of course, we hope this will not happen, as it would have drastic consequences and lead to still greater suffering for Israelis and Palestinians. Nonetheless, alternatives need to be in place, notably the establishment of an international mandate in Palestine under the authority of the Quartet. This would include an international force on the ground. Mr President, I should like to conclude on a strictly personal note. The acts of war perpetrated by Israel against Syria last Sunday are a violation of international law and fly in the face of political reason. It is my earnest desire that they do not lead to something even worse. Madam President, I have to say that I am not particularly interested in entering into a debate on this wall of shame at the International Court of Justice. Clearly, this barrier is a moral outrage and a political mistake. I fear, however, we are running the risk of putting up a different kind of barrier. I feel we are creating a smokescreen by spending our time on this matter instead of exerting the pressure, force and political will required to really push the Israeli-Palestinian peace process forward. This notorious barrier certainly does hinder the creation of a Palestinian state. Nevertheless, the existence of the settlements also makes the establishment of a viable state impossible. Further, the absence of any political will to act appropriately represents a far greater impediment to the creation of such a state. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that a number of other significant smokescreens are also emerging. There is, for example, the recent announcement made by the Bush administration that it is preparing a grand plan to restructure the Arab-Islamic world and to bring it under the umbrella of Western security. Now it seems that extreme right-wingers in the US are referring to a great restructured Middle East as their main foreign policy priority. This, they say, will facilitate the ending of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. To be frank, I cannot take seriously a plan claiming to bring about democracy and prosperity from Morocco to Pakistan overnight. Rather, I think this plan is another attempt to distract public opinion in the run up to the November presidential elections. This same public opinion has now realised that President Bush’s electoral imperatives take priority over the supposed intentions to advance the Middle East peace process. Furthermore, this supposed grand plan for the Middle East could make the Israel-Palestinian conflict appear less central. There seems to be a suggestion that the European Union be involved in the plan. It should be remembered that the European Union is a key player in the Barcelona process. This process will not succeed, at least not fully, until there is an end to the confrontation between Palestinians and Israelis. The other smokescreen is the one currently being created by Prime Minister Sharon. The latter is forever announcing painful concessions he never implements. He has proved unable to remove the illegal settlements in the West Bank. I have in mind the small number of caravans scattered across a few hills on the West Bank. He is now saying that the Gaza townships will be abandoned. I am quite prepared to give Prime Minister Sharon the benefit of the doubt for the time being. It is to be hoped, however, that this grand plan does not turn out to involve relocating the Gaza settlers in the West Bank enclaves. The latter constitute the real impediment to the viability of the Palestinian State the Quartet hopes will be established. – Mr President, as the motion for a resolution tabled on this issue by the majority of groups in this House maintains, the financial commitments of the European Union in the Middle East should go hand in hand with a clear political presence, and the Union should be involved in all the negotiations in the peace process. For decades – almost as many decades as the conflict in the region has lasted – broad sections of European public opinion have mobilised themselves with the intention of contributing to a situation where hate and senselessness may give way to rationality, harmony and simple common sense amongst the parties involved. Nevertheless, such public resolve has not been proportionately reflected in the European institutions. There have certainly been notable declarations on the matter, such as the Venice declaration, but they have languished over the years. Such a political absence, the lack of genuine political will to act and the simultaneous existence of too many discordant national voices not only damages the Union in terms of the common European project, but also disappoints the expectations of many non-Europeans who would be happy to see us acquire greater responsibility and suitable coordination between external policy and other policies. I ask myself and I ask you, representatives of the Council and the Commission, whether the recent appointment of a High Representative of the CFSP will go hand in hand with the establishment of a genuine common and Community political will. –  Mr President, as rapporteur for the report on the Middle East, I decided some months ago to focus on what is known as the ‘Roadmap’. I felt it would be absurd to do otherwise when the Roadmap is currently the Union’s guiding principle and when the Palestinian Authority – although I do not know how many Palestinians – support this document and the process it sets out. In all honesty, I am not convinced at the moment that Ariel Sharon has any great enthusiasm, either for the process or for the document. I say this for the following reason: when the Prime Minister presented the Roadmap to his government, he described it as a ‘necessary evil’ and secured his cabinet’s vote by stating that the 14 reservations or amendments presented to Washington – not to the ‘Quartet’ – are non-negotiable. The Prime Minister made no mention of having to remove settlements, which is crucial if a viable Palestinian State is to be achieved. Furthermore, Prime Minister Sharon declared on 27 May in the Knesset that the settlements would not be discussed in the context of the Roadmap, but bilaterally between Jerusalem and Washington. Israeli television also stated on 10 June that Washington had accepted Israel’s request for matters to proceed in this way. In light of these details, I wish to ask the High Representative whether he believes that this information and specifically this bilateral agreement on settlements between Jerusalem and Washington, if confirmed, might constitute a breach of the Roadmap. I should also like to ask the High Representative whether, in his opinion, Israel's 14 reservations or amendments, if accepted, could destroy all prospects for the process and for peace itself. – Mr President, Ariel Sharon is a man of war, it is part of him, he promised to destroy Oslo and that is what he is doing at the moment. He confuses the aim of fighting terrorism with the liquidation of the Palestinian Authority and the daily carrying out of massacres. Using his tanks, and with our consent, he has managed to establish a new political-administrative category: now there are occupied Palestinian territories and re-occupied Palestinian territories. I welcome the advice given by President Bush that the perpetrators of the massacres withdraw from the places they have cruelly and unnecessarily destroyed. Powell has pointed out that the President does not give orders to the Prime Minister of a sovereign country, but it does not appear that the advice has done much good. Sharon will decide to order a withdrawal when the massacre is finished. Unless we all, those of us who do not carry out massacres, decide jointly that there is a limit, even for sovereignty, when that sovereignty is employed in a way that goes against the dignity and ethics of humanity. I found Secretary of State Powell more lucid when he said that we may be radicalising a whole new generation of Palestinians and that many new terrorists are perhaps waiting to act when the current operation ends. That is the possible effect, to put an end to the moderates. The day before yesterday, as we know, almost a million Moroccans demonstrated in Rabat against Sharon and in support of Palestine. They are moderates or radicals. If amongst all of us we do not stop Sharon now, hate and radicalisation will spread throughout the Islamic world. We must take concrete and appropriate action now. – Mr President, inconsistent and contradictory events are currently taking place within the Israeli State and society. It is true that the 100 000 peace demonstrators in Tel Aviv on 11 May offered the hope of a social reaction to the barbarity of Sharon. The slogan of that demonstration was meaningful enough: "For the sake of Israel’s salvation, we must withdraw from the occupied territories". However, other forces of a different kind are working hard to eliminate not just the process, but also the spirit of Oslo. It is true that Netanyahu took it upon himself to create a Likud central committee according to his own wishes before losing power in 1999. Perhaps this puts the recent vote of that body against the creation of a Palestinian States into perspective, but the resolution exists. As if that were not enough, Netanyahu has just said: A state, with all the rights of a State [a Palestinian State, that is], is not possible. Not with Arafat; not with any other leader; not today and not tomorrow. Likud has acted just hours after the Heads of State of Egypt, Jordan and Syria – Syria, no less, and I stress this – said literally: we reject all forms of violence; we confirm our desire for a genuine peace with Israel. As we know, the Israeli Parliament yesterday agreed that Israel would not reopen political negotiations with the Palestinians until two requirements are met: a complete end to violence – I stress the adjective ‘complete’ – and a thorough reform of the Palestinian administration. Sharon stresses this: there will be no peace with a dictatorial, corrupt and tyrannical regime. There must be another Palestinian Authority. A few hours ago, President Arafat made some excellent comments: accepting external involvement, he told his Parliament that the time has come for changes, reforms and elections and he condemned suicide attacks. Sharon – of course – has just said that Arafat has said nothing new. Since we can expect him soon to invent a new pretext for preventing the creation of a Palestinian State and the onset of peace, I believe that the famous Quartet should take precisely the opposite stance. Mr President, referring to the Mediterranean and the Middle East, the Council has just indicated – and I quote – ‘the Union’s willingness to work with the United States for the purposes of cooperation in the region’. It would be no bad thing, in my view, if Washington did the same and expressed its fervent desire to cooperate with the Union. I believe that this would involve the following: a sensitive, rather than blunt and brutal, drawing up and presentation of its proposed plan for the democratisation of the Middle East. It would also involve objectives in line with reality and common sense, bearing in mind, in my opinion, that excessive ambitions, since we are talking about an area from Morocco to Pakistan, may lead to looking foolish, firstly, and then failure. And, above all, I believe the United States should accept that it is impossible to confront such a vast enterprise, without treating the resolution of the Arab-Israeli conflict as a priority and prior objective. Israel rejected the Saudi peace proposal, ratified in Beirut by the plenum of the Arab League, and has blocked – and let there be no mistake, it has blocked – the road map and decided to continue along its own unilateral course, which includes extra-judicial assassinations. In my opinion – I would insist – these circumstances, together with the assassination of Sheikh Yassin, have led to the suspension of the new Arab Summit, scheduled for yesterday in Tunisia, and I believe that no possible initiative for a so-called ‘Greater Middle East’ can succeed in any way in this context. We simply have to look at what King Abdullah of Jordan, who we all know to be a clearly moderate leader, said the day before yesterday – and I quote, ‘the assassination of Sheikh Yassin, a week before the Arab League Summit, demonstrates that the Israelis wanted the meeting to fail and for the Arabs not to be able to relaunch their dialogue initiative, because Israel does not want peace’. If a moderate leader says what I have just quoted, the Union must take note of what this implies and take action as a consequence. I will end, Mr President, by saying to Mr Laschet, who has just spoken – although I regret that he is not here – that I agree with him when he says that we must talk less about the extra-judicial assassinations violating international law, because we all condemn them. The problem is that these assassinations take place, we all condemn them, but none of us act to put an end to them. – Mr President, Arabs and Palestinians have committed terrible historical errors and injustices, but they have also paid the price for them. For some time now, it is not the Palestinians who have been the most intransigence in the negotiations. Indeed, they have even given ground in the supposedly neutral area of basic concepts. Given the cultural and religious importance of Jerusalem for the Islamic world, I believe that the Palestinian renunciation of all rights over that city – East Jerusalem – could lead not only to a backlash from broad sections of the Palestinian population against their own leaders, but also an international Muslim mobilisation against them. Media and political circles are warning that the Palestinians could waste the historic opportunity of being able to negotiate with a Prime Minister such as Ehud Barak, who has dared to put the issue of Jerusalem on the table openly. Nevertheless, it is also the case, in my opinion, that Barak and the right-thinking political and social sectors in Israel could lose the excellent opportunity to negotiate with a leader such as President Arafat if they do not fulfil the minimum necessary requirements. In my view it is now necessary to adopt a formula which allows for this right thinking and I believe that the European Union is in a good position to contribute to this. Mr President, paragraph 51 of this Parliament’s recent Resolution on the results of the European Council states that ‘without strong pressure on the two sides, the Road Map will remain ineffective’. Naturally, I believe that the Road Map is still ineffective and I wonder what has happened to the pressure on Israel. Parliament also calls on ‘the United States Administration to assume their responsibility vis-à-vis the present crisis’. In my opinion, that government has not only failed to assume its responsibilities, but has given in to the Israeli Government. Powell’s comments of last Thursday are, in my view, a mixture of absurd wishful thinking and cynicism, when he said that the meeting between Bush and Sharon has produced positive results for the Palestinians and their aspirations for a State. This is demonstrated by the fact that the minister without portfolio of the Israeli Government, Gideon Ezra, stated on Friday that Powell’s comments, intended to soften Bush’s pro-Israeli tone, do not reflect the opinion of Bush himself. Parliament’s Resolution also calls for both parties ‘to make a serious effort to resume genuine negotiations’. In my opinion, the Palestinian National Authority has been waiting for months for the resumption of those negotiations, but it is clear that Israel does not want to negotiate with the Palestinian National Authority and is prepared at this point, with the full support of Bush, to withdraw unilaterally from Gaza outside the framework of the Road Map. It has become sufficiently clear, in my view, that it is not a question of Gaza first and West Bank second, but of Gaza only. Following so many events we should remember another two paragraphs of our Resolution; paragraph 48, included following the killing of Sheikh Yassin, which: ‘calls on the Council and the Commission to consider acting in full compliance with Article 2 of the Association Agreement with Israel should the policy of extrajudicial killings continue’. Well, the extra-judicial executions are continuing, most recently of Abdel Aziz Rantisi. I therefore believe that Parliament must reiterate its request to the Council and the Commission. Also, finally, in paragraph 49 Parliament ‘asks the Council to invite the Member States in the UN Security Council immediately to table a proposal for an international peacekeeping force at the 1967 borders, with the mandate to protect both the Israeli and Palestinian peoples from terrorist attacks, military incursions and interventions’. We must also reiterate that demand. – Mr President, war is a grave thing. Erasmus said that war is sweet to those who do not know it. I believe we must condemn those who employ hypocrisy, double standards, half truths and total distortions in order to take us to war. It is unacceptable to hear prominent speeches which, rather than promoting a genuine fight against terrorism, that is, against Al Qaida, disseminate fallacies about supposed ideologies of power and domination which are equated with militarism, when at the same time the speaker boasts of having the best army in the world. A little self-analysis on the part of those who accuse the Iraqi dictator of representing a world of constant alarm and chaos would reveal who really represents an ideology of power and domination and who provokes constant alarm in the world. Nevertheless, I believe we should be pleased to see the continuous growth within the Member States of a movement rejecting war, and positions such as that of General Schwarzkopf who, taking the approach of Erasmus, has just accused the Minister for war, Rumsfeld, of undervaluing the army and of relishing the idea of going to war, or such as that of the Democrat Senator Joseph Biden, who has accused Bush of promoting the greatest wave of anti-Americanism for 30 years. Furthermore, the Italian Prime Minister, Silvio Berlusconi, has just said that he is in favour of peace but that he cannot share the responsibility for backing down in the face of those who threaten our security, freedom and democracy. I believe that, with sophisms of this type, it is we who endanger our freedom, our democracy and our principles and of course our security, because a society which allows lies and distortions in order to dominate the oil market and indulge in strategic whims of an imperialist nature weakens itself in the medium term and thereby jeopardises its cohesion and security. –  Mr President, the Salafranca report comes at an opportune moment. The implementation of a global partnership and common strategy with Latin America, driven by Europe, is something that has always been worthwhile, but now more than ever, since 11 September, when international relations are clearly in a state of upheaval. This strategy and partnership driven by Europe comes at a time when a partner, in a different region, is going through difficult times, of which we are all aware. However, as Europeans, we should have clearly defined ideas. The partner to which I am referring will get through its bad patch over time and will once again turn its attention to Latin America. It has a right to do this, but Europe has values and interests that are not always the same as those of the United States. We only have to mention the mere existence of Mercosur or Alca or, simply, the different positions we maintain with regard to areas such as the death penalty or the Permanent Court of International Justice. With regard to the objectives of the common strategy that have been mentioned, it is laudable, of course, to aim for the implementation of a Euro-Latin American area of peace and stability, in addition to the signing of a peace charter, a task that in my opinion would be difficult to achieve, but not as difficult as reaching equivalent objectives, such as those sought by the Barcelona process for Euro-Mediterranean cooperation, whose execution has not so far made it possible to solve the Middle East conflict. On the other hand, I applaud the intention of sharing prosperity through the creation of a free trade area by 2010, or thereabouts. However, I would like to allude once more to the Barcelona process in order to warn that the process that we are hoping to achieve for Latin America should take account of inequalities, that is to say, the different economic weight of the partners, because this could lead to trade being free for all, in theory, but, in practice, being subjected to the most onerous of burdens, that is to say, true inequality that as we all know can be widespread throughout Latin America. This could mean that our supposed free trade will become nothing more than a slogan. So, if our intention is to create a partnership between members who are supposed to be equal, when it is obvious that they are not, it is important that we can resort to a fundamental instrument. I am referring to a genuine development cooperation policy, which is the only thing that can minimise, although I fear this will not happen before 2010, the enormous socioeconomic differences that exist today between the European Union and Latin America and even between Latin American partners themselves. Lastly, I would like to remind the ultra-liberals that not only is development aid compatible with free trade, but that it requires it, except when free trade is understood to be solely based upon cynical and even cruel inequalities. On occasions, decent trade is not possible without efficient and transparent development cooperation providing the basis for a free, but fair, game. – Mr President, on the issue of Iraq, Europe is not divided. Its governments are, but its public opinion is not. As we all know, the majority of European public opinion is united against war. So the discussion on the division of Europe, in relation to the CFSP, must take this aspect into account. And, incidentally, the European citizens should take this into account when casting their votes in the forthcoming elections. However, there is an aspect which worries me particularly and that is the high number of governments of European candidate countries who have joined an operation which, rather than reinforcing European values and principles, supports the warlike approach of a non-European superpower whose values, such as the death penalty and the rejection of the International Criminal Court, are not our values. Having said that, I also have faith in the public opinion of those candidate countries. I am less optimistic when it comes to the gulf separating us from the United States, or rather the gulf which the Bush Administration is widening every day. I believe it is a bad sign that some sections of the so-called ‘liberal’ press in the United States are tending to jump on the war bandwagon and that in doing so it is furthermore using insults which are not supposedly worthy of it. Thus, regrettably, we have recently read this sentence in the New York Times: 'Only an imbecile or perhaps a Frenchman could be insensitive to Colin Powell’s arguments'. Well, I would declare myself French and insensitive.  This francophobia is being cultivated alongside germanophobia. It has just been said insultingly of the other unfortunate partner from the old Europe: 'The Germans do not play any important role in international decision-making', said by Richard Perle, one of Minister for War Rumsfeld’s tough advisers. Well, in view of this I would declare myself to be German and a Social Democrat.  In my opinion, though, the greatest and most significant blunder is from Richard Boucher, spokesman for the State Department. As you know, Bin Laden has just said in a very timely manner that, in the face of the aggression being prepared, all Muslims should support the Iraqis, despite the fact that the latter are socialists and apostates. Rather than coming to the opposite conclusion, Mr Boucher not only states that this proves the links between Al Qaeda and Iraq, but he also adds: 'We have already said that this is a fight by civilisation to protect the civilised countries'. So it now turns out, Mr President, dear friends, that the Bush Administration sponsors war between civilisations. –  Mr President, although the lack of political will to date by the Sharon government, which has recently resigned, and its use of the security argument as a pretext have prevented the reopening of the peace process, this process could now peter out entirely. As states in its editorial this morning, the government that has just resigned has been a terrible one. Its policy of using force in the occupied territories has not ended terrorism and has inflicted the greatest human bloodshed on Israel since the war in Lebanon. Its relations with Egypt and Jordan and even with Europe itself have never been worse, as we know. There has not been so much fear and so little hope in Israel for a long time. The economic situation, as we also know, is terrible. Unemployment is increasing. This is, of course, largely although not entirely due, in my opinion, to the war with the Palestinians, which is incompatible with prosperity. The advocates of peace have to go to enormous lengths to convince the majority of their fellow citizens that any improvement in their economic and social situation depends precisely on re-establishing political negotiations with the Palestinians; that a new national agreement must be reached in order to reach a good agreement with them. The Palestinians, for their part, must understand that an absence of terrorism in Israel will help these advocates of peace. I believe that the Palestinians are moving in that direction. It was announced on Israeli radio yesterday that Al Fatah and Hamas will meet next week in Cairo to negotiate an end to suicide attacks in Israel by Hamas. I wonder if Israel will frustrate these efforts, as it has done on previous occasions, with a new deadly assault on Gaza or the West Bank. The European Union must actively support these advocates of peace. –  Madam President, whilst we are talking here today in this House, in the Middle East, Israeli tanks are once again occupying the supposedly autonomous Palestinian territories. The Israeli army continues to carry out extrajudicial executions and its planes are still bombing Palestinian police – not army – headquarters, a police force that has no freedom of movement but which has been asked to dismantle terrorist networks and to detain all suspects. I am not ignoring the fact that the Council, and especially the High Representative, Mr Javier Solana, are redoubling their efforts to achieve some kind of tangible result. I wonder whether the declaration made by the Council last Monday will contribute to this in any way. In any case, I would like to refer to this declaration. In it, the Union, as is well known, insists, in the following order: firstly, that the Palestinian Authority dismantle the terrorist networks, detain all suspects and make a public call for the end of the Intifada. Next, in second place, that the Israeli Government withdraw its armed forces, put an end to the extrajudicial executions and also to the blockades and restrictions that oppress the Palestinian people, and that they put an end to the building of settlements. I applaud this declaration, like Prime Minister Sharon, who stated that this is the first time such a demand in the fight against terrorism has been addressed in such a clear and unambiguous fashion to Arafat by the Union. Obviously, Sharon’s satisfaction refers solely to the EU’s demands to the Palestinian Authority. There was no declaration from Sharon on the Council’s demand that Israel end its violence. The Israeli Minister for Foreign Affairs, Shimon Peres, also liked the declaration. He said that he thought it was ‘a responsible European stance’, which was a more positive statement than that given by Sharon, but he went on to state that the Israeli military action is necessary. He states that this action – which the EU calls for an end to – is necessary to prevent attacks being made on Israeli citizens, and added that ‘it is very easy to give advice to countries whose problems are very different from your own’. It appears that the EU’s attitude is responsible if it gives advice to the Palestinian Authority, but this is not the case if it tries to advise the Israeli Government. In my humble opinion, it is probably this type of statement that prompted Louis Michel to say that the EU did not have Israel’s interests in mind when it made such a declaration. I am aware of this, but the question remains that there continues to be a situation where there is an occupier and the occupied, and the occupier wants to continue playing the game by its own rules, whilst the second – the occupied – is asking for a straightforward end to the occupation, and, with this, peace. The Council is also aware of this, and it has always hoped to have, like this Parliament, greater influence in the peace process. I think that it also knows that this cannot simply be requested, it has to be worked for and achieved. Finally, I would like to say that I expect – and I am sure of this – that this recent mission led by the High Representative and the possible decisions to be made at Laeken will take us in this direction. –  Mr President, in addition to being an evil perpetrated against the civilian population, the sanctions may, if maintained over a long period, turn into a harmful political tool and rebound upon those who impose them. Now, Colin Powell says that the US administration is considering a system of sanctions which will hit the Iraqi regime rather than the Iraqi people. These last few days have nonetheless served as a reminder that this is precisely what President Bush senior said ten years ago when the theory was floated that, thanks to the sanctions, the tyrant of Baghdad would be overthrown by his own people. With a few exceptions, the Arab states nowadays share the position of those countries that are more concerned about the risk of extending the Israeli-Palestinian conflict than about applying sanctions against Iraq, as well as the position of those other countries which wish to resume relations with Baghdad. And all this exactly coincides with the new Anglo-American bombing. Frankly, I believe that, with the increasing bombing of Iraq, comes the further radicalisation of what is already radicalised public opinion in both the Arab states and Palestine. We should also remember that, at the same time, a favour is being done to Saddam who – at least according to a particular conception of morality and politics – is being morally and politically strengthened both within his own country and in the opinion of the majority of Arabs. This may lead to Arab public opinion’s being characterised by a growing sense that Arabs are enduring a war on two fronts: on the one hand, the United States against Iraq and, on the other hand, Israel against Palestine. I hope that such public opinion does not believe that there is an Anglo-American war against Iraq. In conclusion, I should like to say that it is not only in the Arab countries that the West is considered to be responsible for the prolonged suffering of Iraqi children. Many in the West, including myself, think the same. – Madam President, regardless of their situation, today millions of people have seen in the media the degrading conditions in which the prisoners have been transported and have seen on television the humiliating conditions they have been subjected to inside and outside the sadly famous cages. It is not simply a question of condemning the attitude of the United States authorities, but also of rejecting the shameful comments made in the initial days by the base’s military commanders. Some of them, in very bad taste, showed disdain and racism towards the prisoners. A superpower which is not just a military, but also a civil, power should, in my opinion, set a proper example of respect for human rights, even if two twin towers had been destroyed for each of the 50 states of the Union. Whatever happens, they should always show full respect for human rights. Nevertheless, I hope that 11 September has not numbed American public opinion so much that it has become blinded and cannot react in a decent a dignified fashion within the United States itself. In any event, many Europeans are prepared to remain vigilant, to remember that it is essential to maintain our values and principles in this war which we must wage against terrorism and fanaticism. Or are we going to be prepared to renounce the values we claim to defend at this point in European construction? –  Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to be frank, I believe Mr Sharon only wants military, not political options. He has once again used disproportionate force. It is true that the Palestinian suicide attacks are despicable – we all know that – but what did Mr Sharon do during the periods in which there were no attacks? Let us remember his requirement in June 2001 that seven days should pass without violence before he would make any political concessions. In December 2001, there were three weeks of peace; in 2002, six weeks. Did Mr Sharon make the slightest political gesture? No, but during those six weeks of peace the  killed dozens of Palestinians. I ask the Council, here and now, is this not a bad sign? Mr Sharon carried out military attacks at key moments with the intention of invalidating periods in which there were no suicide attacks. The last time, when all the Palestinian groups, under pressure from Mr Arafat, were considering the possibility of putting an end to suicide attacks against civilians in Israel, Mr Sharon’s political response was to bomb an entire building in the Gaza strip, killing dozens of people, including eleven children. Mr Sharon – let us be clear about this – has never made, nor will he ever make, any political concessions, except those imposed upon him, because he is not interested in peace. Mr Sharon is interested in pacification, humiliation, the capitulation of the Palestinians, but not in a genuine, fair peace. The situation, Mr President, is extremely serious with regard to Mr Arafat’s physical safety, the Palestine identity, which has been crushed by Israel – and more specifically by Mr Sharon – and the area, because Mr Sharon will continue on the warpath until there is an invasion of Iraq, unilaterally decided on by the United States, at which point Mr Sharon will take advantage of the situation to definitively destroy any remaining fragment of the Oslo process, of the 'peace of the brave'. Will the EU continue to limit itself to expressing its deep concern over what is going on? . – Mr President, I would also like to thank Mrs Haug for her excellent work. I fully agree with the comments made by our colleague Joan Colom on the revision of the financial perspective. The amount for the common fisheries policy is scarcely 1% of the Community budget. However, this small quantity, which is essential for maintaining the activity of the sector and the economies of areas that are dependent on fisheries, is a very appetising snack, despite being small, each time we look at where to find money to fund new policies. Commissioner, fish is an essential element for a healthy, balanced diet that is rich in proteins. When European consumers go to the market with concerns about what they can buy, in fish they find a safe, quality product. They will therefore think that this 1% of the European Union budget is being very well used. . Mr President, on 30 November 1999 the Fisheries Agreement between the Community and Morocco expired, bringing the activities of four thousand three hundred fishermen and four hundred vessels to an end. Since then, the aid to the people affected entered into force, in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 2792/1999, payable under the FIFG. This aid was extended to 31 December 2001, but it was then necessary to implement a policy of converting the fleet, which to a large extent could not be relocated to other fishing grounds. We therefore approved, and on the basis of national plans, Regulation (EC) No 2561/2001, for the socio-economic diversification of these areas affected by the cessation of activities. In regions particularly affected, such as el Morrazo, Barbate, Algeciras or Lanzarote, fishing activity was drastically reduced or quite simply disappeared, with repercussions for many other sectors linked to this activity and to local production as a whole. In order to fund these actions the Solidarity Fund was used, as you know, to the tune of EUR 197 million in total. The Regulation also provided for derogating measures and exceptions to the legislation defining the methods and conditions for interventions aimed at structuring within the fisheries sector. Nevertheless, the exceptional nature of the measure led the Council to approve a limited period for it, which has not been sufficient to deal with many of the people affected. The rigidities of the Regulation have also contributed to this and now, by means of this modification promoted by the European Parliament, they are going to be eliminated. That is why I am so pleased that Mr Fischler should say that the Commission will accept these modifications and the amendments I propose in my report, because the two of us – Mr Fischler and we, the European Parliament – want the fishermen affected to receive equal treatment, so that they may receive the aid for their conversion, regardless of the fate of the vessel on which they work, because the linking of the fisherman to the fate of the ship has been one of the great difficulties. In certain cases, the vessels were able to be relocated to other fishing grounds, fishing less than they fished in Moroccan grounds and, therefore, losing income. These vessels had to reduce their crews. Nevertheless, the Regulation did not cover these fishermen because it linked the fate of the vessel to that of the fishermen, preventing them from receiving the global premium for their conversion. Therefore, and so that this Regulation – as both the Commission and the European Parliament want – can in practice deal with the greatest possible number of people affected, we must eliminate the provisions according to which the individual global premiums can only be granted to a vessel or to fishermen who fished in a vessel whose fishing activities have ceased for good. And the modification we are now debating, as the Commissioner has said, also means extending by twelve months the deadline for eligibility of the expenditure, which will now be 31 December 2004, and the last date for submission to the Commission of the request for payment of the balance, which will now be 30 June 2005. This is what the representatives of the people affected by the closure of the fishing ground asked us in the Committee on Fisheries, including the Loitamar Cooperative, on the Morrazo peninsula (Galicia), consisting of almost 60 workers who previously fished in Morocco waters, but who have still not been able to fully implement their business project. Now, with the greater time margin they are being allowed, they will be able to do so, and all the members of this cooperative will be able – as required by the Regulation – to begin to work in order to be able to receive this individual aid. This was also requested of us by the Government of Andalusia, which, together with Galicia, the Canaries and the Algarve, is one of the regions which has suffered most profoundly from this failure to renew the Fisheries Agreement with Morocco. I must say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that this modification, as I propose it, has no financial repercussions, but merely seeks to ensure that the financial resources allocated can be duly disbursed, thereby fulfilling the objective intended by the legislator when the Regulation we are now revising was approved. Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I wish to say to Mrs Langenhagen that we fully support her report and that we congratulate her on her excellent work. We socialists have tabled two amendments, to which I should like to ask the rapporteur to give her express support, on the social aspects of the processing industry, urging the Commission, the Member States and social operators to boost the collective negotiation designed to improve the quality of employment in this industry, especially bearing in mind that the majority of these jobs are performed by women, who have very little social protection and who, furthermore, commonly work on a highly casual basis. It is our view that adopting this approach would bring us closer to the objectives set at the Lisbon Summit to improve the quality of employment. We believe that improving the training of these nearly 100 000 workers in the processing industry and its conditions of employment, together with this sector’s own capacity for innovation and its dynamic, will help to ensure that this industry remains viable and that it has a future. – Mr President, I would like to say that fishing relations between the European Union and Mauritania go back a long way, to 1987, and it is clear that – since the disappearance of the fisheries agreement with Morocco, to whose demise we all contributed – it is now the most important of all the European Union’s agreements in terms of volume of catches and budgetary allocations. As previous speakers have said, it is one of the so-called Southern agreements, an agreement under which shipowners contribute to the economic costs by paying for licences. As you know, in the Northern agreements, the shipowners do not pay. As the rapporteur says in his report, four Southern States (Spain, Italy, Portugal and France) are going to be the beneficiaries of this new five-year protocol, although it is also the case that, if fishing opportunities are not utilised – as the rapporteur says – other European countries can use them, which is also something which happens in Southern agreements, but not in Northern agreements. As always, I would like to stress to the Members of this House – and not only those of the Committee on Fisheries – the importance of fisheries agreements with third countries, the importance of continuing to sign up to them and to sign up to new ones. I stress their importance for those third countries and for European regions which are highly dependent on fishing such as my own, Galicia, and I stress once again that this agreement is mutually beneficial. –  Mr President, on 15 November 2001 I was rapporteur for the report on Regulation (EC) No 2561/2001 on the conversion of boats and fishermen dependent on the fisheries agreement with Morocco. On that occasion, Parliament agreed a series of amendments that seem to be very similar to the proposal before us today. They sought to make the regulation more flexible and to convert this particular Community fleet. As I am sure the Commissioner is aware, the fleet is based in Andalusia, the Canary Islands, Galicia and Portugal, It was left without their traditional fishing-ground. The Council adopted this Regulation accepting, though only to a limited extent, some of Parliament’s amendments. In due course, the weaknesses of the text adopted became clear. As we had anticipated, it proved too rigid. It did not allow a significant part of the sector concerned to access the aid for conversion. The Committee on Fisheries has visited Galicia and Andalusia over the last two years. It noted that the non-renewal of the agreement seriously affected 400 boats, 4 300 fishermen and whole regions of Galicia and Andalusia. A large number of associated industries were brought to a virtual standstill. Last December, EUR 30 million was allocated to those affected by the  disaster. The allocation of this money made it clear that it was not possible to spend it and that this regulation was inadequate. The draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Fisheries rightly calls on the Commission to put forward an amendment to improve this regulation and make it sufficiently flexible. We call on the Commission to present a proposal to amend the present regulation as a matter of urgency. We need this to solve the problems we are currently encountering in applying the regulation to fishermen. Above all, aid should not be linked to shipowners’ decisions. The Commission told us a few weeks ago that it could not propose amendments to the regulation because the Spanish authorities had not submitted the required information to the Commission. When she met with the Committee on Fisheries, the Director-General of Fisheries of the Andalusian Regional Government told us that the Spanish authorities had not submitted the necessary information on the proportion of fishermen from this region who had received benefits during the six months’ ban to the Regional Government. The authorities in Andalusia did not therefore even know exactly how many fishermen were entitled to aid. Consequently, they had to establish six offices in the most affected ports to provide information on this aid. This entailed employing 12 people, an investment of EUR 721 000 from their own funds and the provision of a free telephone service. Commissioner, in Andalusia alone, fishermen have made 800 visits and 1 500 enquires. We are not asking for more money. We are asking for a better regulation so that the money allocated can be used efficiently for the purpose for which it was intended. . – Mr President, this report that I am presenting today to this House on safety in fisheries and the causes of fishing accidents analyses, ladies and gentlemen, the reasons for the high accident rate in this sector, and examines aspects such as the European legislative framework, the problems surrounding the work of fishermen and preventing risks. Although the initiative to deal with this issue in Parliament came from the Group of the Party of the European Socialists, the work that is being presented to you today is the fruit of the work of many, including that of my colleagues, members of the Committee on Fisheries in the European Parliament, who worked very hard with me, and who finally adopted this report unanimously. There was also the hearing with experts in September, the invaluable contributions that I received from officials from the Directorate-General for Employment and Social Affairs and the European Parliament Directorate-General on Research and also the contributions made by the Advisory Committee on Fisheries. Everyone agreed on describing the job of fisherman (270 000 in the European Union) as a very dangerous profession, and also largely on the analysis of the reasons why fisheries has an accident rate that is up to 25 times higher than other economic sectors, and that one fisherman in seven in the European Union is involved in an occupational accident each year. This very high rate is due to a combination of very different causes: bad weather, long, very intense working days, payment systems, such as the so-called ‘catch-share payment’, which are not very comparable, a lack of collective negotiation, difficult working conditions, bad living conditions on board, isolation, separation from families and from the social environment, the remoteness of fishing grounds, the age of the fleet, etc. I reject the sceptical position and fatalistic view of those who think that fishing accidents are inevitable and that the victims of them are a price we have to pay to the sea. I think that we need to look for the causes of these accidents and deal with them. We need to make safety a priority. We have unacceptable accident rates and we need to step up controls, raise awareness among ship owners and fishermen and, if necessary, encourage legislative changes in order to reduce them. We need to consider the social and labour conditions of seafarers and improve their working conditions, as they endure irregular rest times and working patterns based on working days of more than 14 hours. This sector needs to be given a right to constant weekly and daily rest and, if necessary, the public authorities should intervene in order to impose what is the fundamental right of any worker. These hard working conditions mean, for example, that young people do not want to join the industry, which prevents the new generation from taking over. We need to establish social dialogue in the sector, at European level, in order to reach collective agreements incorporating these issues of safety at work, consult more with the sector, provide those working in fisheries with social protection similar to that of other workers and develop a culture of safety among employers and workers. The European Union does not even have statistical data; only five countries provide figures and they are not comparable. This issue should be taken into account when launching the third phase of the ‘European statistics on accidents at work’ project so that the Community can have reliable and complete data, harmonised at European level. My group has always thought that in this House we should talk not only about issues associated with fishing resources, but also about the human problems that affect seafarers. Therefore, my report asks that the conclusions reached should be included in the regulations on the reform of the CFP, so that the triangle made up of legislation, training and social dialogue can be included. I also urge the Member States who have not yet done so to ratify the international conventions and improve the Community directives which at this moment in time do not cover up to 90% of the fleet. I also point out in my report that flags of convenience do not provide work or safety guarantees to their crews, which entails serious risks for fishermen working on board these vessels. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, this is a report about an issue that has not been dealt with so far. It is the first of these reports and will possibly be followed by second and third reports on accidents in fisheries. I hope that, as it is the first one, you will look tolerantly upon its defects and support it. – Madam President, yesterday I wrote to you to report certain facts which I believe deserve consideration in this Parliament. According to information received from the services of the sitting of Tuesday 26 October, an unidentified person approached those services to withdraw a motion for a resolution which had been presented by the PPE, PSE and UEN groups, as well as the motion for a resolution presented by the ELDR group, without the consent nor the agreement of any of the signatories and, what is more serious, these motions for resolutions were replaced with a supposed joint motion for a resolution, without signatures, which contained, in addition to a whole series of names of MEPs which had been added, those of some of the signatories of the first motion for a resolution. Madam President, I had to find out about these facts through a journalist who rang from Spain. Madam President, I am not going to describe the behaviour of these MEPs who can name themselves as co-authors without having added a dot or a comma to the text of the resolution. This is an action which speaks for itself and is an example of active parliamentary manoeuvring, if you will permit the irony. My question, Madam President, has to do with the procedure. Does the procedure followed in this Parliament allow these things to happen? Because personally, I would have loved to have been a co-signatory of the text of the Spanish Constitution and through this procedure, Madam President, I could have been precisely that. – Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Attwooll for the magnificent work she has done on this report which is going to be so useful to us. Adjusting the Community fleet to the resources available is a fundamental objective of the CFP. Furthermore, it is a common sense requirement if we want our fishing to be a viable economic activity and our fishing sector to be a viable economic sector. We therefore welcome the extension of the current MAGP IV until 31 December 2002. As I have said, the Socialist Group supports Mrs Attwooll’s report, which was approved by consensus in the Committee on Fisheries, and we thank her for the compromise achieved in our committee, together with the Members presenting amendments, a compromise which the Council is still far from reaching. Parliament is sending a good signal by anticipating an agreement which the Council can accept. The Commission’s proposal is not restricted to extending the current MAGP by one year, but it also intends to introduce, as has been said, criteria relating to safety, which should be debated in the context of a new MAGP. I regret that the Commission has not made any reference to the question of safety in the White Paper on the reform of the CFP. I would like to point out that, as this House approved (on debating and approving my report on fishing accidents), Council Directive 89/391/EEC of 12 June 1989 on the application of measures to promote the improvement of health and safety of workers in the workplace is also fully applicable to vessels of less than 12 metres. We ask for preventive measures, with a view to preventing accidents, both in relation to the design of vessels and life-saving equipment and to the introduction of rules of management of resources with consequences for human safety, the size and power of vessels. Lastly, I would like to point out to Commissioner Fischler that if there is one thing we were unanimous on during the hearing organised by the European Commission to present the Green Paper, it was precisely the fact that Community aid for the modernisation of the fleet should remain in force. –  Mr President, I think that Mrs Redondo expressed it very well in her speech and that, indeed, in this BSE crisis there are Member States who are advantaged pupils, who prepare for the examinations months in advance, and others, such as ours, the government of my country, who are at the bottom of the class, prepare for the examinations five minutes before and when they fail, blame the teacher. And this teacher is you, Commissioner. The Spanish Government became aware of the first case of BSE in October, although it kept it a secret until December. The lack of transparency and the improvisation with which my country’s government is acting with regard to the crisis are, in my opinion, the reason for the massive drop in consumption in Spain, for which the cattle farming sector is paying. This is especially the case for my region, Galicia, where cows are an element of social cohesion and, more importantly, are – as a well-known and admired writer says – a totem. I therefore ask you: can the Commissioner give assurances to consumers that in Spain the measures adopted by the European Union are now being fully complied with? Are there any future measures for which we should be preparing ourselves? Mr President, the sinking of the oil tanker  off the Galician coast demonstrated, amongst many other shortcomings, the lack of coordination of the Member States in terms of combating pollution. The Commission now proposes a modification of the recently approved Regulation establishing the European Maritime Safety Agency, created following the  accident, not only to provide support in the field of marine pollution, but also in the protection against illegal actions. When it comes to pollution, the proposal seems to me to be rather confused. The Agency must have the resources necessary to intervene when a Member State requests it and under the authority of a State, with specialised ships which will operate under a chartering system and which will be made available, if requested, to that Member State. It is not specified whether they must be acquired, rented or hired on a permanent or occasional basis. I personally would like this issue to be clarified, because in Galicia, at the time of the visit of the Agency’s Director, right in the middle of the  crisis, I read that one of the ships would be permanently based in Finisterre. The rapporteur’s amendments specify that the main responsibility in the field of pollution lies with the coastal States, which must have their own resources – which some of us find logical – and that the actions of the Agency will only come into play following a request from the Member State, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. But this principle is not a justification for the Community to remain passive. On the pretext that it is a competence of the Member States and not of the Union, we witnessed during the  disaster how one of them, a country with a considerable coastline, did not possess, and still does not possess today, the minimum resources needed to deal with an emergency. The Commission cannot continue to ignore the need to establish Community response mechanisms or European coordination of the resources of the different States in order to cover emergency situations and respond to disasters. Amongst the new responsibilities, despite the reservations expressed previously, we believe, like the rapporteur, that the Commission’s proposal must be supported, since it contributes to increasing safety in maritime transport. –  Mr President, in its Resolution of November 2002 and following the sinking of the oil tanker off the Galician coast, Parliament called for the Council and the Member States to speed up the application of the measures adopted within the context of the and packages, such as the introduction of double hull vessels. We therefore welcome the draft Regulation presented to us by the Commissioner, but we still feel that the gradual introduction of double hull vessels by the Union is an insufficient, if necessary, measure. So far nobody has explained to us the percentage reduction in maritime accidents depending on whether the vessel is single or double hulled. Nor has anyone explained what percentage of vessels involved in serious maritime accidents recently had double hulls. We believe this is a good thing and we are prepared to support the Commissioner in her personal crusade, but we do not want to fail to see the wood for the trees and we do not believe that double hulls are the solution. If only they were, Commissioner. Although they are not the solution, we do feel they offer advantages which, in our opinion, have not been emphasised enough. Two such advantages are that double hulls force us to assess the condition of our fleet and also force us to renew it. Increasing maritime safety involves financial costs. That is another matter that we feel is somewhat lacking in the Commission proposal – a little more clarity with regard to funding. We still think, however, that, although age affects the general condition of a vessel, all the experts emphasise that maintenance is a better determining factor than age. Like so many European citizens who have approached us, therefore, we believe that double hulls will only be effective if accompanied by the corresponding investment in improving the current system of inspections and penalties, which obliges vessels’ owners to invest in their maintenance and in improving the social aspect in this sector, as we sometimes have the impression that the Commission would like to tiptoe around this issue. In this regard I would pass on to the Commissioner the question on everyone’s lips: why, in disasters relating to the maritime transport of fuel, are the regions worst struck by this kind of tragedy those that are most closely linked to the sea, relying on commercial, fishing and naval construction ports? In both Brittany and Galicia the shipyards have all but vanished, leading to industrial desertification of entire areas, and yet, the way things are, it does not seem as though these shipyards are going to benefit most from this Regulation. Korean shipyards, which are more competitive and have no problems regarding compatibility and State aid, will benefit most. This means that public opinion has the impression that the Commission is being inconsistent. Yes to double hulls, therefore, but only if the requirements and quality of renovated vessels comply with European construction quality standards, environmental standards, social standards and quality standards. I would also ask whether Korea meets these requirements, which are increasingly compulsory for our European citizens. What is a dirty vessel? Will we find, due to the application of this Regulation, some recently built dirty vessels with double hulls? – Mr President, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Langenhagen, on the quality of her work and on the speed and care with which she has produced her report, thereby responding to the urgency which the Commission and the Council had demanded of us. However, I would like to say that this debate concerns a fishing agreement which is atypical for many reasons. Firstly, because it is the only Community fishing agreement which is not international, since the Community negotiates it and signs it with a Member State, as well as with the local authorities of Greenland. This international agreement is in no way ‘international’ and it is barely a ‘fishing’ agreement, since it does not distinguish – despite the claims of Parliament and the Council – between the specific amount intended for development cooperation and the amount corresponding to fishing possibilities. This is fundamentally a development cooperation agreement dressed up as a fishing agreement. EUR 14 million is intended for development cooperation but it is also the case that the very limited use of the fishing opportunities means that most of the remaining 28 million also goes into the coffers of Greenland’s treasury, with no compensation for the Community’s fishing sector. Another idiosyncrasy of this agreement is that it is the only one in which shipowners do not have to pay a single tariff for carrying out their activities. It is regrettable that there has been hardly any development of the possibility of creating mixed companies and that exploratory campaigns have not been developed at all. Commissioner, the sector affected casts doubt upon the figures supplied the Commission on the true use of fishing possibilities. According to some reports, only 12% of the fishing possibilities were utilised within the last agreement, and the agreement negotiated by the Commission, which it is proposing to this House today, prevents these possibilities, paid for the Community tax-payers, being used by other Community fleets with an interest in fishing in these waters. The whole thing is a wasteful mess. Iberian fleets – Spanish and Portuguese – which before joining the Community fished in these waters, are still being excluded, 15 years later, from the scope of this agreement, owing to an abusive interpretation of the principle of relative stability. Given the high financial figures involved, second only to Mauritania, the Community must make a real assessment and not a fictitious one. Furthermore, Parliament should have been consulted during the negotiation. The Socialist Group will vote in favour of the amendments of the Committee on Fisheries and also the amendment tabled by Mrs Figueiredo. – Mr President, the situation of the stocks of different species and the measures for their recovery is always a very controversial issue. The Socialist Group supports the conclusions of Mr Nicholson, in his report, in relation to the Commission proposal for the recovery of cod stocks in the Irish Sea. We understand very well that the over-fishing of a species for one year is paid for over the following years and that the recovery of stocks is very costly and slow. However, we also understand that the inactivity of a section of a fleet over a long period means the loss of jobs and markets and many difficulties for the future of that fleet. I therefore agree with Mr Nicholson that this is an issue which requires a great deal of balance and consideration. The sector often complains – with good reason – that it is ignored when proposals are adopted by the Commission, since these are almost exclusively based on scientific reports which do not take account of the experience and everyday lives of the fishermen. I would ask the Commission to combine this everyday reality experienced by the fishermen with the work of the scientists and, when formulating proposals, to take greater account of the socio-economic situation of the regions which depend on fishing. All of this should be done with the greatest transparency, clearly explaining to the sector the reasons for which particular measures are adopted. I do not believe that the common fisheries policy is a failure. In this respect I completely disagree with the Member who spoke before me. I believe that, in the same way that the reform of the common agricultural policy is only possible through a redefinition of the rural world, the reform of the CFP also has to be very ambitious and develop in parallel with the reform of the fishing world, of those regions which depend on fishing, which will surely have to face the future by bringing other approaches into play, which are different to those which they have been employing up till now and which depend exclusively on an extractive model. Mr President, the shipwreck of the  off the coast of Brittany on 12 December caused an oil slick whose effects on the environment will be felt for years. In addition to destroying natural resources, this accident has had a serious impact on certain economic sectors, particularly those dependent on fisheries. With 20 000 tonnes of crude oil left in the holds of the sunken vessel, the situation could still deteriorate. The consequences of this accident have been disastrous for the aquaculture and ostreiculture sectors which were defenceless against the pollution that could not be prevented from coming ashore. These consequences not only stem from the pollution which occurred immediately after the accident but also the subsequent loss of market share and the rejection by the consumer of a fully guaranteed product which is now affected by the pollution itself. The regions affected are outlying ones with an unstable economic balance. They have been profoundly affected by this oil slick which, unfortunately, is not an isolated event. The main resources of these and neighbouring regions are those granted by nature, which is nowadays too often being punished by man’s activities. These events could be prevented with more care and control by the public authorities. Prevention is better than cure or so the saying goes. Surely the budget would agree, as prevention is much cheaper than the cost of disasters like these. Mr Fischler says that he always comes to the House when asked. Yet on the issue of the  he has given the impression, perhaps not to us but certainly to the inhabitants of Brittany and the Vendée, that, as the Fisheries Commissioner, he is not always available or, at best, available only on a part-time basis. As this House indicated in its first resolution on 20 January, the needs of the severely affected fisheries, ostreiculture and tourism industries must be taken into account. We therefore now call upon the Commission to urgently adopt measures to help the fisheries sector by means of special funds. Galicia and Brittany now have the common ground of having suffered from oil slicks. We cannot understand how it is that experiences like the  or  have not served to reinforce legislation on maritime transport in terms of both controlling safety in the movement of dangerous goods and flags of convenience. Please let this be the last disaster of its type and let us learn all possible lessons from this. We must urgently amend our legislation and close the loopholes which keep allowing these terrible disasters to happen. The polluter pays principle is both necessary and appropriate. It is time that polluters started to pay because, up to now, it has been those affected and taxpayers who have paid, and they have not just paid but cleaned up the affected areas as well. I am therefore delighted at Mr Fischler’s response, particularly his recognition of the need to apply retroactive measures and to give a rapid response to the applications submitted. On behalf of the PSE Group, I want to send a message of solidarity to those affected, to the fishermen, farmers and businesspeople who enable the products of the sea to be regularly brought to market. My message of solidarity also goes out to the mayors and politicians, to the volunteers who have worked to clean the affected areas and to all those who deserve our full support. –  Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists welcomes the creation of a new regional fisheries organisation to govern the South-East Atlantic, namely the South-East Atlantic Fisheries Organisation (SEAFO), and also the Community participation in this organisation. As stated by Mrs McKenna, who I warmly congratulate on her report, the body will organise and manage an area in which the Community fleet fishes and in which we also have fisheries relations with the coastal countries. As part of SEAFO, the Community will be able to contribute to research and to the adoption of measures to conserve stocks, applying high levels of responsible management to fishing, as laid down in the International Law of the Sea. I would encourage the Commission and the Council to ensure that the Community participates in all the existing regional fisheries organisations and in those to be formed in future, in the interests of the Community fisheries sector, as the European Parliament requested of them in its resolution on the Green Paper. I would like to point to two problems: the first arises from the fact that RFOs do not have a weighted voting system, so the Community is therefore disadvantaged by only having a single vote, like a micro-State that is a contracting party; and the second is the long deadlines for the transposal into Community law of the binding agreements for the Community, adopted within these regional organisations. The administrative procedures need to be improved. I should also like to ask the Commission to thoroughly prepare its position before attending meetings of the SEAFO and the other RFOs, by consulting the sector. This requires good communication and relations between the Commission and the industry. I must not miss this opportunity to express my concern over an idea put forward by the Commission in its proposal for the reform of the common fisheries policy where it indicates, with regard to RFOs, that the Community should only intervene in cases of real interest to the Community fisheries sector. What does the Commission mean by real interest? I think this self-imposed restriction is particularly damaging to the principles of responsible fishing recommended by the Community, which the latter should advocate in all fora, in accordance with Article 174 of the Treaty, which states that the Community policy in this field will contribute to “promoting measures at international level to deal with regional or worldwide environmental problems”. I believe that the Community’s presence and leadership in the RFOs are necessary both in order to safeguard the sustainability of resources in European and non-European waters equally – as stated by the Commission itself – and in order to ensure that due account is taken of the interests of nations that practise distant-water fishing, in the same way that account is taken of the interests of coastal States. The Group of the Party of European Socialists therefore asks the Commission, within the SEAFO and the other RFOs, to coordinate Community policies as a whole, and vice versa, for the Commission also to coordinate all its policies to defend the interests of the Community fleet worldwide, because only in this way will European fishermen be adequately protected. The Commission department dedicated to RFOs must therefore be given sufficient financial and human resources to be able to carry out these duties successfully. in writing. The Autonomous Community of Aragon has a population of around 1 200 000 – 44.8 per square kilometre. However, the province of Teruel, one of its three provinces, only has an average of 9.3 inhabitants per square metre, as it only has 140 000 inhabitants spread over 14 785 square kilometres at more than one thousand metres above sea level. This uneven demographic distribution, which is distorted by the large concentration of the population in the capital, Zaragoza, has led to it being excluded from the Objective 1 regions. The province, which has three power stations in operation, is also undergoing a considerable crisis resulting from its mines being shut down. The regional government considers that including it in the European high-speed train routes and more specifically in the route for the high-speed train from Madrid to Levante, would bring it closer to the axis of the Mediterranean basin, considerably helping its development and its recovery from the shortfall that has accumulated in recent decades in terms of communications. I ask the Council and Parliament to take into account this situation and the damaging effects of geographical isolation and depopulation that are taking place in this province. . – Mr President, the Committee on Fisheries has been calling for the strengthening of the common fisheries policy on an international level as well. We must support our fishing industry and help it to be placed on an equal level with giants such as the United States, Russia or Japan. As draftsperson of the Committee on Fisheries, I would like to express my satisfaction with the Committee on Budgets’ support for our proposals on the international fishing organisations and agreements. Firstly, I will refer to our contribution to the international organisations. In an increasingly globalised world, the Union must increase its presence in these organisations which regulate offshore fishing, for reasons of prestige, good management of resources and, above all, the defence of the interests of our industry and our workers. My second point concerns the international agreements. This six-month period, with the French Presidency of the Council, will be decisive in terms of completing the negotiation of these agreements, including, amongst others, the Fisheries Agreement with Morocco. We are all concerned about the prolonged inactivity – seven months now – of the Community fleet which was fishing in Moroccan waters. This is by far the European Union’s most important agreement in this area and our main priority: five hundred boats, thousands of fishermen out of work and many economically paralysed areas depend on its renewal. I would like to congratulate Mrs Haug on her work, which has not been easy, and I am happy that the amounts envisaged by the Commission for the funding of the agreements to be negotiated in 2000 and 2001, the agreement with Morocco amongst others, have been respected. Meanwhile, Mrs Haug, your report is a clear sign of the European Parliament’s support for the Community’s negotiators and for the thousands of European families who are impatiently waiting for the negotiations to be concluded. – Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists is glad that finally the Commission, in accordance with Parliament’s request, is presenting a specific recovery plan for cod, separate from the recovery plan for hake, since, as we have always maintained, the situations of the respective stocks differ considerably. As the rapporteur, Mrs Stihler, points out, for three years the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea has been saying that the cod populations in the North Sea and off the west of Scotland are in serious danger of total collapse. The Socialist Group calls on the Commission to promote the best possible scientific opinions in order to provide knowledge at all times of the state of each resource in each fishing ground so that, on the basis of these rigorous scientific opinions, we can implement recovery plans, which may or may not involve drastic measures which – we must not forget – always lead to the scrapping of ships, unemployment for fishermen and other workers dependent on the fishing sector, and furthermore represent a serious blow for those European regions most dependent on fishing. We therefore believe that the precautionary approach must be a residual criterion to be taken into account only when reliable and safe scientific opinions are not available, but under no circumstances must it replace these scientific opinions. The fishing communities, as Mr Stevenson said a moment ago, demand a clear position, on the part of both the Commission and Parliament, in favour of prior, safe and well-founded scientific opinions, which take account of the sector’s opinions and which, as well as the state of resources, calculate and evaluate the socio-economic consequences of the conservation measures, and we have been asking the Commission for this for a long time. Over-fishing is a determining factor, but it is not the only cause of the problem of scarcity of resources. Knowing the causes is essential if we want the recovery plans – this plan for cod and other future ones – to achieve their objectives, since if we restrict ourselves to reducing catches without tackling causes other than over-fishing – and I would mention the disruption of the food chain or sea pollution – we will perhaps find that the years will have passed and fish populations will not have increased. We need to ascertain the effects on the cod populations in the Irish Sea and the North Sea of the extraction of more than a million tonnes of fish of species other than cod, but which are, however, a source of food for cod. We also need to know the impact of industrial fishing on other populations of white fish, because that may perhaps provide the key to explaining the decline of cod and hake. We want the Commission to investigate the causes of this collapse of the species. We support the idea of a recovery plan which makes it possible to re-establish the stock and my group therefore supports the idea that the highest annual change, upwards or downwards, in any total allowable catch (TAC), should not exceed 15% after the first year of application of the recovery plan. – Mr President, on the initiative of the Socialist Group and with the support of other groups, the Committee on Fisheries has formulated this oral question to the European Commission and the, once again, absent Council of Ministers, so that European citizens may learn of the current situation with regard to the contacts with the Moroccan authorities, with a view to the negotiation of a future fisheries agreement between the European Union and Morocco. You will be aware, Mr Fischler, that the current agreement will expire on 30 November and that the following day the activities of the Community fleet which is fishing in the waters covered by this agreement will come to a halt. That is to say, Mr Fischler, that on 1 December 7,000 European fishermen will lose their jobs, 477 Community ships will remain moored in our ports, 10,000 jobs in the preserving and processing industries will be under threat, as well as many thousands more, relating to marketing and dockyard activities, will also be at risk. And these are jobs, Commissioner – and I want to warn you of this – in coastal areas which are highly dependent on fishing, Objective 1 regions, where fishing is the principal activity. In Galicia, which is my region, extractive fishing plays a part in 45 of the 56 Galician economic activities. The Community fleet which fishes in this fishing ground, Commissioner, has been decreasing agreement after agreement in terms of the number of ships and fishermen. This does not surprise me, but we cannot imagine that the ships and men who have fished there for decades, and of course long before the Jamaica Convention, will disappear overnight. The aid to shipowners and fishermen which is going to result from the FIFG has already been mentioned. I would like to tell you, Commissioner, that, firstly, neither the fishermen nor the shipowners wish to be subsidised. They are hard-working sea-faring people, who just want to work in the job that they know and for which they take such risks. On the other hand, these subsidies are never going to make it to a certain proportion of the population affected by this stoppage: to Mrs Manuela, who owns a fishmongers, to Mr Antonio, who sells electrical goods, or to the traditional boat-builders who are carrying out their work in the Galician training workshop in Rianxo because there will be no boats to repair. And, furthermore, Commissioner, if these subsidies are paid with FIFG resources, which are scarce and which are aimed at the adaptation and renovation of fleets, there will be fewer resources for the objectives of this fishing fund. Four years ago this Parliament declared itself in favour of creating a line specifically to deal with halts of fleets, unforeseen crises and circumstances such as a delay in the renewal of agreements. After the expiry of the previous agreement, Commissioner, there was a halt which lasted seven months, to which we have to add the natural biological stoppages and other bans which were not so much biological as arbitrary, imposed by the Moroccan Administration on a European Commission which was not able to defend the interests of its people, which was illustrated by the numerous unjustified seizures including some which were outside the Moroccan exclusive economic zone. I would like to ask the Commissioner what he plans to do with regard to preventing the re-occurrence of this situation because, until now, I have no idea what he intends. Neither do I know – since the Commissioner mentions it – what the Commissioner’s position is and how fishing will be defended at the Seattle Summit. I have seen how active you have been in the newspapers, Commissioner, in defence of agriculture, but I have heard nothing about fishing. I believe it would be useful if you were to establish a line of defence for European fishing. But the Council is also doing a dreadful job, especially in view of its incomprehensible inactivity with regard to providing the Commission with a mandate for negotiations with the Moroccan Government. And I believe that the Council’s delay can only be explained by the lack of pressure from the Government of the Member State which should be most interested in this Agreement. And further proof of this disinterest on the part of the Council is its absence today in this debate: disinterest in the fisheries agreement with Morocco and a lack of respect for this Parliament which represents all the citizens of Europe. The European Parliament, which will have to express its opinion on the future agreement by means of the assent procedure, must – I believe – be involved with the other institutions during the negotiations with the Moroccan government. There is no place here for a late and bad consultation, as is normally the case. And I would like to say to you, Commissioner, that I believe that the current agreement already has the characteristics of a second generation agreement and that, therefore, you must not insist on that position, which you have indicated, of saying that the negotiation is going to be very difficult. This agreement is not limited to mere financial compensation. There are already joint Euro-Moroccan enterprises and these will continue to exist, but this cannot be an exclusive model. Because we must not demand that shipowners get rid of their fishermen, with all their , and we Socialists will not allow the continuation of certain companies to take place at the expense of their fishermen. The existing agreement and the one to come are a sign of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation and benefit both parties. Within the future agreement the Community must offer its technical services so that Morocco may also put its fishing fleet in order. Mr Fischler, with regard to fishing, you have not yet begun your work, or at least, you have scarcely started and started badly. You are still an unknown Commissioner, and I say “started badly” because of your unfortunate début of announcing the probable disbanding of the Directorate-General for Fisheries which, as you well know, caused a real storm in the sector. But I would like to tell you, Commissioner, that we are not going to take that into account. You were an acting Commissioner and I would like to borrow the metaphor of Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna and tell you that you have a good bull, a ,to fight; carry out good negotiations, bring them to a satisfactory conclusion, defend the interests of the European fishermen as the Moroccan Government will defend the interests of theirs. .I would like to congratulate Mrs Haug on her excellent work and say that I agree with her when she highlights job creation as a priority for the Union. The Committee on Fisheries does not want more money. We simply wish to be named in the guidelines, because what is not named does not exist, and fishing exists, and is even a common policy. Fishing is crucial to maintaining employment and the economy in the peripheral European regions which depend on it. This industry also generates numerous land-based jobs, in the processing industry and in the dockyards. The cheapest jobs are those which do not have to be created because they have not already disappeared. It is better to support activities that already create employment than to have to invest huge amounts, later on, in the creation of new industries. We in the Committee on Fisheries believe that the international fisheries agreements deserve explicit budgetary support, so that the Community fleet may continue its activities and the economies of the fishing regions do not reach crisis point. In the process of reaching an agreement we will therefore see to it that the Union’s support for fishing is consolidated and increased. During the current budgetary procedure we will also highlight our concern that fishing resources be conserved and working and safety conditions in that industry improved. –  Mr President, we must now rethink the future cohesion policy in view of the challenges arising from enlargement to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. Enlargement will mean a large increase in population and geographical area, but also a dangerous increase in regional disparities. Statistics are misleading, and a region that now has a per capita income of 70% of the Community average will not have improved its situation when after enlargement this percentage rises by 10 or 15 points. Income is one element defining regional development, but it must not be the only one. For the new programming period we must have new indicators that reflect the growing complexity of our societies and our regions’ economies: the unemployment rate, especially one referring to young women and the long-term unemployed; a region’s dependence on sectors in crisis, such as steel-making or fisheries; a low level of worker qualification; a lack of occupational training or education; limited economic diversification; the demographic situation; poor penetration of new technologies; or poor integration of women in society in the least developed regions, which is a reason for their backwardness. Cohesion must not be restricted to the Structural Funds. All Union policies have to respond to this aim, helping improve competitiveness in the most backward regions and helping create more jobs and more skilled ones. The Union will have to act in those areas where a stimulus that does not entail a large outlay is needed. A stimulus that leads to regeneration and an increase in competitiveness and productivity. The Commission should have a greater capacity to intervene and an overall view, and Community initiatives should be better-funded, in my opinion, in the next period. Similarly, again in my own opinion, we should rethink how many of them there should be. –  Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists would like to congratulate Mrs Attwooll and Mr Busk on their very welcome reports, and also welcomes the two communications presented by the Commission, both concerning control. We should also like to express – and I address this to Mr Fischler as well – our satisfaction with the progress that would be made in the area of inspection and control under the proposal for reform of the CFP adopted by the European Commission. In this regard, we fully agree with the Commission’s view that the current measures for control and compliance with standards have been insufficient to guarantee the establishment of equal conditions throughout the Union, meaning that the credibility of the CFP has been affected. We support the proposal to create a common inspection and control structure, as requested by the European Parliament. This will be a great step towards communitising the common fisheries policy, which we would also like to see reflected in other dimensions of this policy. It will also increase cooperation between national authorities, as demanded by the European Parliament, moving towards a common inspection structure at Community level and adopting uniform standards including on the amount of penalties. This will make it possible to attenuate the current deficiency caused by the lack of human and material resources, which are currently limited to the sporadic control of landings. In addition, there are substantial differences between the inspection methods of each Member State and between the penalties they apply, which leads to ineffective control. We therefore asked, in the resolution on the Green Paper, a report for which I was the rapporteur, for a harmonised European inspection and control system applicable to all professionals, without discrimination, with a uniform system of penalty proceedings and provisions with a high level of compliance in each part of the industry. Without this system, all the efforts towards the conservation of stocks and the rational management of fishing-grounds are destined to fail. The control cannot be effective, however, without cooperation between the Commission and the Member States and unless the latter fulfil their obligation, as Mrs Attwooll said, to notify any infringements that take place in this area. I would therefore ask the Commissioner to tell us, if possible, what action the Commission has taken in response to the non-compliances he describes in his communication with regard to Member States that have failed to comply with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 2740/1999. I would also ask the Commissioner to tell us whether he has asked France for an explanation as to why it did not provide any information and what the response was. As indicated by Mrs Attwooll, given these gaps it is impossible to come to a firm conclusion. Lastly, we support the petition by my colleague Mr Busk for the Commission to draw up a catalogue of penalties that could be more effective and dissuasive, based on the experiences of the various Member States, that could serve as a guide for everybody. We are sure that an effective, impartial system of homogenous control at European level will increase the support of fishermen for legislation on fisheries and will also increase their respect for it. Madam President, I regret that the report we are discussing this afternoon, being an own-initiative report, is not subject to the corresponding legislative procedure in the Commission and that the Council of Ministers is not going to give its opinion on it. I believe it is an excellent description of the problems worrying the Community tuna fleet, as well as its processing industry. It is true, as we have acknowledged many times in the Committee on Fisheries, that tuna is the most globalised segment of the fisheries sector, and that the Community market demands more product – both fresh tuna and processed tuna – than its fleet and its canning sector can provide. We therefore believe that Mr Fischler’s commitment to unreservedly defend our tuna sector, our fleet and our canning and processing sector is important, just as the governments of third countries promote actions in favour of their own fisheries sectors. By acting in this way, the Commission will defend the European social model and the economic and social cohesion of regions such as mine which largely depend on this industry. We join with the rapporteur, Mr Varela, in calling on the Commission to draw up a strategy in relation to tuna, the preservation of the most threatened species, such as bluefin tuna, and of the most vulnerable fishing grounds. We want fishing and marketing to respond to sustainable and environmental criteria, as well as food safety principles and that, therefore, control mechanisms be established at borders so that imported products have the same phytosanitary guarantees as those originating from our own fleet and industry. This Community strategy we are asking the Commission for is all the more urgent if we consider the vulnerability of our sector to possible unfair competition and the precariousness of many thousands of jobs in our industry, the majority of them carried out by women. We therefore urge the Commission to continue exerting pressure at international level in order to ensure that the principles of this responsible fishing are respected, and that it continue to promote controls and inspection, but we hope that in relation to tuna what we have seen on other occasions does not happen: that what  weaves by night is unravelled by  by day. We therefore hope that the criteria which Commissioner Fischler has expressed today turn out to be those which win out. Mr President, we are currently dealing with the challenge of adapting cohesion policy and Structural Funds to an enlarged Union of 25 members in 2004 and 27 members by 2007. The Commission’s own assessment of the increased disparities within an enlarged Union suggests these will be twice what they are at present. In mid-July, shortly after the end of our parliamentary year, summaries of research undertaken under the guidance of André Sapir, an academic, appeared in the press. President Prodi circulated the research to the rest of the Commission. In their work, Mr Sapir and a team of experts openly queried the appropriateness of the current Community budget spending structure, notably as regards the CAP and the Structural Funds. Commissioner, I do not wish to cast doubt on the usefulness of research of this nature. I realise it can prove very useful and lead to improvements. I would, however, like to query the method adopted on this occasion. I am particularly unhappy about the timing. This is because of the resulting uncertainty and the fear concerning the future of the cohesion policy and Community support for the most disadvantaged regions. Enlargement is only eight months away. Regions set to exceed the crucial threshold of 75% of Community GDP as a result of the statistical factor need to know what provision the Commission intends to make for them. The aim of full employment and economic growth must apply in particular to the current Objective 1 regions. That is where growth is slowest and unemployment highest, Commissioner. I therefore ask you to confirm in the House that concentration will remain a valid principle in the future. Structural aid would then continue to be channelled mainly to the most disadvantaged regions of Europe. As we understand it, cohesion is first and foremost territorial cohesion. Its purpose is to ensure that the most backward regions can also benefit from the effects of the single market. – Mr President, with regard to the Portuguese Presidency’s ambitious six-month programme, I would like to raise two issues which I regard as fundamental: economic cooperation with the Mediterranean countries and the promotion and sustainability of employment. In November, this Parliament adopted a resolution which defended ever closer cooperative relationships between Morocco and the European Union, within the framework of the Association Agreement. There could be no justification for a reduction in cooperation, in terms of fishing. The fishing sector is a very sensitive sector. The  disaster has just demonstrated this. Portugal’s maritime tradition and her excellent relations with Morocco should be used during this six-month period to promote the negotiations on the new fisheries agreement, which are currently at a standstill. The fishing industry is concentrated in the most under-privileged regions of Europe and it needs this agreement urgently. We need a progressive economic, social and territorial policy so that the benefits derived from the current economic boom are not directed to the most buoyant industrial sectors. The Portuguese Presidency needs to be decisive and courageous in confronting this challenge. .  MAGPs are essential to achieving the level of resources needed to ensure that fishing can be a sustainable activity with a future within the European Union and any infringement of their provisions must be punished. We call on the Commission to demand full compliance with MAGPs by all Member States. Condoning anything less would amount to rewarding those who infringe Community legislation. We fail to understand how the behaviour of certain Fisheries Ministers continues to be tolerated. I refer to those Fisheries Ministers who agree to provisions in Council but then fail to comply with them or refuse to make data on compliance available. Fisheries resources, the Community’s fisheries sector and the regions that depend on fishing would all be better off if the CFP pursued a long-term socio-economic approach that was not full of contradictions. There is no point in awarding subsidies for ships to be built only then to pay to have them scrapped. It would make more sense to allow them to be exported to third countries, in the context of cooperation between the Community fisheries sector and those of developing countries. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is committed to a long-term policy that combines adapting the fleet to resources with maintaining a sustainable level of fishing. We want a future both for fish and for fishermen. – Mr President, the European fisheries sector is, ladies and gentlemen, going through an upheaval. These are difficult times for fisheries and here today, as proof of this, we are debating the extension of FIFG aid for the fleet that was fishing on the Canaries and Saharan Bank until a conversion plan is implemented, as the rapporteur of this report, Mrs Fraga Estévez, has explained to us. The European media are already saying that the Commission plans to allocate EUR 142 million, charged to the flexibility instrument, to this plan, but I, like the sector itself, have too many doubts about this, which I would like Mr Fischler to clear up for me. Does using the flexibility instrument not limit aid to just one budgetary year, while the proposal from the Spanish government, which was for multi-annual assistance, would be much more appropriate for dealing with these people who have been removed from the fishing ground where they habitually fished? The Spanish government justified its plan and quantified it at EUR 540 million, 240 from the FIFG and 300 of additional funding. Can the Commissioner explain to me why this is not being done? Commissioner, as you were at the Council meeting in Nice, could you explain to me whether what was agreed there on the conversion plan for this fleet included aid for the economic regeneration of the areas affected or whether it was purely limited to aid for scrapping, aid for shipowners and fishermen? The sector affected, which is a large sector, has more questions than answers about its future. What is going to happen, for example, with the FIFG Regulation, which establishes that the aid that shipowners receive for temporary inactivity cannot be combined with subsidies for scrapping and that therefore, if they want subsidies for scrapping, they are going to have to return the aid for inactivity that they have already received? The sector wants to know whether this conversion plan for the fleet is going to be debated at the Council of Ministers on 18 June, whether the aid is going to be extended equally, as this report proposes, to shipowners and workers, or if it is only going to be for the latter, whether you have received the conversion plans from the governments concerned, the Spanish and Portuguese governments, and when are you, Commissioner, going to present your proposal to the European Parliament and the Council? Finally, in the Commission plan, whether funds are going to be included for the economic diversification of the areas, because in my opinion, simply redistributing and redirecting FIFG funds already allocated to the Member States, Commissioner, is taking from one mouth to feed another. – Mr President, enlargement is essential for the construction of a strong and united European continent. The economic and social cohesion laid down in the Treaty, the basis of the policy of European solidarity, must be one of the basic elements of that construction. However, we must not forget that, after enlargement and as a result of the low standard of living in the candidate countries, the average Community GDP is going to be reduced by at least 18%. The immediate consequence will be that more than 20 of the current Objective 1 regions will exceed the ceiling for receiving aid – 75% of the Community average – without having increased their income in real terms. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not always able to clearly explain these pitfalls to our citizens nor propose clear and acceptable solutions. Somebody said here today that enlargement is not a priority for 60% of the people consulted by the latest . The report on the opinion of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism – of which I am rapporteur – has therefore had to play a dual role. Regional policy, the policy of European solidarity, is, of the common policies, the one which is most familiar to the citizens and one of the most valued. My report on the committee’s opinion therefore talks not only of what the candidate countries have to do but also of what the European Union has to do. The candidate countries must now embark on their own regional policy, develop the appropriate administrative structures, move ahead with the process of decentralisation and regionalisation, open up channels for participation to local and regional authorities and to social agents and create effective programmes of transnational and cross-border cooperation amongst themselves and with the Member States. They must do all of this because, after enlargement, we will not only have to combat the inequalities which those countries have inherited from the past, but also those which are being created at this very moment. This is not only a result of their internal policies, but above all because of our investments, European investments, or, if you prefer, Member States’ investments, which are accentuating the internal differences between the regions of those countries to the highest possible degree. That is why my report encourages them to create their own regional policy and move forward in this process. My report is also bound to discuss the European Union and has to demonstrate that the European funds for regional development cannot continue to be granted on the basis of a simple distribution of money between regions or districts. If we do not establish priorities from a continent-wide perspective and straightaway, we will waste precious time, a few very important years in the task of constructing a strong and united continent. It is essential, ladies and gentlemen, to create a genuine European regional planning policy, of which the Structural Funds are a component, an element, but which gives rise to ambitious actions in favour of balanced and integrated development of the European area in its different dimensions. It is necessary to develop this European plan, link it clearly to regional policy and to the reform which is going to be implemented in 2006. We must begin to discuss this integrated and polycentric European development. The moment to move forward will perhaps arrive after the next Intergovernmental Conference. The European Parliament and its Committee on Regional Policy, which also has competence in the field of transport and the Trans-European Networks, is aware that it is necessary to coordinate the different Community sectoral policies in favour of a global policy of regional planning. The European Commission works on the basis of this same hypothesis and will put forward some of its proposals in the second triennial report on cohesion which it will present to Parliament in December. We know that this is perhaps not the ideal moment politically, but there is also a need to discuss the current financial perspectives negotiated at the Berlin European Council, which do not seem to us to be sufficient to confront the challenges of the regional policy and the economic and social cohesion of an enlarged European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, cohesion and European citizenship are one and the same thing. Helmut Schmidt and Valéry Giscard d'Estaing put it another way: the only way we can create realistic and viable integration is through political will and socio-economic conditions which are almost identical. –  Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we all agree that the element of control is essential to guaranteeing a sustainable level of fishing. To this end, the Council, and the Commission, Mr President, adopted in 1998, with this aim of conserving our resources, a decision on the progressive disappearance of drift-nets also known as . I would like to ask the Council, and the Commission, how it feels, in general terms, that this campaign is developing; if it is true that this has been a good year for tuna and that this is why disputes between the different fleets that work the Bay of Biscay have been avoided. I would like to know by how many boats each country has reduced its fleets as a result of the moratorium and if this method is proving useful in reducing the pressure on tuna populations.  Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask you if the fact that several European boats – and I hope you will tell me just how many – have replaced their drift-nets with other high yield methods has brought about greater protection for tuna fisheries or if, quite the opposite, we are now seeing increased pressure on tuna populations, which is the opposite effect to the one we wanted. – I simply wished to thank the Commissioner for his answers, for his words, and to say that I did not for a moment think that Mr Schmidt’s dismissal had anything to do with the delay in the proposals for reform. In all innocence, I thought that the delay would improve the proposal and that is why I was even pleased that the delay occurred. Nevertheless, it seems to be clear from your words, and especially from your statements to the press in recent days, that you have no intention of changing a single letter of the proposal. I still believe that the reform of a policy as fundamental as fisheries requires at least three essential factors: it must be gradual, it must have sufficient funding and must have the broadest possible consensus. I ask you then: do you think that the proposal you will be submitting to us next week or soon thereafter is going to meet the three criteria that I have just raised? –  I would like to ask the Commissioner something very simple, which might have more to do with the questions asked earlier. I am rather late in asking my supplementary question. Commissioner, do you consider to be fair the situation that you and other Members have just described – in which huge ships from the Member States are fishing in the very fishing-grounds in which the Community fleet is trying to conserve stocks – or do you believe that this is a situation we should be able to avoid, for example through a series of measures that we are now going to implement over the remaining months of debates to reform the common fisheries policy? Do you consider it acceptable that, in the fishing-grounds abandoned by the Community fleet, or in those with very high Community requirements to conserve stocks, large ships should be putting such great pressure on stocks even if they are not receiving any Community funds? That is my question. Mr President, Mrs Langenhagen, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Fisheries, has clearly communicated the concerns of this committee with regard to the draft Budget for 2004. In the view of the Socialists, and in my view as their spokesman, three of the issues of the many which the rapporteur indicates in her report are the most prominent and my group fully agrees with them. The first relates to the socio-economic crisis in the white fish sector, which results from the recovery plans for a series of species including hake and cod and to which we must now also add halibut in the fishing grounds of the NAFO. We agree with the sum of EUR 150 million proposed by the rapporteur. The second, ladies and gentlemen, relates to the scrapping fund, for which the Committee on Fisheries proposes a sum of EUR 32 million. I would like to say to the Commissioner that he, as Commissioner, and the Commission itself, has promoted a reform of the CFP of a highly destructive nature, scrapping fleets, and that the Commissioner for budgets should perhaps tell us now how much additional funding is going to be allocated by the Commission to pay for this policy of scrapping. The third issue I would like to focus on is the fisheries agreements. The new ones: Tanzania, Kenya, Libya, etc. for which additional funds will be needed, and the old ones, for which the Committee on Fisheries maintains its former demand that the part corresponding to compensation for fishing opportunities be separated in this budget line from the part corresponding to development cooperation with third countries. – Mr President, I respected your authority at all times, since I did not know whether or not I could ask a supplementary question. I wish the President-in-Office of the Council luck and success during this six-month Presidency, and I would like to raise the issue of the  from a European point of view. Do you believe that a disaster of this nature, which now affects more than one Member State, whose outcome nobody knows, since we still have a sunken wreck containing 55 000 tonnes of oil, with consequences which are truly tragic for areas of very great ecological value for the whole of the EU, for the heritage of the whole of Europe, and with repercussions for all aspects of maritime law etc., should be dealt with from a European point of view, through the creation of a temporary committee or a committee of inquiry in this Parliament to examine all points of view and to coordinate all types of effort, so that events of this type can never happen again? . – Mr President, the European Parliament is offering the Commission the opportunity to correct the proposed regulation it delivered to Parliament and the Council. The intention of the report, approved by the Committee on Fisheries that we are discussing at the moment, is to correct the rigidity of this proposal, which is currently preventing progress being made in finding solutions to problems for the people affected by the non-renewal of the EC-Morocco fisheries agreement. From the time the agreement expired, on 30 November 1999, until the time it became clear that a new agreement would not be reached, owners of more than 400 vessels and some 4 300 fishermen were both hopeful and fearful at the time when negotiations between the Community and Morocco were being prolonged. It was not until 26 March 2001 that Commissioner Fischler announced that it had been impossible to reach a mutually beneficial agreement. From that moment, the Community set itself the objective of converting the affected fishing fleet. By presenting this proposed regulation, the Commission is conforming to the guidelines set by the Nice European Council of 7 December 2000. At that Summit, the European Council ordered the Commission to propose a specific action plan for the restructuring of this Community fleet. I must state clearly that this proposed regulation does not conform to the needs of the sector in question. Once again the Commission seems to be presenting proposals, the objective of which we do not understand, that do not amount to decisive action in support of a fleet and certain regions which are suffering a serious crisis. In fact, rather than helping to preserve most of the fleet and its economic activity, the Commission is presenting a rigid proposal which, if the Council approves it without the substantial amendments approved by the Committee on Fisheries, will have the effect of breaking up a fleet for which the ship owners and local authorities of those regions feel capable of finding alternatives. This proposal must therefore be amended in the way approved by the Committee on Fisheries, so that the actions proposed may have a beneficial effect on the sector in question. The Committee on Fisheries does not share the Commission’s breaking-up approach. The Commission could have focussed on the existing opportunities in alternative sectors, such as the processing industry, aquiculture and especially the promotion of fisheries products. In the same way, the proposal excludes sectors directly affected by the non-renewal of the agreement, such as the non-extractive fisheries industries. The land-based companies, during the long negotiation process, have suffered a series of economic setbacks that have led to employment rationalisations and redundancies, leading to considerable losses. Today they are faced with a future just as uncertain as that of the fleet they depend on. Faced with this breaking-up approach, the sector affected and the regional authorities have reached verbal agreements with companies and ship owners from various Maghreb countries to create mixed companies, and in this way, according to the estimates of the sector, in the small-scale sector, around a hundred vessels could be relocated with the help of this specific measure, if it were more flexible, thereby reducing to 26 those vessels destined for scrapping. This would maintain an economic activity which is vital to certain regions and ensure that those who want to continue being ship owners and fishermen are able to do so. The amendments contained in the Committee on Fisheries’ report, in summary, modify the proposed regulation in the following fashion: In addition to ship owners and fishermen, the land-based fisheries industry which was directly linked to the existence of this agreement are included, provided that their losses exceed 70%. The requirement that the people affected must have been subsidised for a period of at least nine consecutive months as a result of inactivity in order to benefit now from this specific measure is removed. This requirement leads to the exclusion of those people who, sometimes temporarily, found alternative work while waiting for a new fisheries agreement with Morocco to be reached. This is all the more serious if we bear in mind that these ship owners and fishermen had not been warned that, if they found an activity, they would be penalised when it came to conversion. The Committee on Fisheries has also rejected the requirement to return aid granted for modernisation. It is not right to apply penalties of a backdated nature in the case of aid which was not subject to these conditions at the time of being granted. The Commission’s proposal intends to increase public aid per ship owner by 20% in the case of scrapping or transfer to a third country. The Committee on Fisheries believes that fishermen must also benefit from this increase of 20%. We have also redistributed the sum allocated to this specific measure in such a way that the amount intended for scrapping is 30%, for the creation of mixed companies, 35%, and for socio-economic measures, also 35%. This would lead to better implementation of the specific measure. Lastly, I will mention the budgetary aspect. In accordance with the conclusions of the Nice European Council, the Commission proposes granting up to EUR 197 million for this specific measure. It proposes implementing the flexibility instrument in 2002 and allocating the appropriations corresponding to heading 2 of the financial perspectives. The saving resulting from the non-renewal of the agreement has been EUR 500 million. It is natural that the Community should also contribute to the cost of converting this fleet. –  Mr President, the absence of Mr Fischler from this debate is significant, but I consider the absence of Mr Smidt, the Director-General, to be even more so. I can understand the Commissioner’s reasons, but not those of the Director-General. Mr Busquin, it is said that the Commission is a collegiate body. I, however, believe that if this really were the case, this difficult matter of the Fisheries Agreement with Morocco would have been addressed from the start with a global approach, involving all the Commissioners. I doubt that until now you will have heard of this problem, which is to be presented in this debate in all its harshness. You will leave here today wiser and the only thing we would like is to leave more informed. It is cold comfort that the European Union is financing compensation for fishermen and shipowners. From day one, what they have told us is that they wanted to fish. In any case, the aid will end on 31 December, the date planned for the conversion of the fleet. What a beginning to the third millennium for the European Union: we are converting the fleet because we have been incapable of negotiating a new Fisheries Agreement with Morocco. Eleven months after the expiry of the previous agreement, nobody is assuring us that we will reach an agreement before 31 December. What has not been achieved in eleven months will be difficult to achieve in a few days. Mr Busquin, I have sometimes, as a member of this Parliament, had the feeling that the European Commission, the Commissioner, and in particular the Director-General for Fisheries were acting as if they were ashamed of the sector and even of those Member States that they were called upon to represent in this negotiation. We all knew from the start that it was a difficult negotiation. Time has taught us that this could turn from being difficult to being impossible. Because contact cannot begin by turning our back on the demands of the sector and agreeing to Moroccan demands without any discussions. The Commission sent signals, not to the negotiators of the neighbouring country, but to European fishermen: too many cephalopod trawlers, a fleet with excess capacity, mixed enterprises, the need to negotiate by segments of the fleet, a ban on mentioning other types of trade and, of course, silence. Who does this silence benefit? Does it benefit Parliament, which is accountable to the citizens of the European Union? Does it benefit a sector which, more enterprising than the negotiators themselves, is going to Morocco and seeing that what is impossible for Brussels is possible for them: speaking directly to the Moroccans, establishing close contacts, principles of trade, industrial and fisheries agreements? Does it benefit the Directorate General of Fisheries which, with all the Community apparatus at its feet, still thinks that our fishermen are the bad guys and wonders why they do not do something else? We are left, Commissioner, not with the sentiment, but with the certainty that the sector would by itself have been capable of reaching an agreement which the Commission has still not reached today. This sentiment does not sit square with negotiations with a country that has an association agreement with the European Union and in whose development we are involved. And it fits in even less with a European Union that feels able to negotiate the accession of 13 new Member States. The Moroccan Government is requesting privileged relations with the European Union. It is right to do so and we should feel proud of this. We are the main importers of Moroccan fisheries, agricultural and industrial products. Moroccan agriculture enjoys special treatment when exporting to Europe. At each negotiation of fisheries agreements, when these were seasonal, Morocco systematically obtained permanent agricultural concessions. We could say that, eleven months after the docking, we are still paying for the previous agreement and the one before that. The European Union wants to continue its association with Morocco in the field of fisheries because we are convinced that a cooperation to the advantage of both parties is possible, for the same reasons that make the European Union the largest investor in Morocco. The first, the second and the third. Or that thousands of young Moroccans study at Spanish or French universities. Or that Morocco benefits from substantial European aid. Or that we share our Mediterranean policy with Morocco. If employment is truly one of the European Union’s priorities for action, an economic sector such as fisheries cannot continue to be sidelined. At least 40 000 direct or indirect jobs in the European Union depend on this agreement, in areas with no possibility of conversion. We are not dealing in intangibles . The Commission is well aware of the importance of fisheries agreements for certain regions that are highly dependent on this activity: European regions of Denmark, Ireland, Scotland, Andalusia, Portugal and, Galicia, with extremely high unemployment rates and no industrial activity, that have exchanged their potential competitiveness for a marginal activity that the Commission seems to want to marginalise still further – and I am sorry to be so harsh. For these regions, the last return of the fleet will, in the absence of any other alternative, constitute a fatal blow from which they will find it difficult to recover. The European institutions must ensure that citizens and fishermen do not see Europe as a panacea, but as a suitable framework for the defence of their interests. Mr President, before I begin I would like to say that I am surprised at this last intervention, because Mr Sterckx is not the only one tabling an amendment. The Socialist Group is also tabling an amendment and, of course, what we want is to create a temporary committee, and I do not think that this is the time or the place to call into question the admissibility of this amendment, as tabled, and this refers to both our own amendment and that of the rapporteur.  was the cry we heard from November onwards in my region, Galicia – in other regions they were listening much further away – but also in other European regions that were affected by the  disaster, not the  disaster, the  disaster. Unfortunately, it is not a new cry. As someone pointed out, it was a cry that was heard after the ,  and  disasters. The world moves quickly, consumer information, a product of our society, requires, like Saturn, new children to devour and new tragedies to hold the attention of the people. Clearly, after each tragedy the same thing has happened: some months after, the public’s attention moves on to other issues and the promised changes remain just that, mere promises. So we are here now in this Parliament with the opportunity to ensure for once that that does not happen. We are here to ensure that for the first time a temporary committee is established – which my group has been calling for since the beginning of the tragedy – to analyse the causes and effects of the  disaster, to examine the Community and international regulations concerning maritime safety and to ensure the application of the petitions this Parliament will make tomorrow when approving the report we are debating today. I would like to thank Mr Sterckx and congratulate him on his report on my own behalf, on behalf of my group and on behalf of many Galicians who have a great deal of respect for your work, Mr Sterckx, thanks to your dedication, your political sensitivity and, above all, your impartiality. The Socialist Group has made very clear its reasons for wanting the temporary committee. It has a vision of Europe that goes far beyond the sum of the 15 national realities. We believe that it is up to the institutions to promote certain policies, including maritime safety, and it is up to this House to ensure political control, which up to today – and even today – some people have tried to deny it. I am pleased that the rapporteur and the Liberal Group share this view and I call on the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in this House to unite with us rather than remaining alone on the sideline. Indeed, what was the problem in this tragedy? Was it the lack of places of refuge? No, of course not. The person or persons who decided to move the vessel further out to sea have never said that they moved the vessel because there was no place of refuge. On the contrary, what they say is that if the same thing happened again today, they would move it out to sea in the same way. What was the problem with this tragedy? Well, I believe it was the fact that it was played down. It has been said today that a temporary committee for the would be accepted but not a temporary committee for the . Mr Hatzidakis has said things that were much worse, for example that this was a Spanish problem. We will talk about that later. Thus, two Erika packages were drawn up and yet you do not want to admit that a Prestige package is required. The tourism minister in my region, Galicia, says that this is more of a media disaster than an ecological disaster, and he says this with 51 000 tonnes of waste collected from the sea, 79 000 tonnes of waste collected from the land and in France 31 000 tonnes collected from the land and 1 500 tonnes from the sea, solely along the French Atlantic coastline, and he said this 10 days ago, on the same day that the oil reached the Belgian coast. That is what the minister says. We want a Prestige committee, we want a Prestige package and we want us to go on talking about the  for one simple reason: because the people who are unaware of its history, ladies and gentlemen, are destined to repeat it, and we do not want this tragedy ever to be repeated again, either in Galicia, in Greece, or anywhere else. () – Mr President, Commissioner, I think that the time bomb is the one that we have here, now, as we are talking about an unprecedented failure of negotiations, which is not your failure, Mr Fischler, but that of many people, which leaves 4 400 Community fishermen and 415 vessels unemployed. Those affected in my country feel that they have been deceived by their political leaders, who have always denied the problems in the negotiations, and the fact that there were deadlines for concluding them. This is not the case for you, Mr Fischler. How are they are going to believe in relocation to other fishing grounds if we all know that increasing the fishing effort would put resources at risk or would make the activity unprofitable? Why did the negotiations fail? Despite your efforts as Commissioner, which I recognise, a common strategy was lacking, not on your part, but on the part of the Commission, and above all, the Council. You reminded me of the responsibility of ministers, whom you said were informed at all times and had taken part in the most recent rounds of negotiations. Although the formal responsibility for negotiating lies with the Commission, the governments can and should prepare the way for agreement. You said that what the European Union was offering was not bad; the attitude of the Moroccan Government was not that of a loyal partner. We think, however, that the framework for negotiation was the association agreement with Morocco. Maybe eleven months ago it was not right to mix fisheries and agriculture, but we have to remember that Morocco is still benefiting from agricultural concessions obtained in parallel with the fishery negotiations in 1992 and 1995, and that the European Union is the main importer of Moroccan fisheries, agricultural and industrial products. You said to me at the time that no good would come of such a mix and that it was better to trust our partners. We have trusted them and we have seen that on the same day that the negotiations broke down, Morocco was signing a fishing co-operation agreement with Japan, and while it was giving us the reasons of preserving resources, it was granting licences to Community and other vessels and fleets. The sector and the public want to know what measures the Commission is going to take following the collapse of these negotiations. In your speech you talked again about another mandate. Is another mandate possible? Do you think that we would change anything with another mandate? Do you think that the negotiations have finished for good, or is it possible to restart them with a new mandate? –  Madam President, it is not my task to make a political evaluation of the new Commission. However I would like to say a few words about fishing. The reform of the common fisheries policy, envisaged for 2002, will be a great challenge and a great test which this new Commission will have to face since the fishing industry expects this reform to turn the fishing policy into a genuine common European policy and the Commission to endow it with the necessary additional Community status. In the fishing industry, employment should also be our political priority, Mr Prodi. The Commission which you preside over must commit itself to maintaining employment in the fishing industry, both in the Community fleet and in the processing industry. The fishing policy, Mr Prodi, is also an effective tool with regard to the organisation of European territory and the correction of the disparities which still exist in Europe today. It is the peripheral regions with a degree of development which is lower, much lower, than the Community average which suffer most from unemployment and which have the least effective infrastructures. These are the regions, Mr Prodi, which depend most on the fishing industry. Please make great efforts, Mr President, Commissioners, Mr Fischler, with regard to the common fisheries policy, since the whole of Europe, including inland Europe, will be grateful for them. –  Mr President, on many occasions I, like many other of my fellow members, have lamented the lack of coordination between different Community policies and between the various Directorates-General of the Commission. I could even say the same for the Parliamentary Committees in this House. There would be no contradictions between the common fisheries policy (CFP) and the development cooperation policy if Community instruments – the budget, to be precise – were more transparent. The European Union funds cooperation in fisheries with these countries in two different ways: international fisheries agreements and projects funded by the European Development Fund. An increasingly large proportion of financial compensation from the agreements is for this purpose – with regard to Madagascar, for example, it is 62% – which is not, of course, the ideal situation, given that the CFP is being asked to fund actions or compensations that have nothing to do with its real objectives. Those who say that the Community does not help the fisheries sector of developing countries are wrong. In response to a question I asked recently, Commissioner Nielson informed me that the Community had undertaken, with funding of EUR 421 million from the European Development Fund, 334 programmes, projects or actions to support the fisheries sector in these countries. I would remind you that the largest current fisheries agreement, the agreement with Mauritania, involves around EUR 80 million per year. I think that nothing could be of more use to the progress of developing countries than mutual trade with the European Union. Fisheries agreements allow them to obtain financial resources in return for giving the Community fleet fishing rights on various perishable resources whose capture, processing and marketing, require specialist companies and methods that these countries do not have themselves. In the same way that it would be absurd for us to oppose these countries’ exporting their agricultural products to Europe, it would be appalling if we were to deny them the opportunity of selling their surplus fish supplies at international prices. This ill-informed approach to development cooperation would lead us to prevent developing countries from exporting their mining products to us, or to ask European energy companies to abandon these countries so that local companies can carry out operations, or to not pay Gabon or Nigeria the international price for a barrel of oil. Lastly, it is worth pointing out that the fishing grounds where the Community fleet operate are in international waters that do not belong to any one country, but are in Exclusive Economic Zones, according to the International Law of the Sea Treaty, that obliges all countries to leave the surplus resources from these zones that they cannot exploit themselves for other countries to use. This should take place within the framework of the sustainable management of resources, which is what the CFP is designed to achieve. The fishing carried out by the Community fleet that operates in these waters is compatible with the local small-scale fleet, which maintains the monopoly within a 12-mile zone. An interesting project for all those involved would be to help those countries to better manage this zone where spawning takes place and where the highest concentration of young fish is to be found. I congratulate Mr Lannoye on his excellent report and I ask everyone here to continue working on this cooperative approach. Mr President, the European Parliament proved its worth by establishing a temporary committee to assess the causes and consequences of the oil tanker disaster and to make proposals to increase safety at sea. The institution thus carried out its responsibility for political monitoring of what was and continues to be a European disaster that goes beyond the limits of a single Member State and took on board the consequences by promoting the sea traffic policy, which is the responsibility of Community and international bodies, although the decisions to implement it are left in the hands of the leaders of the Member States. Talking of the Member States, Parliament has had to put up with hijacking manoeuvres and a lack of cooperation on the part of those who were then in charge of the Spanish Government. It is usual practice in Parliament’s temporary committees for ministers to give their points of view. This was not the case and the majority of the groups feel that between 13 and 19 November 2001 hasty and badly thought out decisions were taken which resulted in an accident turning into the greatest environmental disaster in Europe of the last few decades. After five months of hearings we are still wondering what made the Spanish authorities in charge order that the vessel be removed to the high seas. As the European Parliament stated in its resolution last year, this decision considerably increased the proportions of the disaster. My group is tabling several amendments, but following on from Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna’s speech, I would like to say that, while we think that Amendment No 2 from the PPE-DE Group is entirely superfluous and we are neither in favour or against it, we, and myself in particular, as a Galician and vice-chair of the Committee on Fisheries, think that Amendment No 1 is irrelevant and, what is more, dangerous, because no one has questioned the rigour of the scientific testing or the healthiness of the food chain. We would not have opposed an amendment to remove the word overfishing – if the honourable Member thinks it is so serious – although we still believe that the original wording of paragraph 50 is entirely inoffensive, as it only mentions the risk and the possibility of overfishing and in no way claims that it is already the case. I will say once again, however, that we are not entirely in favour, and we will therefore vote against, because we think it is quite dangerous to bring back the ghost now and question the rigour of the scientific tests and the healthiness of the food chain. –  Mr President, in his speech, Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna has already mentioned the forceful response from the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Kinnock, to my question on the boarding by Canadian inspectors of a Portuguese fishing vessel in NAFO waters. If we are to maintain the balance in this important organisation – and in what is an extremely important fishing ground for the Community fleet – then the only way to do so is for everyone to behave responsibly. The proposal for a regulation under discussion today, on control measures for vessels from countries which are non- Contracting Parties to NAFO, is very much linked to this sense of responsibility that is so necessary in the fisheries sector. I am referring to the responsibility we all share for managing marine resources, in accordance with rules accepted by all parties to guarantee that such resources are preserved and that ours will not be the last generation to see cod, redfish or American plaice. Regional fishing organisations have played an increasingly important role over recent years in the management of resources. In this respect, we, the Socialists, would like to continue developing the idea that encourages this sense of responsibility. Legal philosophies dating from times gone by have been left behind, times when man felt how small he was in relation to the immensity of the Earth, which appeared to be a planet with infinite resources. The lack of ownership of the seas and the principle that the sea belongs to no one sprang from such ideas. However, nowadays, in a world that is becoming ever smaller, a world dominated by new technologies that make the world even smaller and with resources we know are becoming more and more scarce, we, the Socialists would like to move forward on the principle that the sea belongs to everyone. For this reason, we would like NAFO to be – and indeed it is – an organisation open to countries that have vessels operating in this area. In this way, such countries would play a part in creating regulatory measures and would share responsibility for managing resources. If this does not happen, flags of convenience, euphemistically known as ‘non-Contracting Parties’, will benefit, not to mention the piracy which lies behind the euphemism, ‘stateless vessels’. Such vessels – which we are often keen to believe have nothing to do with us – do not come from remote southern seas, but rather almost always originate from European ports, from Community ports. They fly strange flags and their aim is to practise social dumping. In so doing, they avoid regulations on the rational management of resources and pay no attention to workers’ social rights. People who idolise the market should note from this that neither fish nor people gain anything from their hypotheses. Lastly, it is extremely important that countries with vessels operating in NAFO waters are Contracting Parties, just as it is important that the European Community is also a Contracting Party to regional organisations being set up in the South Atlantic and beyond the area the Community fleet currently operates in. Our fleet, the Community fleet, does not wish to be seen as a pirate fleet, as a fleet without nationality, nor as an intruding fleet. To conclude, the Group of the Party of European Socialists would like to state that it wholeheartedly agrees with the content of this report although it regrets, as does the rapporteur himself, Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, that there is a lack of proposed measures from the Commission on combating the main enemy of our fleet and of the conservation of fishery resources today. This enemy is none other than those vessels flying flags of convenience. – Mr President, the Socialist Group can only support the proposal to extend the fishing agreement between the Community and Equatorial Guinea by one year. We are also pleased that, according to news reports from two weeks ago, an agreement has been reached to renew the aforementioned agreement between the Community and Equatorial Guinea for three years. This is a modest agreement, both in terms of fishing opportunities and in terms of financial compensation – since 1994 it has been restricted to tuna-fishing ships – but it is no less important for that. The previous protocol contained a financial contribution for grants and aid for units for monitoring fishing grounds and for non-industrial fishing. However, we agree with Mr Gallagher and we share his concern that little or nothing has been done on these inspection and monitoring tasks, so much so that what concerns us most about fishing relations with Equatorial Guinea is that the country may become a flag of convenience as a result of this lack of control, which has already led to sanctions from the ICCAT. The Commission must call on the Government of Equatorial Guinea to act in accordance with the Convention on Maritime Law and with international law. We call on the Commission to provide more information on these aspects and to act more diligently in dealing with the authorities of that country so that it may adapt its practices to international law and to the recommendations of the ICCAT. The Member States should also apply these principles in their relations with that country as well as within ACP fora. The sector too often feels abandoned as a result of the lack of a joint policy. Ladies and gentlemen, a single musician cannot perform a symphony. As well as a whole orchestra reading the same score, a conductor is required, and the Commission must show that it has the will to act as the conductor. And while the Commissioner is present and given that six months after the expiry of the agreement, negotiations with Cape Verde have ground to a halt, could he tell me if this deadlock is caused, as the press says, by differences on fishing opportunities and financial compensation, or by the Government of Cape Verde’s unwillingness to allow the Community to tell it what to do with that funding? – Mr President, the Union’s Mediterranean policy must not only gain shape, but also gain substance. It should be filled with content and not emptied. It is essential that we strengthen political, economic and social ties and continue to move forward. We now have an association agreement with Morocco, in force since 2 March, which makes that country a privileged partner. However, there can be no close cooperation with Morocco without dealing with an activity – fishing – on which the economies of many European regions depend. I would like to mention the fisheries agreement between the European Community and Morocco, which expired on 30 November last year. Well, four months later, we are in a vacuum. We still have no date for a start to negotiations. Not to renew that agreement would be a backwards step in our Mediterranean policy, because if that policy is to be more than empty rhetoric, we must make progress in specific cases. Mediterranean policy takes its name from the sea where, for centuries, European and North African fishermen have fished together. The Commission should fulfil its duty and ensure that these negotiations finally begin. – Mr President, I would also like to congratulate Mrs McKenna on behalf of my group, the Socialist Group, on this wonderful report which has allowed us to strengthen the legislation on the practice of fishing under flags of convenience, which in particular harms the professionals in the sector and the image they project. The Socialist Group is in total agreement with the conclusions of this report, above all with those which demonstrate the bad treatment received by the workers on these types of ships, in terms of working conditions, wages, safety and hygiene on board. We believe that it is necessary to encourage the governments which have not yet done so to sign up to the United Nations agreement on fish stocks, which is directly aimed at combating this kind of fishing. The control Regulation must be rigorously applied by all Member States and by the Commission, so that the landing in ports of this type of catch is not permitted. We also agree absolutely with the rapporteur when he asks the Commission to seal off the markets of all Member States against the products of illegal fishing, by adopting effective Community commercial and customs legislation. We believe that we will have to combat this type of fishing in ports and in terms of the marketing of products obtained from it. We believe that we will have to adopt as many measures as possible in order to eradicate illegal fishing. . –  Mr President, the Committee on Fisheries has voted in favour of the Commission proposal that we are now discussing, as we have done for previous resolutions adopted by this House. With regard to fisheries, the proposal affects fresh and chilled fish belonging to certain species such as sea bream, hake and sea bass, as well as smoked fish and salmon. The exemptions authorised – as those who have spoken before me have pointed out – must form part of a strategy for the economic and social development of the Canary Islands and thus contribute to the promotion and diversification of local activities. These tax measures are exceptional, specific and designed to compensate for the disadvantages suffered by the islands as an outermost region and are therefore fully covered by Article 299(2) of the Treaty. This is a legal basis which is aimed at allowing the local economic activities of the outermost regions to compete, despite the considerable disadvantages of their insularity and isolation and the small size of their local market. It is a legal framework that is not limited to this type of tax measures. In the area of fisheries, now that the common fisheries policy is to be reformed, for instance, the specific conditions deriving from their nature as outermost regions must be taken into consideration in the framework of Article 299(2), as indicated by the proposal which the committee itself has already adopted. Madam President, Greenland is an autonomous region of Denmark. It was part of the Community between 1973 and 1984. In 1984 a referendum was held in Greenland and 52% of its inhabitants expressed their wish to withdraw from the Union. Thereafter, relations with Greenland have been governed by the Greenland Treaty. This treaty accords Greenland a similar status to that enjoyed by 19 other territories, namely Overseas Country and Territory status. As a result fisheries products from Greenland may be exported freely to the Community in return for a favourable fisheries agreement. The latter was originally intended to last 10 years but has been extended several times. The 2002 fourth protocol provided for the mid-term review currently under way. The review is justified because of the lengthy period of time involved and the significant sums at stake. The scope of the communication from the Commission extends beyond matters relating exclusively to fisheries. This is because relations with Greenland involve many other issues. The Committee on Fisheries therefore believes Parliament must take the initiative and draft a general report dealing with political relations, development aid to Greenland and fisheries relations. The report should be set in the broader context of the Arctic dimension. (Madam President, I must point out that I am unable to see on the screen an indication of the number of minutes elapsed since I took the floor. I would like to know how much time I still have available.) As I was saying, in addition to dealing with relations between Greenland and the Union, the communication from the Commission contains a review of the current state of the agreement. Any amendment would have to be approved by the competent local authorities in Greenland. Consequently a thorough review is suggested, but only after 2006 when the agreement expires. A mere adjustment is proposed for the intervening period. Nonetheless, it is important to bear in mind criticisms made in the House and by the Court of Auditors. We therefore believe that even in the case of minor adjustments, the principles of good governance, transparency and optimal use of Community financial resources should be applied here and now. There is no need to wait until 2006 to do so. The conclusions reached by my colleague Mrs Langenhagen on the fourth protocol two years ago are still perfectly valid, as far as the mid-term review stage is concerned. There is a need to take issues other than fisheries out of the agreement. It is also necessary to keep the European Parliament informed on the use of fishing rights and to promote the establishment of joint venture companies. In addition to promoting joint venture companies, the Committee on Fisheries is now calling for the promotion of temporary relationships between undertakings. Such arrangements are more flexible. In this case they are better suited also to the current situation of both the European Community’s fisheries sector, and the fisheries sector in Greenland. The Committee on Fisheries is also calling for the cost of the agreement to be shared fairly, as is the case for agreements for the southern regions where the cost is divided equitably between the shipowners and the Community budget. I note, Commissioner, that the Commission has not even suggested this for the current adjustment. Further, the reason adduced does not seem to me to be particularly convincing. The reference to the small size of the administration in Greenland does not really provide adequate justification. The European Union pays Greenland a substantial sum each year in return for this agreement. The amount involved is EUR 42.82 million per year. This makes it the second most expensive agreement of all, after that with Mauritania. The price is actually exorbitant if it is also taken into account that at least EUR 14 million is not linked in any way to payment for fishing opportunities or the development of the fisheries sector. The fishing opportunities relating to the remaining EUR 28 million have a very low take up. Only the German, Danish, British and French fleets have quotas. No other fleets are allowed to make use of fishing opportunities paid for but not fished. This is certainly not the case under the southern agreements. Commissioner Fischler, we are delighted that this taboo was broken in the agreement reached between the Commission and the Government of Greenland in June. We welcome the fact that other fleets will be allowed access to fish for certain species and for experimental fishing activities, even if access is restricted. There is actually no provision for the promotion of joint venture companies or of temporary relationships between undertakings. Arrangements of this nature could prove very beneficial for Greenland, given that its economy is stagnating. They could also be beneficial to the Community. EUR 6 million was set aside for this purpose under the previous agreement. My fifth comment is that the agreement includes quotas for species such as cod and Norway haddock that are almost non-existent in Greenland waters. The Community pays for these although nothing is caught. We welcome the fact that the negotiators agreed on more realistic quotas in June. This means there will be increased opportunities for catching halibut, shrimps and queen crab. We are glad the negotiators made an effort to do away with the so-called paper fish. My sixth comment is that the Community’s financial contribution has increased for each successive protocol. At the same time, the fishing opportunities have decreased. Viewed in this light, the agreement is not sustainable. Further, the protocol is inconsistent, as Mrs Langenhagen stated at the time. In conclusion, the Commission is certainly to be congratulated on reconsidering the current arrangements with Greenland. It is encouraging that sensible steps have been taken. I mentioned some of them. They are part of the agreement reached with Greenland in June. Nonetheless, we believe that the Commission should be more ambitious and strive to introduce radical changes as of now. I assume the hope is that this fisheries agreement will cease to violate the principles we hold most dear. I refer to the principles underpinning Community financial provisions, namely transparency and optimal use of financial resources. More than a simple cosmetic review is needed. There is every reason why the European Union should support Greenland. A fisheries agreement is not the best way for the Union to do so, however. I made this clear to the Fisheries Minister for Greenland at our meeting here in Strasbourg last July. Greenland is the key to the development of the Union’s Arctic dimension. It would therefore be appropriate to consider financing areas of that relationship other than fishing with recourse to heading 4 of the financial perspective. Another option would be to finance them through the European Development Fund. Be that as it may, Parliament is basing its position on this report by the Committee on Fisheries. The House trusts that the Commission and the Council will take its position into account as of now. That would be the ideal. If this is not possible, our position should be borne in mind when preparing for negotiations on a new agreement in 2006. – I am requesting the floor for a point of order, if you will allow me, although I have no intention of taking up any debating time. I simply wanted to say that, without going into the pros or cons of the system for listing questions and putting them in order, I believe that my question and the question from Mr Ortuondo are very different, despite what he said a moment ago, although I admit that they involve the same issue. –  Mr President, we are now discussing the fifth amendment in two years to the regulation on technical measures for the conservation of juveniles of marine organisms. This is a report of a technical nature which is of no interest whatsoever to the majority of MEPs. However, perhaps their attitude would change a little if we were to explain exactly what it is about and how a report of this type can impact on the lives of the peoples of Europe. For this reason, Commissioner, I shall refer specifically to the carpetshell, which is mentioned in paragraph 4. I shall refer to carpetshells as I am delighted that the Commission has reduced the minimum size for selling carpetshells from 40 to 38 millimetres. Ladies and gentleman, this is a matter of 2 millimetres of carpetshell. These millimetres are important because when the landing size was increased to the current 40 millimetres, this caused serious problems for women who harvest shellfish in my region, Galicia, as it did for the whole marketing sector and for consumers themselves. In Galicia, shellfish gathering on foot – and this is how carpetshells are collected – is only done by women. It would take a long and complicated explanation to say why. The fact is that men gather shellfish at sea and using technology, albeit basic, and women gather shellfish on foot using a hoe. Approximately 10 000 women in Galicia extract carpetshells, as shellfish are not fished but rather extracted. These women work in a self-sacrificing way, working long days digging up hectares and hectares of beach in very difficult conditions for very low incomes. These women then see their income dwindle away as more than half their annual income is consumed by social security contributions. Evidence seems to contradict any research the Commission used to increase the minimum landing size of these molluscs as, from 30-32 millimetres upwards, the carpetshell is mature and can reproduce. Environmental conditions in densely populated areas where the carpetshell breeds and reproduces, such as in the estuaries of Galicia, do not allow them to reach the 40 millimetres required by the regulation which we are going to change today. The truth is that 80% of naturally produced carpetshells fall short of the current size requirement. If shellfish gatherers were to wait for carpetshells to reach this size, mortality would be considerable and such loss would be due to environmental conditions and not to the women’s actions. In places where molluscs are most abundant – and I am thinking of the Ferrol and Arosa estuaries – the size of carpetshells does not exceed 36 or 38 millimetres. Carpetshells measuring 40 millimetres are neither produced, sold nor consumed, simply because there are none. If we wish to avoid encouraging non-compliance, one of the tasks of this or any other Parliament is to ensure that the rules reflect real conditions. In the case of harvesting shellfish on foot, such non-compliance leads to illegal fishing and to a black market subject to no health checks. This House must realise that, by drawing up these technical measures, we are trying to protect juveniles, by allowing them to reach a certain size and breeding age, whilst at the same time trying to reduce unnecessary yields. But for a regulation to fulfil its purpose, it must be adapted to real conditions. As a result, not only will we benefit hard-working Galician shellfish gatherers but we will also benefit consumers as they will have access to a product that has passed all health checks. We will also encourage traders who will cease to feel persecuted by legislation that, if it were fully complied with, would lead to a shortage on the markets. For this reason, the Group of the Party of European Socialists – which I represent – supports the proposed amendment to this regulation, in the same way as it supports the amendment from the Committee on Fisheries on the size of deepwater rose shrimp. The only thing we hope, Commissioner, is that we do not have to review the regulation again within a year, because this would mean that both we and the European Commission had once again made a mistake in our calculations. But, if need be, we will be here to amend it once again. – Mr President, I believe that Gilles Savary has done magnificent work with these two reports. The routes of the railway structures on our continent were set a long time before Schuman made his famous speech on the . In those days, military factors were given priority over the transport of people and goods. In my country, Spain, as in Russia, a different gauge to the rest of Europe was chosen in order to make a possible military invasion more difficult, which proves that European construction was not the priority for those people who took the decisions on railway routes. Furthermore – as others have said – almost every country has constructed its network in a radial manner, around its capital, which is a serious obstacle to all those who want to create a different kind of route, such as from Spain to Germany or Italy to the UK without passing, for example, through Paris. Paris and many other capitals and almost all intra-European borders act as barriers for through rail routes. For this reason, the transport of passengers and goods by rail has been suffering for decades. We have managed to harmonise the European economy, but the current rail network is not a useful instrument for the single market. Therefore, we resort to road transport, despite the fact that it creates pollution and is dangerous. We must free the citizens of Europe from the road monopoly by offering them working railways throughout the Union which are competitive in relation to other modes of transport. The inclusion of a social clause seems to me to be an excellent idea. The railway workers are going to play an important role in interoperability and their interests must be addressed in the text of the directive. These workers have already paid the price for our forgetfulness. Their number has decreased by 500 000 in the last 15 years. It is possible to revitalise the railway, as certain projects that have already been undertaken demonstrate. A Community which is undergoing a rapid process of integration and which is facing imminent enlargement needs to improve the efficiency and quality of the railway services it offers to customers. As Mr Savary says, this would contribute to achieving the objective of sustainable mobility and greater social and economic cohesion in Europe. – Mr President, I should first like to thank the Commissioner for her presence in the House today. It is evidence of the great interest I know she has in this issue which is causing such concern to us all. The  was carrying twice as much crude oil in its tanks as the . The oil slick it caused is already an economic, social and environmental disaster for Europe, especially for my home region. It represents a mayor problem for Europe and its consequences will be felt for many long years. More than 300 km of coastline have been polluted. Three further spills have been detected and the strong wind from the south-west is bringing them closer to the coast. Shellfish production, inshore fishing, aquaculture, tourism and the very image of Galicia have all been seriously affected. Galicia is known to be an area prone to oil spills, yet it remains unprotected, despite the fact that 70% of Europe’s crude oil goes past its coastline. No effective lessons seem to have been learnt, even after enduring five oil spills. Sadly, it also has to be said that lack of equipment is currently hampering the efforts of many citizens eager to help. Pictures of hundreds of fishermen sewing together an enormous net four kilometres long to create an amateur device for holding back the oil speak volumes. So do pictures of people on beaches armed with buckets and spades. They show twenty-first century citizens coping with a nineteenth century disaster using Stone Age tools. Information has failed too. Spanish public opinion believes attempts were made to play down the gravity of the situation. This is in stark contrast to the grave concern expressed by European governments. The Commissioner rightly said that the disaster could have been prevented if European regulations had been applied. In addition, she stated that the Erika package will come into force in 2003. She went on to say, however, that despite Parliament’s express wish to the contrary, vessels without protective ballast tanks will be able to ply the seas until 2012. Those that do have such protection will be permitted up to 2026. Furthermore, the requirement for double hulls does not apply to small tankers, so they will still be able to sail also. That is why I am delighted with the Commissioner’s swift response. I welcome it and urge Member States in the Council to accept her proposals as a matter of urgency. Nonetheless, further action is needed. For example, tankers carrying dangerous goods should be required to set routes along the furthermost part of the shipping lane, and the Finisterre lane should be relocated away from the coast. It is certainly true that this issue calls for legislation at world level, but the European Union has to press ahead. The Socialist Group calls for a policy on transport and sustainable development based on the principle of maximum safety and prevention. Such a policy must reinforce cooperation within the Community, along with the means of inspection and safety standards. We reiterate the call for Community funds to be channelled to this disaster. Community aid must retain its credibility, however. You will recall that Galicia was recently let down when no Community agreement was reached with Morocco. The victims’ interests must come first. We therefore believe that the European Solidarity Fund set up recently is the most appropriate instrument in this case, as it is flexible, immediate, and was devised as a Community instrument. – Mr President, the Socialist Group supports the proposal for a Council Regulation on the European Community fisheries agreements with Mauritius and the Republic of Guinea. Both agreements fall within a general European Community policy based on our presence in the rest of the world. The fishing sector forms part of the Community’s economy and, in order for the Community fleet to be able to fish and carry out its activity, the Community must reach agreements with third countries and international organisations, so that our fishermen can enjoy adequate fishing allowances. Both agreements have been renewed regularly. In the case of Guinea we have had an agreement since 1983 and in the case of Mauritius since 1989. There can be no doubt about the cost-effectiveness of these agreements for the European Union, as demonstrated in the study commissioned by the Commission on their cost-benefit relationships. Nor can we doubt the beneficial effects for the other contracting parties, in this case Mauritius and the Republic of Guinea. Both countries gain valuable resources for their development in exchange for the fishing allowances which they grant to our fleet. These are agreements which benefit both parties and which have been amended over time, being adapted to the demands of the sustainable exploitation of resources and of actions supporting the efforts of the authorities in the third countries to develop their own fishing sector. The protocols that periodically renew the agreements have been adapted to the true situation, to the quantities of fish actually caught and the state of resources in those fishing grounds. Despite reducing the quantity of catches in the agreement with Guinea, the economic compensation to be received by the African country will be maintained, since the new protocol increases the amount of the tariffs and the licences which must be paid by Community shipowners. Therefore, the contrast with other agreements – I would like to highlight, for example, the agreement with Greenland, in which the shipowners do not contribute to its cost – is the all the more drastic. In the case of Mauritius, it also reduces the volume of authorised catches and specifies the number of vessels authorised to fish. The approval by the European Parliament of these two fisheries agreements sends a political message demonstrating our support for the signing and renewal of other fisheries agreements which are of much greater importance for our sector because of the number of ships and fishermen which depend on them. I am referring in particular to the agreement with Morocco. Seven hundred ships out of action is excessive, and 8 000 fishermen not working for 10 months are far too many, given that the contacts so far between the Commission and the Moroccan Government have offered little hope of success. Everybody must do their duty and fulfil their obligations. This institution has done so, with its Committee on Fisheries approving today, in a special meeting, the amounts proposed by the European Commission in the B7-800 line on fisheries agreements with third countries. It now falls to the European Commission to negotiate hard in order to reach a reasonable agreement with Morocco. We are still waiting for that to happen. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteurs for the three reports we are dealing with tonight, Mr Fava, Mr Stevenson and Mr Hudghton, and I would also like to say to the latter, Mr Hudghton, that I agree with many of the comments he made in his speech. I would also like to condemn the conceit of the Commission, which takes decisions behind the backs of the sector, the lack of communication between scientists and fishermen and I agree with him that none of this helps in promoting a credible image of Europe amongst our citizens. The time available for this debate is limited, and the issues dealt with by these three reports are very important. I will restrict myself to a brief comment on each of them. I believe that these three reports, particularly when debated together in this way, demonstrate the contradictory way in which the Commission presents its proposals on reform of the CFP. The report by Mr Fava on the action plan to counteract the social, economic and regional consequences of the restructuring of this industry in the European Union raises the need for the Community to deal with the losses with sufficient financial resources and without so much uncertainty, particularly in terms of employment, which this reform of the CFP will cause in the regions dependent on fishing. The Committee on Fisheries is requesting additional funding to alleviate the effects of this reform. The Commission must ensure that the socio-economic structure of these areas is maintained. It will be cheaper to support the maintenance of the existing socio-economic fabric than to stand back and watch it disappear and then try to create other replacement economic activities, with which these regions – and I agree with Mr Stevenson – would have great difficulties, since they are located in peripheral areas and suffer from a lack of professional training, new technologies, infrastructures and access to the markets. The Commissioner is well aware that each job on a ship generates from 4 to 5 jobs on land, and therefore the disappearance of fishing would cause serious disruption to the socio-economic fabric of these regions. With regard to the report on the management of fishing in relation to certain areas and resources, I believe that, when drawing up resolutions, we Members of Parliament must take account of reality. And the reality is that the transitional period following the accession of Spain and Portugal has come to an end. The CFP has quite enough exceptions already without restoring and perpetuating those which at one time were mere transitional mechanisms. Mr Stevenson, this exception, which has come to an end, is not one favour which is being exchanged for another. If anybody has led you to believe this, I am very sorry, because it has come to an end. It is a problem of legal basis and it has come to an end, and it is not being exchanged for anything. You helped us in Morocco; we will help you as much as we can, but the exception has ended. Finally, my group supports the Commission's proposal on the protection of juveniles. Correct and effective technical measures should be the basis for achieving the balance between fleet and resources. The excessive scrapping which some people want to see is anti-economic and antisocial, and could lead us to a situation in a few years when we have created sufficient quantities of fish but do not have either the ships or the fishermen to catch them. With regard specifically to the Irish Box, I believe that to use 1998-2002 to measure fishing is far too little, it is shameful. With regard to the consultative committees, I support this measure, but quite frankly I would like the Commission to clarify whether all the Member States are currently in an equal position to implement this new element. I would like to know whether we are all in an equal position, because, if we are not, we would be generating a new source of disparity, of unequal treatment and injustice, and I am told by the sector in my country that we are not all in an equal position. Mr President, on 27 June 2003 the Commission published a new proposal aimed at guaranteeing the sustainable recovery of the Northern hake stock and its reduction within what is considered the safe biological limit, a precautionary level of biomass which is set at 165 000 tonnes. The first innovation, which we should be grateful for, is that the Commission has finally decided to separate stocks of hake and cod into two different plans. There was no other choice following the clear improvement in hake stocks, a direct result of the management measures applied by the sector over the last two years. When we move on to the analysis of the measures proposed, we discover that the Commission is not taking account of the best scientific information available, nor is it dispelling the doubts of the fisheries industry, since once again there has been no dialogue with the scientists and the proposal has been drawn up without the serious participation of professionals. The Commission is working on the basis of scientific opinions the content of which it does not specify and which, as the rapporteur, Mr Souchet, quite rightly says in his explanatory statement, has not been revealed to the Committee on Fisheries either, despite our having requested it. The precautionary biomass should have been established on the basis of these scientific reports which do not exist. Neither does it appear that this biomass is in proportion to the state of the stock affected, since the latest independent scientific reports and observations of professionals demonstrate that it is not below the safe biological limits. Neither do we have scientific evaluations from the ICES which guarantee to us that the reduction of fishing effort proposed will lead to an effective reduction in catches, nor an evaluation of the effects of the technical recovery measures – which I referred to earlier – which have been applied for two years and have had such good results. Neither does the Commission’s proposal seek a balance between biological recovery and socio-economic repercussions. Once again, I must point out that the approach is based on exclusively biological considerations and does not take account of the socio-economic context when recommending the re-establishment of stocks within one year, rather than adopting a progressive approach, based on multi-annual TACs, and this is incompatible with the capacity for survival of the companies in this sector. The technical measures, which, as we have said, have produced good results, are completely overlooked. What Mr Souchet proposes in his report, namely the replacement of this recovery plan with a multi-annual management plan, is the result not just of the – I believe correct – analysis of the European Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries and of our own debate, but also of the guidelines already defined by the European Parliament itself and Mr Souchet in relation to the management of fragile stocks: the application of simple and flexible rules, such as multi-annual TACs, rather than rigid systems with uncertain effects, such as measures based on the fishing effort. – Mr President, the communication we are debating in favour of a uniform and effective application of the common fisheries policy is thought-provoking and leads us to consider issues which go beyond the CFP itself. The objective pursued – the coherent application of the common fisheries policy – should be extended to all Community policies and, furthermore, to European Union policies and Member States’ policies. We call for coherence, not contradiction, between the various Community policies and also between the various aspects of the CFP. We must direct all actions of the common fisheries policy towards a common objective, that of sustainable fishing, which is the only way to make fishing a lasting activity. But the Union’s other policies, such as industrial policy or environmental policy, must also contribute to the preservation of resources. The Community institutions have become, as a result of the principle of subsidiarity, a form of legislative machinery which depends for its execution on the Member States, which means that this uniform and effective implementation depends on the goodwill of those States. By the same token, infringements and compliance or non-compliance also depend on them. Violations of Community legislation are increasing, and this is undermining it and making it less and less effective. At the same time, calls for the renationalisation or regionalisation of Community policies such as the CFP are also increasing. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that the draft European Constitution lays down four exclusive competences for the Union and that one of them is precisely the management of fisheries sources. The parliamentary Group of the Party of European Socialists is therefore pleased that the Commission is proposing the creation of a common inspection structure. We have called for this common structure in numerous resolutions, such as the one adopted in relation to the Green Paper on the reform of the CFP. The Commission, therefore, has the support of Parliament. In Spain, the Count of Romanones, who was a minister during the era of the Restoration, at the beginning of the twentieth century, said: ‘laws are for Parliament, but leave the regulations to me’. Well, the objective of sustainable fishing will not be achieved on the basis of laws or on the basis of regulations, which are necessary but insufficient. It is essential to involve, on the one hand, the Member States and, on the other, all the agents who participate in the sector, in the broadest sense, including marketing, so that we can achieve this objective. Moreover, action cannot be restricted to the Community framework – as we see in every meeting of the Committee on Fisheries – since the causes of many of the problems facing our fishing arise at international level, and it is at that level that solutions can be found. Cooperation between the various administrations is therefore essential if we want the CFP to be successful. Furthermore, the regional and local administrations, which often, as in the case of marketing, are responsible for applying Community rules, must also feel that they are participating in decision-making. – Mr President, tomorrow this Parliament will approve the resolution on the Commission’s Green Paper on the future of the common fisheries policy, which draws up its future. I would like the motto ‘more Europe’, chosen by the Spanish Presidency, to be converted this year into the definitive integration of fishing into the single market, and I would like a CFP to be more participatory, a CFP whose definition and application involve the presence not only of central governments but also of the regions, of regions with competences in the field of fishing, and of course economic and social actors. Fishing, Mr President, works on an international basis, like the whole of the economy. Its reform cannot ignore this reality. Nevertheless, it worries us to see that the Community fleet’s access to external waters is being restricted and that our fleet is losing fishing grounds rather than gaining them. In six months’ time we will be able to judge this Presidency by its results and see whether it has been able to reverse this trend. Given the importance of this economic activity to numerous European regions, most of them peripheral and Objective 1, and its role as an element of economic integration and social cohesion, we want you to take it into account as a priority objective when it comes to strategies for safeguarding the European social model, which you mentioned in your speech. I would like you to make that explicit commitment here, thereby helping this sector to recover its fighting spirit and confidence. – Mr President, the majority of the borders, which have divided Europe for centuries, were artificially created, separating single geographic spaces and creating serious disparities in terms of balanced development and cohesion. Our internal borders, or what remains of them, no longer cause wars, but they do continue to generate economic backwardness, social barriers and a lack of cultural communication between the peoples of Europe. The Community’s institutions are obliged to work towards overcoming these border scars, which contradict the spirit of European unity. The economic and social cohesion which we propose is based, by means of the INTERREG initiative, on territorial cohesion and on the integration of border areas and the outermost regions of our continent. INTERREG has always been at the heart of a genuine Community policy for regional planning and a truly polycentric notion of our European territory. Although the European Parliament supports this initiative, our only regret is that we have to approve a resolution on it before we have seen any evaluation of INTERREG II. However, we are aware that we must not delay this third version further, since otherwise we would be jeopardising the success of various projects and the continuity of the projects which are currently underway. The success of INTERREG is clear and that is the opinion of the local, regional and national authorities which have participated in the cofinanced projects. The people who have participated in this initiative have learnt the importance of learning together, of innovation, of sharing projects and good practices and of understanding and tolerating each other. There are many interesting questions relating to it, the monitoring centre, the principle of concentration etc. However, I would like to concentrate on the management bodies. We must create joint, interregional and transnational management bodies, in which all local and regional authorities, as well as economic and social operators, play an active role. There must not be any repetition of cases of parallel projects on both sides of a border. We must create a cross-border culture, and to this end we must be innovative with regard to administrative cooperation, imaginatively overcoming existing barriers and overcoming the difficulties posed by the differing levels of competence in each Member State, in each region and each municipality. A project must never fail to be implemented as a result of difficulties in communication. During debates in committee, we have also pointed out the difficulties involved in coordinating INTERREG with other annual or biannual financial instruments, such as MEDA, TACIS or PHARE. This Parliament’s motion for a resolution has been very attentive to these difficulties, making proposals capable of solving them to the Commission and setting reasonable deadlines for making the necessary changes. –  Madam President, I offer my sincerest congratulations to my colleague, Catherine Stihler, for her excellent work, which gives the Council the opportunity to approve a much more balanced plan for these two species. I cannot, however, agree with her desire, as rapporteur, to reinstate hake in this report. As she well knows, I had tabled 13 amendments in committee aimed at softening the measures for hake, and more than half lapsed when the committee adopted the amendment tabled by Mr Varela, which separates the two species. Therefore, if we now approved the report for both species together, it would be highly unbalanced. The Community fisheries policy has to find a balance among the measures on stock conservation, the reasonable adjustment of the fleet to each Member State and the maintenance of economic activity in fishing-dependent regions. It is a complex approach. First of all, because overfishing is not the only cause of stock depletion: the indiscriminate catching of species for fishmeal production interrupts the food chain for cod and hake and to a great extent causes the situation both species are going through. There are certainly highly significant differences between these two fisheries as regards their mortality and growth rates and the conservation measures needed. The situation of cod in the North Sea and off Scotland is different, just as the situation of northern hake off south-western Ireland differs from that off the French coast. Not all species – and this is something we have to say out loud – and not all fishing grounds are in the same state. In this respect, the Committee on Fisheries considered that the hake and cod situations are different, and that hake should have different measures from cod, which should be adopted based on confirmed scientific reports. There is no single, unified and indisputable scientific basis to indicate that the northern hake stock has fallen below the biological safety limit, and there does not seem to be a need for drastic management measures to save this stock. We cannot forget the great economic and social impact that these measures will have on the fishing communities. The Commission has not undertaken any study of these consequences or of those that must be taken into account when the plan is implemented, nor has it shown us an evaluation of the emergency measures it adopted in 2001. It must be remembered too that the TAC for hake was cut by 51% between 1999 and 2001. The European fishing fleet quite reasonably needs to know what prospects there are for this activity. My group is therefore opposed to drastic cuts, which can be brought in over longer periods. We therefore support the rapporteur’s Amendment 8, and once again I sincerely congratulate her on the excellent work she has done. . – Mr President, the Committee on Regional Policy is pleased with the initiative to lay down the classification of territorial units for statistics in a Regulation, thereby providing it with a legal basis. Until now, because there has been no such legal basis, changes and updatings have been carried out by means of gentlemen's agreements between Member States and Eurostat. I believe that statistics are neither neutral nor politically innocent. I therefore believe that this proposed regulation is of great political importance, not only because it will be applied when determining which regions will receive Structural Funds, but also because it provides a certain vision of Europe, of its territorial reality, of its regional and provincial organisation and hence of its disparities and imbalances. The proposal divides the territory of the States into statistical units organised hierarchically into three levels, and proposes criteria for the definition of these regions in the candidate countries, criteria which demand that they continue to be defined on the basis of territorial organisation and within the current demographic borders. The Committee on Regional Policy shares the objectives which the Commission expresses in its proposed Regulation, but nevertheless considers that the classification obtained is not entirely suited to those objectives, which means that it is perceived by some citizens as an artificial division of European territory. In fact, in the annex, the Commission restricts itself to presenting the existing administrative territorial units in each Member State, mixing them with others which do not have the same institutional character, which means that there is a clear lack of homogeneity. The Committee on Regional Policy believes that the proposal should include a European approach which is capable of overcoming the framework of borders between States. In this respect, NUTS level 1 should take account of large territorial units which transcend these borders, which are intended to serve as a basis for the future planning of European territory. Ladies and gentlemen, NUTS level 1 has clear shortcomings. Only the regions of Germany and Belgium are considered units, while in other Member States, such as Spain, France or Italy, NUTS 1 level corresponds to enormous conglomerates or regions which are totally artificial and almost always arbitrary. At the other extreme, the proposal names the Finnish Island of Aland as a NUTS 1 unit, despite the fact that its 25 000 inhabitants are way below the minimum of 3 million required for that demographic bracket. I still believe that the Commission’s proposal should have been more daring, more coherent and, perhaps, if you will allow me, more European. There are even more disparities in level 3, where a single Member State, Germany, has more units than eight Member States put together: France, Italy, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Netherlands, Denmark, Ireland and Luxembourg. In relation to the surface area of the territorial units, the imbalance is also evident, since in the proposal the prevailing criterion is population rather than geographical size. The Committee on Regional Policy urges the Commission and the Member States to work towards the creation of NUTS level 4 and even NUTS level 5, which would represent local bodies. The Committee on Regional Policy is presenting Parliament with eleven amendments to this proposal. I must point out that this report was approved in committee by 43 votes in favour and one abstention. As rapporteur, I support these amendments and reject the other amendments presented in Parliament, which were rejected in committee. I believe that the report approved by the Committee on Regional Policy should be accepted by Council and the Commission. Its acceptance could prevent a second reading and a conciliation procedure and would allow the Regulation to enter into force on 1 January 2002. If that is the case, we should be pleased that we have produced a legal text providing the basis for determining the territorial units necessary for gathering statistical information in this great Europe of the future. Let us not fall into the trap of statistics being the art of indicating that two people have eaten well, when, in fact, one of them has eaten two chickens and the other has eaten none. –  Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Lisi, on the report he has prepared, and in particular on his will and his way of working, which has enabled the other members of the Committee on Fisheries, as he said himself, to enter into a fruitful and positive dialogue when drawing up this report. The Mediterranean, which is the cradle of European civilisation, is a responsive, living, but extremely fragile place, characterised by its status as an enclosed sea, which brings its own dangers. There are therefore no easy solutions to problems such as industrial pollution – as the rapporteur himself pointed out – or pollution due to high demographic density. The Action Plan presented by the European Commission is necessary. We need an all-embracing Action Plan that is not restricted to fishing methods, because nobody could believe that the current scarcity of fish is due solely to overfishing. It is due rather to a combination of factors, mainly marine pollution due to agricultural pesticides reaching the sea, oil slicks and everyday leaks from oil tankers, and the lack of purifying plants for treating sewage. We therefore urgently need to adopt measures o combat industrial and urban pollution in the Mediterranean. We also need to put a stop to the infringements of the common fisheries policy that currently take place, such as illegal fishing, the use of illegal methods, parallel trading and lack of compliance with standards relating to minimum size. The Mediterranean fishing sector is fragile. Its fleet – as we have already heard – essentially comprises small-scale fishing boats. The sector therefore needs the continued support of the public authorities if it is to develop in a controlled manner without growth for some leading to bankruptcy for others. This applies equally to the small-scale fishing fleet, aquaculture – a growing industry – or marketing. As the Commissioner has pointed out, the characteristics of the Mediterranean are highly specific. Around twenty countries – most of which are not EU Members – as well as world fleets operate in this area, such as the Japanese and Russian fleets. The Community needs to ensure, in conjunction with the General Fisheries Council for the Mediterranean, that all parties comply with the principles of the common fisheries policy with regard to the Mediterranean. Without sustainable management of resources, the days of fishing in the Mediterranean are numbered, as this area provides a livelihood for almost half the workers in the Community fishing sector and half the European fleet. As Mr Lisi has pointed out, the fishing sector in the Mediterranean employs a large workforce and has a positive effect on other sectors, such as tourism. Poor application of the principle of subsidiarity – and this is perhaps the strongest objection I would put to Mr Lisi – resulting in the renationalisation of the CFP, would be a death sentence for fishing in the Mediterranean. I therefore believe we urgently need to apply the CFP in its entirety in the Mediterranean, adapting it to the reality of the Mediterranean situation and considering in advance, where we feel it necessary, what exactly are the prevailing conditions in this area. We need to adapt the fleet to existing resources, but we cannot – and here I agree with Mr Lisi – sentence it to ruin, as might happen if aid for renovating the fleet was discontinued. The ageing of the fleet would lead to the end of fishing in the Mediterranean, as surely as if there were no more fish. The Group of the Party of European Socialists – and I should make this clear – supports the Action Plan presented by the Commission, which should be implemented with the utmost regard for the special characteristics of the Mediterranean. –  Mr President, I said a month ago that this was a European disaster and requested a European response. The Galician citizens – my fellow citizens – who are caught up in a titanic fight against the oil that has arrived on their doorsteps, have been the casual victims and have paid the price for all European citizens. Since day one, therefore I have insisted both here and there on the need to provide a clear and simple European response, as we did for the floods in Germany, which takes account of two aspects: prevention and mitigation. Should we toughen and change transport legislation? Yes. Should we reprimand ministers? Yes. But we need to do more. We need to explain to the people who are currently collecting oil by hand why there are no resources and assure them that, if this were to happen again, these resources would be available. We need to tell them, at the very least, that we are sorry for the lack of resources and coordination that there have been in addressing this disaster from the very beginning. They are the ones who are enduring this, and their cries for help have reached this Parliament, and we cannot deny this fact. The Galician, and therefore, European citizens need to feel supported in the long and difficult journey into which the negligence of their own ministers has thrown them. We therefore cannot understand why anyone in this Parliament would be opposed to knowing what has happened, where mistakes have been made and what we must do to ensure that this never happens again. This is not a disaster of European dimensions: it is a European disaster and we do not want it to be repeated anywhere. If it does happen again, however, we clearly cannot act as we have done here. The pathetic images that have been shown around the world – which have shown what I saw – make it unnecessary, Mr Galeote, for me to give any further explanation. We Galicians are strong. We always have been, we have always been able to fight against adversity and we shall not let ourselves be beaten by this disaster. What my people in Galicia cannot understand is why, if all of Europe recognises the lesson that we as a people are giving, the PPE-DE Group in this Parliament continues to deny us the opportunity to clarify what has happened, assess the damage and propose emergency and crisis management programmes at European level that could serve all Europeans. We are not the ones who can answer this question, we compatriots, as Mr Galeote says. Compatriots are not the same thing as accomplices, and we do not want to be accomplices. Do not insult us by asking us for complicity in the decisions of a government that for a whole month tried to minimise this disaster and has been incapable of mobilising the Community institutions. On the other hand, Mrs de Palacio, you should ask the Spanish Government a question. Nobody has been able to use and set in motion the abundant means available to Europe. Why not? –  Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group and also as the Socialist coordinator of the Committee on Fisheries to draw the attention of the House to the oil spill from the , to which previous speakers have also referred, which took place last week near the coast of my region, Galicia. On Thursday – the accident happened on Wednesday – I tabled a motion for a resolution before this House and also tabled two motions for resolutions, because I understand there are common interests here: environmental interests, fisheries interests – which the Committee on Fisheries will have to pursue – and interests relating to the maritime transport of dangerous goods, which the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism will have to pursue. The tanker has already left an oil slick 37 km long which is spreading towards the coast, paradoxically, despite being named  – and you can see that this will indeed be a European problem – it is Bahamas-flagged, with a Philippine-Romanian crew, it was travelling from Lithuania – a candidate country – to Gibraltar, which involves a European Union country, a Member State, in this case the United Kingdom, and was under the command of a Greek captain. I would call on the Community institutions to strengthen legislation in this field, comply with existing legislation and devote their attention to this kind of disaster by means of European solidarity, such as that provided, for example, in the cases of the natural disasters that have taken place in four Member States over the summer. Mr President, it is me again. International fisheries agreements with third countries have always been one of the key elements of Community fisheries policy. Half of our fisheries products, consumed fresh or used for processing, originate from waters outside the Community in which third countries exercise the right to exclusive use of resources. In economic terms, the European Union is an enormous market of more than 370 million inhabitants, an expanding market with a deficit in fisheries products. This situation determines the European Union's commercial policy in the field of fisheries. Given its volume, the Community market is the world’s main market for sea products. The Socialist Group therefore supports the conclusion of this agreement between the Community and Mozambique and congratulates the rapporteur, Mr Stevenson, who has produced a wonderful report. We have absolutely no doubt that this agreement will contribute to strengthening mutually beneficial relations with that Republic. It will not only contribute to the supply of the Community market but it will also mean - as Mr Piscarreta said – aid for the development of Mozambique’s fisheries sector, all within the framework of sustainable development. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that strengthening commercial relations between the European Union and Mozambique, is not simply demagoguery, but might actually help to improve the lives of the Mozambican people. Surely it is good development aid policy for the so-called first world to buy from the developing countries their most valuable products, whether they are diamonds or prawns, and that the fruits of these sales should promote fundamental strategic sectors such as local agriculture. The Socialist Group therefore supports the amendments of the rapporteur, Mr Stevenson, and those of the Committee on Budgets. We agree with the wishes of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, although we regret that we cannot support its proposals, since they have not been presented in the form of amendments to the legislative text, as is always required in these cases. – Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists supports this proposed regulation on the renewal of the fisheries agreement with Madagascar. We also support the excellent report by Mrs Fraga Estevez , and we ask the Council to incorporate the amendments approved by the Committee on Fisheries. On many occasions we have complained, always justifiably, about the lack of coherence of the Commission and the Council, which sometimes verges on the arbitrary, in relation to the negotiation and signing of fisheries agreements. It is the sector itself which suffers from this lack of direction, and it does not feel that it is supported by the Commission. The Commission sometimes gives the impression that it wants to forget the conclusions of the Luxembourg Council of October 1997 on the policy of fisheries agreements with third countries, which explicitly recognised the socio-economic advantages of those agreements for the Community, both in terms of the supply of raw materials and employment, and which are – and will continue to be – an essential element of the common fisheries policy. I share the concern mentioned by the rapporteur in her report relating to the fact that more than 62% of the cost of the agreement corresponds to development cooperation actions and has nothing to do with financial compensation for the agreed catches. We are in favour of development cooperation and budgetary transparency. These actions must therefore be financed by the European Development Fund which, to date, has financed the development of the fishing sectors of the developing countries to the not inconsiderable tune of EUR 421 million. This agreement, like all fisheries agreements with third countries, is aimed at a specific form of fishing – in this case, tuna – clearly outside the 6-12 mile zone, and includes absolutely limited and measured annual fishing opportunities for an also limited and measured number of ships – 80. The shipowners pay an amount per tonne – EUR 25 – which, as the rapporteur has pointed out, is something that only happens in the Southern agreements. The shipowners are obliged, furthermore, to employ a significant number of Malagasy seamen, which is rising from 6 to 40, as has also been pointed out. I congratulate Mrs Fraga Estevez once again on her excellent report which clearly demonstrates that, of the fisheries agreements signed by the developing countries with third countries, it is those which they sign with the European Union which achieve and guarantee a greater degree of transparency and control of fishing activities in those areas. – Mr President, we are talking today about a type of fishing, that of highly migratory fish, which requires the European Commission to maintain a strong international presence. To the increasing activity which the European Commission must carry out in the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna we can add that which is carried out in the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission and the activity which is required by its participation in the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission. The Commission’s human resources for this task are altogether insufficient and the sector therefore feels under-represented. Furthermore, neither the Commission nor the Member States affected are carrying out parallel diplomatic work in the search for allies, since there is a lack of a cross-sector focus and a joint vision in the Union’s external relations, which leaves our fishing sector unprotected, which is not the case with the fleets of other fishing powers. In the practical field, we pay the price for this when it comes to decision making or reaching agreements, as happened in relation to the lack of scale on swordfish at the last ICCAT meeting. We therefore wish to see the creation of a specific unit for highly migratory fish in the Directorate-General for Fisheries. A single text and a single regulation require that we have a single management unit. In relation to the reports by Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna and Mr Piétrasanta, I congratulate both rapporteurs on their wonderful work. The Socialist Group supports the Community meeting all the expenses incurred by the observers, since the representation of the Union in the international fishing organisations falls within its exclusive competence. We also support the request for greater information on the control and monitoring activities carried out within the regional fishing organisations. My group also supports the amendments in the report by Mr Piétrasanta, whom I congratulate on his very thorough work, including the Latin corrections. I believe there are questionable aspects in his explanatory statement, but we share his concern about the presence of ships flying flags of convenience whose operation does not come under any control. The Community and the RFOs must not hesitate to confront them, because the first to be affected by this type of fishing are the resources and the Community fleet, which complies with the rules of the common fisheries policy. The Commission must liaise with the sector in order to define the strategy on the management, control and conservation of these highly migratory species. In our view, the strategy must be based on the defence of the historic rights corresponding to our fleet. Commissioner, if the Commission wants an easy negotiation, the simplest thing is to agree with the other States, as happens too often, and give in to States which have no fleet or any real interests. However, the Community fishing sector has created a market which did not exist before and has made great sacrifices in adapting the fleet to the resources available, and therefore before allocating higher quotas to other countries the quotas corresponding to the Community fleet must be respected. Lastly, we Socialists believe that the Commission must pursue certain imports, mainly those from Indonesia, which are based on dumping. It is estimated that this type of import, which enter the Community with an export subsidy from Indonesia, amounts to 14 000 tonnes. .  The Commission’s proposal to award such widely varying amounts of aid from the Solidarity Fund is the result of the very different assessments of the damage caused undertaken by the governments concerned and submitted to the Commission. Those regions affected by the  disaster are set to receive less than a fifth of the amounts Portugal and Italy are to be awarded following the fires and the earthquake. This is due to the Government of Spain adopting a mistaken strategy. It understated the extent of the disaster. Consequently the regions affected will receive far less from the Community than they are entitled to. The EUR 8.6 million in question is the only additional sum Spain is to receive further to the disaster. The only Community aid received to date resulted from reprogramming funds previously allocated to Spain. In the light of research such as that undertaken by the Barrie de la Maza Foundation, this is a derisory amount. This research sets the damage at between EUR 4 000 million and EUR 6 000 million. According to the Government of Spain it is only EUR 436 million. The  accident was comparable to the  disaster. Then, the United States estimated the damage at USD 10 000 million. .  Mr President, the European Commission dealt with the security of passengers on cruise liners in Europe some time ago, in the White Paper on transport. Parliament has also expressed its concerns on security and on the causes of fishing accidents. The House called for a high level of security for both passengers and crew. As the Commissioner stated, however, it was following the tragic events of 11 September that the International Maritime Organisation called for new measures. At its November meeting the IMO unanimously agreed that new measures should be drawn up for the security of ships and port facilities. Maritime transport of passengers or cargo is deemed to be one of the most vulnerable sectors at the present time. These new international instruments will come into force automatically for all Member States on 1 July 2004. It is important to bear this in mind. The measures must therefore become part of Community legislation prior to that date, so that experience can be gained regarding their interpretation and harmonised application, and also concerning Community monitoring. I should like to thank my colleagues on the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism for their understanding in responding to the urgency. I must thank them too for the flexibility they showed in dealing with this draft regulation. I also appreciate their support for this report. The latter was adopted unanimously, with one single abstention. I am particularly grateful for the work undertaken by those who served as draftsmen of the opinion. I refer to Mr Oreja Arburua and Mr Folias. I am indebted to them both for their considerable help and support. In my view, this suggests the European Parliament endorses such a global approach. It also suggests the House believes that problems affecting the whole planet are best dealt with by means of measures proposed by international organisations. This should prove more effective than the adoption of unilateral measures. The measures adopted by the IMO only apply to international maritime transport. Nonetheless, the cross-border sector is not the only one under threat. The RETT Committee welcomed the extension of these measures at European level, to cover domestic routes and the relevant port facilities. As a result, security standards within the Community will be higher than those provided for at international level. Maritime security must be more than a response to the terrorist threat. It must also include appropriate preventive measures to counter threats of all kinds. That is why the draft regulation broadens the scope of mandatory measures to include not only passenger ships but also cargo ships such as those transporting containers, chemical substances, gases and crude oil. The port facilities used by these ships are also covered.  Maritime security has become an issue of grave concern for European citizens, following the serious maritime accidents in European waters in recent years. I have in mind the  and especially the . The first anniversary of that disaster is currently being marked. As we speak, in another room in this building, the leader of the regional government in Asturias is presenting the conclusions of a report on this terrible accident in the hope of assisting us in our work. The amendment of the SOLAS Convention and of Part A of the ISPS Code involves mandatory provisions. Part B of the aforementioned code consists of recommendations, but the Commission is proposing that some of these should become mandatory. The RETT Committee endorses this approach. The mandatory measures concern equipment on board and lay down a set of security measures. Other measures concern the theoretical and practical training of staff concerned, and lay down clearly the duties and responsibilities of the various actors. The draft regulation also provides for some of the recommendations in Part B of the ISPS Code to become mandatory. The aim is to increase the level of security and forestall differences of interpretation. The European Commission is to be responsible for verification of the effectiveness of the national plans of Member States and of the activities of the national authorities. The European Maritime Safety Agency will be charged with providing support for the execution of these tasks. The RETT Committee paced itself to comply with the tight deadlines imposed by procedures in the House. The Vice-President of the Commission referred to this earlier. It is hoped that this range of measures will come into force in July 2004. Simultaneously, we have worked closely with the Council and the Commission with the aim of ensuring that this regulation is adopted at first reading as befits the urgency of the measures to be taken. The RETT Committee deemed it necessary to draft a number of important comments to improve the proposal. One of these was mentioned earlier. It involves applying the measures to cargo ships as well as to passenger ships. Another concerned setting up a European coastguard service or body before 2010. The members of this committee urged the European Commission to table a directive on overall security of port facilities before the end of 2003. The directive should include accompanying security measures applicable in all Community ports. It should cover all the workers concerned. I have in mind seafarers, port workers and all professionals required to work in these areas at times. We believe it is essential for the seafarers to be guaranteed training, exercises and practical experience involving the staff responsible. In addition, we share the Commission’s concern regarding containers. We trust the work we have undertaken will facilitate an agreement between the institutions. It would then be possible for this regulation to be applied as from 1 July 2004. The European Parliament has done good work. That work can help improve the various aspects of security relevant to maritime transport. It responds to the citizens’ concerns. Mr President, I should like to make a technical comment with regard to Amendment16. The text endorsed by the RETT Committee and which appears as the new Article 3 paragraph 2, subparagraph 2a actually replaces subparagraph 2 of paragraph 2 of Article 3. . Madam President, with regard to this Fisheries Agreement with Greenland, perhaps the first thing we should remember is that it is the second most expensive agreement signed by the European Union, after the Agreement with Mauritania. Furthermore, there is a difference between the two agreements I have mentioned, which we call the difference between the ‘northern agreements’ and the ‘southern agreements’. The northern agreements have a whole series of characteristics, which I will explain during my speech, which differentiate them from the southern agreements. A lot has been said about this Fisheries Agreement with Greenland, all kinds of things have been said and almost all of it is true. For example, the Court of Auditors emphasised that the Fisheries Agreement with Greenland did not respect certain basic budgetary rules, fishing opportunities, for example. Of the EUR 42.8 million this agreement costs, just 28 were spent on fishing opportunities and furthermore this included paper fish, so called because they were fish that, although they were paid for, did not exist in Greenland’s waters because they had disappeared long ago. As well as the fact that the use of fishing quotas was very low and was far from achieving the value expected for fishing opportunities, only four Member States could and can fish within the framework of this Agreement: the United Kingdom, Germany, France and Denmark. The other Member States were and continue to be excluded from these waters. It should be pointed out that this exclusion and this non-use of fishing quotas paid for caused and continues to cause a series of distortions such as, for example, the case of certain Member States benefiting from the agreement having tried to re-sell unused quotas, because they are not of interest to the consumer market of that Member State, but they are of interest for consumption in other States. In addition to this distortion (the attempt to re-sell something already paid for), there has been and there still is fishing of unused quotas by vessels flying the flags of those Member States, but which in reality are not from those Member States or any other Member State, but which are third-country vessels. The fact is that there is a desire to acquire these unused quotas, or at least to begin fishing, though of an experimental nature, on the part of certain Member States which are not included as beneficiaries of this agreement or which were excluded – such as the Iberian fleets: the Spanish and the Portuguese – at the time of our accession to the European Community, despite the fact that we have been fishing in those waters for centuries. The Commission recognised all these distortions in its document and proposed a mechanism according to which the Commission could temporarily transfer unused fishing opportunities to another Member State, only during that particular year and without prejudice to the allocation of quotas in future years. We thought this was a good mechanism, above all because it was a trial mechanism and it would be possible to verify whether it worked or not as time passed. However, in the Committee on Fisheries an amendment was approved, presented by nationals of certain Member States involved, to the effect that the Commission could establish consultation procedures between the Member States, but that it would be the States which had the quotas who could determine or decide on their distribution or allocation to other Member States which are not beneficiaries but which have an interest in fishing in that area. I believe that, in reality, the central debate in relation to this issue is whether the Commission only plays a facilitating role or whether, since we are talking about a Community fisheries agreement, it must ensure the best possible level of use of fishing opportunities which, as I have said, have been acquired and paid for from Greenland by the Community, within the framework of this Fisheries Agreement. I believe we are talking essentially not about national issues – because, in the fisheries agreements, in general – and those of us who are here are well aware of this – national issues are always very prevalent and they always cause many tensions – but about the principle of good financial management, the Gordian knot of this issue. It is a question of defining this principle in relation to principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness, and ensuring compliance, by means of the monitoring of performance indicators, which are established by activity and which furthermore are measurable, so that the results achieved can be observed. I say this from the standpoint of somebody who has worked on this Agreement for a long time and who I believe has a thorough knowledge of it. Furthermore, Greenland is entirely in favour of the approach I have just expressed here – in fact, it has already reached an agreement with the Commission – and I believe this would be a good signal for us to send to two Community fleets: to let them fish – not everything, but at least a bit – in those waters. , . – Mr President, I join some of my fellow Members in congratulating Mrs Haug on her report. I know that it has not been easy and we therefore thank her even more, if possible, for her work. The common fisheries policy, ladies and gentlemen, represents a very small part of the Community budget: we are talking about barely a billion euros. This is not enough to meet the challenges of the Common Fisheries Policy, to finance the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance, the fisheries agreements and our participation in international organisations, to monitor the implementation of the CFP, the common organisation of the market for fisheries products and aquiculture, research into the fishing environment and the compilation of data which is essential for the implementation of the CFP. The Committee on Fisheries, which shares with the Commission the principle of budgetary stringency, has accepted the limits set by the latter in its preliminary draft and has indicated its concerns in certain budget headings. We have asked an indicative appropriation of EUR 2 million to be approved for an information campaign on the CFP. An information campaign disseminating the principle on which the CFP is based – the sustainable exploitation of marine resources – is essential. Quality products must be highlighted, conservation standards, such as the observation of minimum fish sizes, must be circulated and we must explain to consumers the health benefits of eating fish. The Committee on Fisheries has approved another amendment increasing the appropriations intended for controlling and observing fishing activities in Community and third-country waters. We have criticised the shortcomings and the marginal role of the Commission in the policy of control and observation and we therefore believe that this policy must be supported with an increased budget. The primary aim of the Committee on Fisheries’ petitions is to improve the CFP’s potential for maintaining and creating employment. Whilst employment may be the European Union’s priority policy, fisheries, as another economic sector, cannot remain on the sidelines. The CFP is tremendously important for maintaining employment in the peripheral regions, which are very dependent on fishing. Our priorities are, and must be, to consolidate and increase international fishing agreements and to improve safety and working conditions within the sector and conserve resources. The cheapest jobs, ladies and gentlemen, are those that do not need to be created because they have not been lost. It is better to support activities that already generate jobs than to have to invest vast amounts later in creating new industries. In conclusion, I would particularly like to mention a topic with regard to which Parliament is to issue its assent. I am referring to the fisheries agreement with Morocco. The Committee on Fisheries asks that line B7-8000 should include an entry of EUR 125 million to cover the financing of this agreement for the year 2001. All parties must assume their responsibilities and fulfil their obligations. The Commission in its executive capacity must negotiate with weighty arguments to achieve a reasonable agreement with Morocco and the Council and the governments concerned should provide a political impetus for this negotiation. –  Given that we are currently reforming the CFP, given that farmers are being encouraged to commit themselves to multifunctionality, that the rural economy is to be protected through diversification, and given that the important role played by women in this diversification was recognised, for example, at the meeting of the Agriculture Council of 27 May 2002, I would like to ask the Commissioner if he believes that perhaps the Commission should hold a similar discussion with regard to the reform of the common fisheries policy, because – as I have said many times – the number of women active in this sector is tremendous. Furthermore, those who are not directly involved play a secondary role at their husbands’ side – which is even more serious, as their work is invisible and they do not receive any social or economic recognition. I should like to ask the Commissioner if the Commission has prepared any documents or actions in this regard. – Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists agrees with the conclusions of the rapporteur, Mr Ojeda, and of the Committee on Fisheries and will therefore vote in favour of the extension of the fisheries agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Guinea. Having said this, we should learn certain lessons when it comes to renewing other fisheries agreements. Firstly, duration. It is not good either for the Community or for the other contracting party, or for the fisheries sector, for agreements to be of such a short duration – two years – as the existing one between the European Union and Guinea. In order to make the necessary planning, it would be more appropriate to have an agreement of five years, even if it contains a mid-term review clause. I must therefore express my satisfaction with the announcement Commissioner Fischler has just made to the effect that the next agreement will last for five years, if I have understood correctly. Agreements must also serve the Community in terms of establishing strategic alliances within international fora with a view to making effective progress in the fight against illegal fishing, which is the greatest scourge faced by sustainable fishing and the future of fisheries. We want the Community to help the Guinean authorities responsible for controlling and monitoring fishing activities in order to achieve sustainable exploitation of the fisheries resources of the country, showing respect for the environment and marine resources. Our group therefore believes that it is justified to support this extension as requested by the rapporteur, Mr Ojeda, who has done wonderful work, since, as in the case of the other commercial fisheries agreements, it is beneficial to both parties, since it contributes to the development of local fishing, increases food safety in the country, allows its port infrastructure to be improved and because the money paid by the European Community means significant income in the form of financial compensation for the public coffers of the Republic of Guinea. Furthermore, this agreement contributes in turn to European economic and social cohesion, since it benefits fleets from regions highly dependent on fishing, peripheral regions and regions with incomes below the Community average. I would ask the Commission, when considering a further renewal of this agreement, to take account of the request, already made by Parliament on other occasions, to include the social clause in the next protocol. – I would describe the debate taking place here today on the common fisheries policy as back-to-front or, at least, as ‘putting the cart before the horse’. Since the Commission wants – and it has let this be known – the reformed CFP to enter into force in 2003, it is asking us to decide immediately on the appropriations which, according to the Commission, the reform will imply: EUR 32 million payable by means of the flexibility instrument, intended to finance the specific measure for scrapping vessels. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that this Parliament has yet to give its opinion on the fundamental elements of this issue. This proposed scrapping means the disappearance of 28 000 fishing jobs in Europe, it has been rejected in general by the sector and this House has demanded further details from Commissioner Fischler as soon as possible. The Commission has delayed the presentation of its proposals horrendously and they are also partly the result of this delay. The Commission, for its preliminary draft budget, should – we believe – have worked on the basis of the Resolution approved by this Parliament in relation to the Green Paper on the reform. This Resolution approved by the European Parliament rejected the reduction of aid to the fleets while, on the other hand, the Commission is proposing to remove it. With regard to the outstanding commitments for the restructuring of the Moroccan fleet, we would ask the House for them to be included in the budget, in accordance with the approved Resolution. – Madam President, Commissioner, in a world which is becoming more and more interdependent, in which the problems which affect us usually have their roots in areas poles apart from us, we are obliged to work together with other countries in order to manage the planet’s resources properly, by respecting rules which are common to all of us. Commissioner, fishing is a sensitive area which must be discussed in the Millennium Round in accordance with its characteristics and through an interpretation which links it to agricultural products, as laid down in the Treaty. This is because agriculture and fisheries have similar characteristics for us Europeans. Both activities are linked to the sustainable exploitation of natural resources and both affect the economic and social cohesion of Europe. Fishing and agriculture guarantee the survival of our socio-economic fabric and contribute in a fundamental way to the supply of our food market. Mr Lamy, fish are not shoes or screws. They cannot therefore be treated as non-agricultural products in Seattle. Agriculture and fishing provide us with food. The inevitable globalisation of the market must not mean a lowering of our food safety standards nor of the social rights of our workers, nor must it lead us to forget our poorer regions. Mr President, the FIPOL Protocol that we are debating today, to increase the financial resources available to compensate victims of spillages, is another matter which I would like to say to Commissioner de Palacio has nothing to do with the . In fact, it would be ludicrous to tell the victims of this disaster that, because of the fact that we, Europe as a whole, did not do our duty, they are only going to be compensated for 15% of the damage suffered, because the fund for that purpose only has EUR 170 million available and because unfortunately this increase that we are debating today is not retroactive. Following the  accident (we are talking about November 1999) it became clear that the compensation system was inadequate for dealing with this type of disaster, both at international and European level, where such mechanisms were not provided for. The IMO decided, a long time before the  sank, to increase the amount allocated to the FIPOL to compensate victims to EUR 600 million, and in 2000, the Commissioner proposed creating an additional European fund, Compensation for Oil Pollution in European waters (COPE), with a limit of one billion euros. The proposal received the support of the European Parliament, but was rejected by the Council, which opted to negotiate in the IMO. Although the IMO finally established a new fund, and even set it close to the magic and famous billion figure, that amount will never be able to ensure full and swift compensation for victims of future oil spills, for two reasons. The first was mentioned by Mr Ortuondo Larrea: more than a year after the disaster we are far from succeeding in assessing the full extent of the consequences, not only because the vessel, carrying at least 15 000 tonnes, is still 3 000 metres deep in the Atlantic, but also because the oil is still reaching our coastlines. The second reason is that the rising number of increasingly independent reports calculate the damage caused at a figure that is never less than five billion euros. The maximum compensation limits cannot guarantee sufficient protection for potential victims of a large oil slick; this can only be achieved through unlimited liability, including collective damage. Setting a limit on damage is not rational and, above all, it sends a perverse signal to potential polluters. Given that only sovereign States can be parties to the Protocol, as has been mentioned here, the Commission proposes that we call upon the Member States to sign or ratify it – sign or ratify the protocol as soon as possible and by July 2004 if possible – in the words of Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado, whom I congratulate on his work as rapporteur. Perhaps, Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado, we will have to get down on our knees, because, from May until now, only two Member States have ratified it and a minimum of eight ratifications are needed in order for it to enter into force. I also think it will be necessary to develop the agreements to extend the circle of liability, which, as we have said many times, should cover all those involved in the transport chain. Madam President, I too congratulate Mr Gallagher on his excellent work. We have spent two years extensively discussing the Community fisheries market. It is now finally the turn of the whole House to adopt a stance through this report which was approved by a large majority in the Committee on Fisheries. Our market has a deficit of fishery products. Some 60% of the fishery products consumed in Europe are imported. The Community fisheries sector is extraordinarily active and competitive and plays an important role in maintaining economic and social cohesion in Europe. Our duty is therefore to ensure and guarantee its future. The European market is not a closed market. It is open in that products from GSP countries enter free of tariffs or at low tariffs. We make strict demands on our fishermen in terms of gear, conservation and handling of catches which are not compulsory for foreign fleets. For us as Socialists, the Community preference is therefore our commitment to the Community fisheries sector, to our people, fishermen, fishing industry workers and shipowners who hope to be able to continue their activities and keep their jobs. We should not therefore, as proposed by the Commission, replace the current and flexible tariff quota system with the total or partial suspension of tariff duties. We oppose this removal of tariffs because we believe that we do not need to protect, as Mrs Langenhagen said, but at least defend a competitive and modern sector which is still not prepared for total liberalisation. The same is true of many other sectors. Many questions continue to concern us. These include the cut in financing which excludes important growth sectors such as aquaculture, the lack of definition of the information to be received by the consumer, as specifically mentioned by Mrs Fraga Estévez, with regard to the distribution of areas proposed by the Commission, and the lack of other relevant data such as minimum sizes. As Socialists, our priorities include consumer protection. The defence of quality is one way of protecting these rights. We therefore want to encourage measures which emphasise quality fishery products and, at the same time, we ask for sustainable management of resources to ensure the future of fishing. Fishing must be allowed, but in accordance with the requirements of the market and the respectful management of the product. To sum up, we Socialists want to defend European producers, consumers and importers and we believe that with the report approved by the Committee on Fisheries, with the excellent work carried out by Mrs Fraga Estévez – who I congratulate – and with the agreement reached by the Council of Ministers, we can, in the main, be satisfied. –  Mr President, I thank Mr Fischler for having come before this House. He is here because, at the Conference of Presidents, the Group of the Party of European Socialists asked him to come. May I remind you, Commissioner, that in October 1999, a month before the agreement expired, you said here that you “would do everything in your power to find a solution” and that you “would get your feet wet”. Fourteen months later it is the Community fleet that is getting wet, but the water is up to its neck. But I am not one to blame you. I believe you have done what it was within your power to do, which really was very little. The problem for me is that there has not been a concerted effort by the various Commission services, and there has not been enough political pressure from the Council, and what is worse, in my opinion, is that there has been no clear thinking, skill or hard work in parallel by the government of the country most affected. Mr Varela, I believe Mr Prodi’s visit – which I think was very positive – rather than reassuring the sector has made it more worried, precisely because of the moment in the process when it took place. Such are the doubts and vacillations that the sector feels at the moment. The sector keeps on repeating that it does not want an agreement at just any price, and it is afraid that an agreement will be signed just to save face. The sector says that what the Moroccans are offering – the technical conditions that they want the Community fleet to submit to – is unacceptable, and there are a number of limitations on freezer trawlers and shrimp vessels that are unacceptable. I think the Moroccan authorities need a clear message from the Union. The Union would like to have fair cooperation with its partners, and now we all realise that we would have gained a lot if the Moroccan Government had responded in time to Community appeals. It is unacceptable that for 14 months the Moroccan Government repeated that it did not want an agreement, and now they are trying to blame you, Mr Fischler, for the failure to conclude one and for the negotiations having broken down. The result will be that the next Austrians – like yourself – or Swedes who negotiate in Rabat will think that what the Moroccans want is exactly the opposite of what they are thinking or saying. This whole absurd process, which has been going on now for 14 months, is not having any positive effects for one simple reason: because in certain sectors in the Union it is generating a rejection of the European Union itself. Here we spend days on end discussing the Union’s democratic deficit and good governance, and then, when we have a subject on our hands that directly affects more than 4 000 fishermen, we pretend not to see what is obvious and not to do what any government would do to stand up for such an important part of its productive fabric. There are some who say that President Prodi should have blocked not just fisheries cooperation but the whole MEDA II programme. With regard to the Poignant and Gallagher reports, which bring forward many points for debate on the forthcoming reform of the CFP, I think that if a number of amendments are approved we shall be able to achieve two balanced resolutions and correct some contradictions. But a balanced agreement – such as the one we should reach on the Green Paper – does not mean that it is a compromise between various extreme positions but rather a coherent report endorsing the future of the whole sector and the viability of fishing as an economic activity throughout the European Union. The balance that we socialists desire can only be achieved through a fisheries policy based on scientific criteria and adapted to the market, with the suppression of the political discrimination that still persists. The reform process must be participatory, in the words of Mr Poignant, whom I congratulate on his work, performed under difficult conditions. His report reveals many of the problems that we are going to have to discuss during the process of reforming the common fisheries policy. He has supplied many solutions, for instance the socio-economic aspect of fishing, the development of the social aspects of the CFP, and the updating of criteria that define regions as fishery-dependent. The Gallagher report is also interesting in that it refers to social aspects or regards agreements with third countries as a fundamental part of the CFP. We are requesting clear legal and scientific opinions on access restrictions. We believe that the reform of the CFP should not contain any discriminatory element whether political or based on nationality. Our amendments support keeping the current 6/12 mile zone. Lastly, I should like to congratulate Mr Varela – and also Mr Cunha – for the excellent report on the challenge of globalisation and the dangers that certain aspects of it pose for the Community fisheries sector. The international side of the CFP, our ever more necessary participation in multilateral organisations, is a challenge that still awaits us. This question is going to return and be debated many more times in this House. I congratulate Mr Varela on his political foresight, which could almost be called poetic. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to be feeling happy and optimistic today as a result of this legislative progress and to congratulate the Commissioner and my fellow Members, rapporteurs and non-rapporteurs, and even myself, but as a citizen from Galicia and given that these legislative proposals result – as we have heard here over and over again – from the  disaster, please allow me to make a different – although I hope complementary – point. It seems to me positive that this tragedy, which the Commission euphemistically describes as ‘an accident of great media interest’, should lead to significant legislative changes which lead to criminal prosecution in the event of illegal behaviour. But I am concerned that it may become generally accepted that by resolving the issue of illegal discharges we are resolving more than half of the problem of sea pollution with hydrocarbons, since the Commission states that the majority of that pollution is not due to accidents but to deliberate discharges. I also fear that the future may lead us to forget the present and this is a disaster which has not yet come to an end, as demonstrated by the new slick of fuel oil which is currently reaching the French coasts or the 14 000 tonnes of fuel oil still contained in the wreck awaiting a solution. I therefore say that concern for the future must not make us legislators forget the present. The present, ladies and gentlemen, means the three great questions which the citizens of my region are quite rightly still asking and which have not received a European response: compensation for the parties affected, environmental problems and the solution to the issue of the wreck. Ladies and gentlemen, I am happy that our disaster should lead to Community legislation moving forward, but I am also firmly convinced – and I hope to convince you – that Europe must have mechanisms for providing a European response, which does not yet exist, to these disasters, which are going to continue to occur. – Mr President, Commissioner, I was going to talk about the reports presented to Parliament and congratulate the rapporteurs, since they have all done an excellent job, but you chose to refer to the disaster that is destroying Galicia. For the first time, you have recognised that your staff can do something for my region. I hope that your task force has informed you that Galicia, has not only oysters, but also mussels and turbot, which make Europe the main world producer of these two species, thanks to modern, vigorous aquaculture companies, which have lost everything in the past twenty days. I hope they have told you that our coastline is incredibly rich in biodiversity and that this biodiversity is not Galician, Commissioner, but European. We are now rich in oil and the lack of action by our leaders has struck a glancing blow to what we love most, our way of living. The twenty thousand people who live from fishing in Galicia do not understand you very well. I have tried extremely hard to explain your proposals, trying to find common ground between you and my fellow countrymen. Since we have been told about this task force, who have not informed the Galician fishermen of any plans to visit, I would like them to present their conclusions to Parliament, here and now. We have listened to the Commissioner for Transport, who, in the face of the total lack of activity by the Spanish and Galician Governments, has drawn up practical proposals in order to table them at the Council, so that we might address this disaster and prevent a reoccurrence. We have also heard measures proposed by Commissioner Barnier, who has shown himself to be sensitive and receptive and has agreed to appear shortly before the Committee on Regional Policy in order to explain to us how the Solidarity Fund can be mobilised. Now it is your turn, Mr Fischler. Is it not time, Mr Fischler, for European fishermen in Galicia to hear more than just bad news from their Commissioner? So far, Galician fishermen associate your name – and this must be said – with the non-agreement with Morocco, fleet scrapping and a whole series of measures that might turn out to be good or they might not. The Socialist Group has made a huge effort and has even held a hearing to discuss CFP reform, has published a leaflet and listened to the sector but, to say the very least, the measures are not explained well enough. All this, Commissioner, and this is my criticism of you, translates into a loss of European credibility, because your fellow Austrian citizens, as well as the Germans, will still remember the European response to the disaster you suffered due to floods, and I include myself in this European response, Commissioner. The European citizens of Galicia would like to receive exactly the same treatment. I cannot believe that, after a month of disaster, all you can say to us is that you have sent a task force. I believe it is now up to you, Mr Fischler, to tell your fishermen – because they are your fishermen, not mine; they are mine, but also yours, you are responsible for them – what they can expect from their Commissioner. I am not going to suggest visits, although I do not think it would do any harm if you were to go to Galicia. Tour operators are starting to think, as a way out, of offering disaster tourism, as we in Galicia are very fond of black humour. However, Mr Fischler, do you not believe it is now time to explain, in this House, in Parliament, here and now, what the European fishermen, the Galicians, can expect from their Commissioner at this time of disaster? In Galicia we all know that we have two ears, one on either side of our heads, but what we did not know is that as well as two ears, we were going to have sixty thousand tonnes of oil on our beaches, and that today, in Parliament, we were going to be talking about what to restrict or deciding to prevent fishermen from continuing to deplete the sea’s natural resources. All this, Commissioner, is Galician black humour, but it is also tragi-comedy. That is all I have to say. – Mr President, I only wanted to ask the Commissioner a very brief question. I would firstly like to thank her, as a Galician, for the solidarity she has expressed in her speech today and I would like to ask her to present a report, as soon as possible, to the Transport Committee, on the application of the aid – in this case, clearly – she has just mentioned and, in particular, I would like to know, with regard to FIPOL, whether she could present us with a report on the timescales within which this insurance fund pays aid to the people affected. Mr President, nothing could be more true than what the representative of the Council has just pointed out: each Member State clearly has the power to decide the composition of its delegation at each Council meeting. Nevertheless, I believe that when, in these Council meetings, the national delegation does not include representatives of the regional governments which have exclusive competence, it creates distancing between the Community and the citizens, on the one hand, and its representatives on the other. Some people will call it distancing, others of us call it democratic deficit, especially when some communities do have that opportunity to be represented in the regions and others do not. In certain Member States, such as mine, the regions, the Autonomous Communities, are as much States as the central governments, as laid down in the Constitution. The President of my region, Galicia, is strongly in favour of this regional participation. Nevertheless, it is stated that it is the national government which is represented in relation to external policy, and I would ask: does the Council believe that internal Community policy decisions, in areas such as fishing, agricultural policy and consumer policy, fall within external or international policy or do you believe that they are internal Community issues? Mr President, some schemes, which are perhaps the product of the intellectual laziness of their authors, seek to present a picture of a Community fleet that preys on the resources of developing countries. Today’s report could serve to cast doubt upon this stereotype, because Gabon is a country with enormous resources, mainly oil, which is extracted by Western oil companies, and has a very similar per capita income to Poland’s, as well as an enviable annual inflation rate of 2%. It goes without saying that the Community boats of four Member States, which will be fishing under this agreement, will of course do so in compliance with the principles of responsible fishing and under the strict conditions imposed by the CFP. Many of us, however, are bound to wonder, as we do with regard to other agreements, whether this is a fisheries agreement or a development cooperation programme financed from the CFP, since, out of the total sum, 70% is earmarked for activities designed to develop the local fishing sector. This is why we are asking the Commission to direct some of this money to support measures to control and preserve stocks. Mr Maat, the Socialist Group will be voting against Amendment No 2 and I hope the Commission will do the same, because the fees that should be paid by shipowners whose boats fish under this agreement cannot be different to those paid under other agreements unless we take Greenland as an example, where the shipowners pay not a penny of fees. I wish to conclude by saying that those who are attempting to prevent Gabon from being able, like any other country, to sell part of its fishing rights at more than three times its market value are doing it no favours. By the same token, they should be against Gabon exporting its oil and its minerals to places such as the Netherlands, the United States, China or France, for example. –  Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr Martin on his own-initiative report, and on the quality of his work. He deserves special congratulations because he has succeeded in achieving unanimity within the Committee on Fisheries, and because of the standard of the hearing he so skilfully arranged. In particular, I would like to thank Mr Martin for the speed with which he incorporated into this report the request for  instrument to be resorted to when environmental disasters occur, regardless of whether they are due to natural causes. The current situation in Galicia following the accident involving the  is a case in point. The aquaculture sector has been hit particularly hard. Aquaculture is an emerging sector within Community fisheries. Consequently, it faces many challenges and uncertainties. It needs Community support to achieve excellence in production, to innovate, and to enable the ventures to become more competitive and to operate in an environmentally friendly manner. Support is also needed to allow these enterprises to promote themselves to consumers and to create jobs in areas where they are most needed. The Community must make progress on denominations of origin for high quality aquaculture products linked to specific localities. A special section on the promotion of this type of product should be added to the FIFG regulations. Amongst other places, members of the Committee on Fisheries visited Scotland and Andalusia. Such visits enabled us to gain first–hand knowledge of the problems of the sector and of its potential. We were in a position to appreciate the difficulties facing producers on site. We met with salmon producers in Scotland and in Ireland, and learnt about their problems. We marvelled at the skills displayed by sturgeon producers in Granada. We realised the significance of the experimental farming of sea bream and bass in former Roman salt pans in the province of Cadiz. We gained an understanding of the marketing problems too. Hence our belief that one of the Community’s priorities must be to identify new high quality species, and add them to the list of preferential species. The development of research at Community level, and the exchange of new practices related to these species and their farming must also be prioritised. The Socialist Group would welcome a directive providing for the regulation of organic aquaculture, and taking account of the crucial factors in this type of production. I have in mind the use of traditional methods, environmental factors, temperatures and the availability of water. Special funding should be made available to assist organic production and the promotion and sale of such products. We urge the Commission to take into account the fact that market saturation is not an issue in connection with the rearing of certain species such as turbot. This is because the farming of this species is a recent innovation, and is only just being developed. We therefore believe the Commission should continue to support the establishment of new facilities for farming such species, and that suitable provision should be made in the regulations governing the use of FIFG funds. The Commission had indeed supported some new facilities for turbot farming. Even so, given the rapid increase in demand and the relative growth of the industry we believe more assistance is called for. Aquaculture is a fisheries sector with great potential. It must receive Community support if it is to develop in an orderly fashion. – Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists is pleased that the Commission and the Senegalese Government have reached an agreement to extend the previous fisheries agreement with Senegal for eight months. We are grateful to the Government of Senegal for their willingness to allow our fleet to continue fishing until the parties have reached a new agreement. Fortunately, this time, the fleet has not been docked as it was five years ago. In the interim, the Commission and the Senegalese Government have reached a new fisheries agreement, which will be the subject of another debate. The catches the Community fleet can benefit from are the surplus resources which the local fleet cannot fish. Fishing relations between Senegal and the European Union are wholly satisfactory to both parties. We must not forget that fish products account for 30% of Senegal’s exports and these exports are mainly sent to Europe. Furthermore, many of the landings of the Community fleet take place in Senegalese ports. It would be wonderful if, in terms of what we are discussing here today (the coherence between the common fisheries policy and development cooperation policy we all want to see), the Commission could help the Senegalese authorities, and other developing countries, to manage their fisheries resources better, especially – as we have already said – in areas where there are young and spawning fish, which are in such need of it. I therefore congratulate Mr Gallagher on his wonderful and, above all, rapid report, as well as his excellent work. Mr� President, the regulation before us today is designed to strengthen the dialogue with the fishing industry and groups affected by the common fisheries policy. The Commission wants to ensure that it duly receives information on the needs of the industry. It also wants to promote the dissemination to this industry of the Community regulations and decisions adopted as part of the common fisheries policy. Naturally, the Committee on Fisheries supports this proposal for a regulation. In order to make proposals and carry out its responsibilities, the European Commission needs to be informed of the current state of affairs within the industry through dialogue with those involved. This proposal for a regulation has been preceded by the reform of the Advisory Committee on Fisheries and Aquaculture, the consultation body created in 1971 and involving all the professional sectors. Briefly, this reform has updated this body by including other parties which have been playing an increasingly prominent part in recent years in the management of the rational exploitation of marine resources, such as non-governmental organisations devoted to development, environmental groups, consumers and also scientists. This reform has also involved a more prominent role being granted to the sectors hitherto underrepresented, such as the aquaculture sector and those engaged in marketing. The number of members of the plenary committee has also been reduced and specialist working groups have been established. The essence of this reform of the Advisory Committee is the priority given to organisations which are most representative at Community level, with the aim of ensuring that the committee is not merely a spokesperson for national interests. The Committee on Fisheries of this House, and myself in particular as rapporteur, have been highly critical of the fact that the Commission did not consult us on the reform of this committee. This means that we now have to be content with giving an opinion on this proposal for a regulation which I would venture to qualify as being of minor importance. With regard to its objectives and mechanisms and the legislative provisions applying to the industry, we fully support the Commission proposal to promote the dissemination of information on the common fisheries policy. We would be delighted if the Commission finally decided to make an effort to improve information. The Commissioner himself, when he last appeared before the committee, acknowledged that this was absolutely essential. Mr� Fischler said that we have a marketing problem and that the information on, and defence of, our model must be improved. This involves both information provided to the fishing industry, which, in many cases, lacks awareness or understanding of its own situation, and information provided by the industry. As a member of the Committee on Fisheries, I have frequently been surprised by this deep lack of understanding, among the general public, of a common fisheries policy which is of enormous importance to many Member States and to the EU as a whole. With regard to the information provided to the fishing industry, we would ask the Commission to take note of the circumstances in which many fishermen are living. Not everyone has access to the new technologies which is why information campaigns must use all the media available to us, including the most traditional. In this respect, I must highlight the work of the written press, which is increasingly concerned about the future of fishing in Europe, and also that of radio and television which are democratic media available to everyone. To conclude, I must draw the Commission’s attention to the representative nature of the organisations within the Advisory Committee. Dialogue between the Commission and those involved in the industry is essential. Yet if this dialogue is to be fruitful, those involved must be genuinely representative of the various sectors affected by the common fisheries policy. However, neither the Commission proposal nor the rules governing the Advisory Committee contain mechanisms to ensure that this is the case. Nevertheless, in such a fragmented industry, which is scattered over wide areas and which has little history of forming associations, it is difficult to ensure that the Commission’s partners in the dialogue at Community level are reliable representatives of the sector concerned. With a view to enhancing their representativeness, it would perhaps be desirable for the Commission to take initiatives to boost the membership of existing trade organisations as an accompanying measure alongside those it is already undertaking. The representatives of the industry chosen as partners for the dialogue with the Commission, namely the members of the Advisory Committee, must represent the common interest. Mr President, today we in this Parliament have adopted a resolution on the Union's role in the prevention of conflicts in Africa, and in particular, in the application of the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement in Ivory Coast. In this resolution the European Parliament calls on all the conflicting parties to scrupulously apply the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement. The European Union has a responsibility in terms of preventing conflicts, and its various policies aimed at promoting commercial relations between Europe and developing countries represent a form of preventing this type of conflict. Commercial and human relations bring peoples closer together, contribute to their development and the development of their different economic sectors. My group therefore supports the fisheries agreement, because commercial agreements and relations between peoples promote peace and, in the case of fisheries agreements, also the development of the fisheries sector in the developing countries. We therefore support this report by Mr Stevenson in favour of a one-year extension of the current protocol, with the amendments approved by the Committee on Fisheries. Ivory Coast is a country at civil war which we must help so that it can achieve peace and economic progress. We Socialists therefore believe that the message we are sending through the extension of this fisheries agreement is a positive one. The war is not a reason to put an end to a fisheries agreement. If we did that it would be absurd and would increase the suffering of that country, and the same thinking would lead us to suspend imports of its products, such as coffee, cocoa or palm oil and, also, to suspend emerging oil operations and not to buy any more of its diamonds, its manganese, its iron, its cobalt, bauxite or copper. Why is there this insistence on putting an end to commercial fisheries agreements which bring the European Union closer to the developing countries and then to promote exports from those countries of agricultural products, for example, and also minerals, oil or gas? Despite the war, the execution of the quotas allocated by the agreement, as in the case of tuna, has been good, and the level of catches of demersal species is improving. We in the Socialist Group believe that this agreement is of great benefit to the port of Abidjan, which is the largest tuna-fishing base in West Africa, where catches are the raw material for a large local processing industry which is a key element in Ivory Coast’s development. I believe that this is a good agreement illustrating how, in the case of a country which is faced with serious difficulties, fisheries agreements can operate well for both parties, the European Union and the developing country which is signing it with us. . –  Madam President, as rapporteur of this report I would like to make two points: firstly, that this very amendment tabled orally by my fellow Member Mr Wynn has been rejected at the vote by the Committee on Fisheries on the day my own report was voted upon. The second is that I do not oppose this amendment being tabled and it should be this House that decides upon its content. –  Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists supports both this Commission proposal and the report by Mr Vatanen, who, having already demonstrated his adventures as a driver on roads throughout the world, now amazes us with his knowledge of a subject as difficult as maritime transport and the certificates that have to be completed when ships arrive at, or depart from, our ports. Very gradually, people like ourselves, here, today, in this House, Mr Vatanen, myself, and all of you, are building a common Europe. We are now eighteen, it is true, years behind with regard to 1 January 1983, which already seems like such a long time ago, when the Community institutions and the then ten Member States approved the Single European Act. The standardisation of reporting formalities will, without a doubt, contribute to an improvement in maritime transport between ports situated in Member States, encouraging the promotion of short sea shipping. By encouraging the transportation of goods by sea we will free up, to a certain extent, the amount of heavy traffic on our already saturated roads. We can only regret that this proposal, as noted by Mr Vatanen in his explanatory statement, does not cover dangerous goods. We ask the Commission not to limit this standardisation of reporting formalities to the Community. The Community should press for this type of information to be common to the whole international community, promoting the International Maritime Organisation's Convention on the Facilitation of Maritime Traffic. We would also invite those Member States who have not done so, to ratify this Convention, although the Commission proposal does not oblige them to do so. I would like to finish by congratulating Mr Vatanen on his excellent work. –  Mr President, today the Commission is presenting a point of extraordinary political importance, as demonstrated by the tremendous controversy between the Commission and the fisheries sector. The fishermen are complaining that the Commission has not included their opinions in its proposal for a reform, nor has it included the opinions of Parliament on this matter, given in January this year. What is more, this proposal was adopted yesterday by the members of the Commission by simple majority in the absence of four Commissioners, and with no guarantee that it has the necessary qualified majority in the Council. The Commission is acting outside the sector. A French shipowner told me less than ten minutes ago that the Commission hears but does not listen. Any reform of a basic policy such as fisheries must, in order to be credible, ensure the survival of the sector and an improvement in the living and working conditions of those concerned. The Commission proposals are far from seeking a balance between conservation of stocks, the efficiency of the fleet, maintaining jobs and economic activity in fishing regions. The Commission does take account of the well-intentioned concerns of environmentalist groups, but puts them before those of the fishing world itself and shamelessly sacrifices basic principles of the European Union, such as economic and social cohesion, in regions that are heavily dependent on fishing, all of which are Objective 1 regions. We, as socialists, call for the sustainable management of stocks, but we believe that this can only take place if the fishermen are involved. With this plan, stocks will have been replenished within ten years so that Europeans can look at them in a display case, and we shall all be eating imported fish. The twenty-eight thousand jobs that you are already saying will be lost are only the tip of the iceberg. Fishing generates many more jobs, directly and indirectly, which are not counted in the document presented by the Commissioner. His proposal goes beyond fishing. It concerns a neoliberal reform to scrap boats, which clears the way for a CFP that is neither Community-minded, as it turns its back on European solidarity and increases the North-South divide, nor is it political, as the Commission refuses to exercise its powers, and nor does it have the interests of fisheries at heart as it condemns the sector it is meant to protect, and in particular coastal fishermen, to extinction. My group, Commissioner, will therefore work in Parliament and the Committee on Fisheries as of today, the day on which we have seen the texts, together with the sector, together with the other groups represented in Parliament, listening to anyone who wants to talk to us to work towards a reform that is gradual, that is established by consensus and that is properly financed, because we believe that a sector of the vital strategic importance of fishing in the European Union cannot be condemned to die out. Mr President, Mr Katiforis’s report has the virtue of having brought life, debate and controversy to a communication in which the European Commission limits itself to listing a series of good intentions, although recognising its inability to put these into practice. Mr Katiforis has certainly not lacked the courage to set out the measures which, in his opinion, could help to improve and conserve the natural resources of the sea. Yet I must say that I disagree with many of his proposals because I am with those who believe that it is not just resources which are important in the fisheries sector but also the human beings who have been carrying out this activity for centuries. I agree with the rapporteur that the European fisheries and environmental policies should be better coordinated. However, what we are basically missing is the political courage and determination of the Commission and the Member States to take decisions and apply the current regulations. Maritime transport, employment and energy should be integrated together with fisheries and the environment. As for the Structural Funds, certain examples could be mentioned but I will leave this for another day. The European Parliament is aware of the limited resources and the need for responsible fisheries. The Commission and Member States should be meticulous in respecting the TACs and the quotas fixed in accordance with objective scientific criteria. The same yardstick should be used for everyone. As Mr Katiforis says, discards are a waste of resources which we cannot accept. Twenty million tonnes of unwanted catches are being thrown back. The fleet must therefore use increasingly selective fishing gear. This House has already indicated its opposition to driftnets and yet it is evident that certain countries are not only not respecting the undertaking to eliminate these nets but are increasing the number of vessels using these or simply not providing data given the passiveness of the national and Community authorities. We socialists consider that to defend the common fisheries policy is to defend a regulated and controlled fisheries sector. It is therefore essential that the Commission launches an information campaign on the CFP with this message. Without a common fisheries policy there can only be lack of control, damage to the environment and an unsustainable economic activity. – Mr President, I am going to comment on paragraph 3 of this motion for a resolution and, specifically, on the species with the scientific name of , which is known as the Patagonian or Antarctic toothfish. The  is of great commercial value (it is known as ‘black gold’) and its balance is very delicate. The Committee on Fisheries, of which I am a member, has produced three reports on this resource and I am rapporteur for the one which relates to the creation of a system for documenting catches. Today I would like to argue to the House that it should not be included on the CITES list, for the following reasons: we cannot forget that there is already an international organisation – the Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources, which from now on I will refer to by its initials, CAMELAR – which, for twenty years, has been successfully dealing with the preservation of this and other species in the Antarctic Ocean. The Community is a contracting party to this Convention. The proposal to include  in the CITES Convention did not come from us but from Australia. Neither we nor – as far as I know – the Commission oppose this; we simply believe that it would be more useful for CAMELAR itself to take this decision at its annual assembly, which is taking place this week and next week in Chile, and in which the European Parliament will be represented by Mr Stevenson, the chairman of the Committee on Fisheries. Following tough negotiations, CAMELAR has now incorporated Canada and Mauritius with the status of associate members. Together with the United States, Canada is the main commercial destination of the species  and Mauritius, a significant place of transit. Their entry into CAMELAR gives this international organisation control of 98% of the world trade in . For us, CITES would be useful as a complement to CAMELAR. But we must be cautious, because – if our decision-making moves faster than the natural course of events – we could unintentionally cause unwanted contrary effects, weakening an organisation that, during its long life, has done a great amount of good work with regard to the Antarctic marine environment, which is extremely delicate. We must concentrate our efforts, not disperse them, and we must increase our presence in multilateral fisheries organisations, which is the only way to respond to the challenges that the preservation of fish species confront us with on a world scale. – Mr Commissioner, I am satisfied with your reply, but I would like to add something else. The sea is a difficult world, and the Community fleet which fishes in international Atlantic waters experiences the interference of controllers and patrols from coastal countries which give the impression that, behind the harassment they sometimes suffer, there is one sole intention; to expel them from those fishing grounds. The Commissioner knows, as I do, that the current situation in the NAFO is not, fortunately, what it was five years ago after the seizure of the . The European Commission – like the fishing sector itself – has made significant efforts to iron out our differences. However, there are still outstanding questions, such as the extraterritorial clauses, which allow the Canadian Government to carry out inspections, controls and seizures beyond their national waters, in open sea, which is incompatible with international provisions and which, all too frequently, involves the arbitrary application of controls within the framework of the NAFO. For all these reasons, I would like to ask the Commissioner how the European Commission intends to defend the right of the Community fleet to fish freely in these waters, albeit within the existing rules. – Mr President, I would like to thank my Socialist colleagues, mainly in the committees on transport and the environment, who have not forgotten that this disaster also affects the fishing industry. Because, as well as the irreparable damage to the environment, the damage to the ecosystem and losses in the tourist industry, the oil slick dealt a huge blow to the fishing industry, to the conservation of marine resources, and the damaged coast lines will take years to recover. It is no accident, Commissioner, that the affected areas are always those European regions which are least developed, those which eke out a meagre existence from tourism and fishing and which, in the majority of cases, do not have any other resources. These are the same areas, Commissioner, which already have to put up with the disrespectful activities of certain shipowners who empty the bilges of their vessels off their coasts, without any control whatsoever. I come from a region, Galicia, which has suffered similar accidents in the past. Brittany and Galicia, two European ‘Lands Ends’, fall constant prey to the irresponsibility of those who prefer not to comply with safety regulations and transport crude oil in vessels which in themselves constitute potential oil slicks. I therefore believe that it is necessary to act in two ways. On the one hand, by asking the Commission, within the scope of aid to the fishing industry, to implement special measures to compensate for the effects of this catastrophe on the industry in the areas affected, and also by asking them to demand, of international bodies and of themselves, tight controls on ships which sail under flags of convenience. In this regard, the current process of negotiations on Malta’s accession to the European Union must be used to ensure that this country rigorously monitors the oil tankers which sail under its flag. On the other hand, prevention is essential. Portugal is a country which has clearly demonstrated its sensitivity to issues relating to the sea. I would ask the Portuguese Presidency to study the possibility of implementing a complete strategy for the prevention of maritime accidents at European level, using all the means at our disposal – technological, structural and socio-economic – to prevent a disaster such as this from happening again in the future. Lastly, Mr President, I would like to highlight the work carried out by the volunteers and local authorities, who reminded me of old times when, as the then Mayoress, I lived through similar situations. We must thank those who, while defenceless and lacking in resources, have battled courageously against the grave effects that this disaster has had on coastal regions, the marine ecosystem and European fishing stocks. – Mr President, within the framework of the reform of the CFP which the Commission has decided to present to us in small doses, today we are debating the reports on the ‘guideline’ document and the protection of the environment. I would like to congratulate Mr Souchet on his excellent work because the environment is a fundamental aspect of the CFP, and fishing is the sector most affected by the attacks on the marine environment, as highlighted by the oil slick that is currently threatening the coasts of my region, Galicia. We know little about the sea and the fragile situation of the resources cannot be explained entirely by over-fishing, as Mr Souchet has rightly said and as the oil slick caused off the coasts of Galicia by the oil tanker dramatically demonstrates. I would like to believe that the fishermen and shellfishermen of my region are not going to face this terrible situation alone, but that Europe is going to show solidarity with them and that the European Commission will fully support them. And I would like to say to the Commission that, since it presented these proposals in May, it has received sufficient messages from this Parliament, from the Council and from the sector to redirect this reform in a different way, bearing in mind that it will always have to be gradual, be provided with sufficient resources and be agreed with the sector, with the Member States and with this House. I believe that the Commission is hearing this message. It is a shame that in May, on presenting its proposals for the reform of the CFP, the Commission should have ignored the resolution approved by this Parliament in January on the Green Paper, in which this House urged it to present a proposal for reform to create a sustainable and more Community-focused CFP, in opposition to attempts at renationalisation; a CFP that is fairer, eliminating the discrimination against certain fleets, showing more solidarity and supporting regions dependent on fishing, basically by means of Community co-funding of the restructuring of the fleet. – Mr President, we are debating a new Commission proposal which contains supplementary measures for the recovery of stocks of cod and hake, and which the Socialist Group supports with some reservations, stemming from the scepticism with which the people involved have received it and the lack of agreement amongst the experts. In fact, there is no consensus amongst scientists on the effectiveness of these measures, and this means that, while we share the objectives, we nevertheless doubt their effectiveness. The opinion of the Scientific Committee, for example, says that a more drawn-out recovery plan which involves less sacrifice for the fleet is a possibility. Hake and cod are two highly valued species on the Community market, resources of which have been drastically reduced as a result of over-fishing. But not only by over-fishing of these two species, but also of other associated species, which are part of the food chain and which have reduced sources of food for hake and cod, thereby affecting the conservation of those stocks. These preservation measures, which are being presented to us today, imply a forced reduction of the fleet’s activity and taking a part of it out of service, and the Community is therefore obliged to maintain an aid policy which is able to alleviate these negative effects. . – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you must all be aware that a year ago, at the suggestion of the Socialist Group, the European Parliament decided to prepare an own-initiative report on the external impact of the common fisheries policy. The report was to cover the European Union’s involvement in RFOs and also in international agreements on fisheries. In the intervening time and after the report was adopted in committee, the communication from the European Commission on the same subject was presented, in the context of reform of the CFP. Clearly, the Committee on Fisheries will need to draw up a second report. It is my belief that such a report will be in line with the resolution adopted here today. The Committee on Fisheries trusts that this report will serve to focus the attention of the House on issues related to fisheries. We hope that it will lead to a call for closer links and improved cooperation between the external dimension of the CFP and other Community policies. I am thinking here about policies on trade, on development aid and on foreign policy. Indeed, when the relevant Directorate-General negotiates within multilateral organisations, or when it negotiates international agreements on fisheries, it does not appear to enjoy the support of the world’s largest trading and economic power. Conversely, when the European Union negotiates association agreements or trading agreements, or when it is involved in decision-making within the WTO, insufficient account is taken of the interests of fisheries. It is abundantly clear that our own market in fish and similar products is supplied thanks to the activities of the Community’s fleet in non-Community fishing grounds. As you must know, there is a shortage of such products on our market. In addition, the presence of our fleet helps to bolster activity in areas dependent on fishing. These areas are generally underdeveloped and no other economic activity is viable there. Pursuant to the Council of Ministers’ Resolution of 3 November 1976, the European Union supports such activity. This resolution also covers additional requirements consequent on other fundamental pillars of the European Union. The European Union undoubtedly has a very competitive fleet, notably the tuna, longline and trawl fleets. These operate outside Community waters and are deemed the most advanced in the world. They also pioneer the search for new fishing grounds and species. As a whole, the Community fleet has the technical capacity and processing and sales facilities to allow it to supply a market of 350 million consumers. Unlike their competitors at global level, European fishermen are no pirates. They do not fish illegally, they do not destroy local fisheries and they do not engage in social dumping. Their activities are in fact tightly controlled by the European Union through the Member States and the range of control mechanisms in place. European fishermen also comply with the requirements of fishing agreements, the national regulations of coastal states and the regulations of the relevant RFOs. Approximately 3 000 European vessels fish on the high seas or in the exclusive economic zones of other states. Of these, 2 100 operate to the north of the Union and some 900 to the south. This represents 41 000 jobs for the Union. Eighty-three per cent of these come under the Southern Agreements. The yearly catch amounts to 2.7 million tonnes, which represents 40% of the annual catch by the Community’s fleet. You may be surprised to learn that the total value of the catch is put at EUR 614 billion. This sum is multiplied further if account is taken of the processing industry and of economic activity in related sectors such as shipbuilding and marine engineering. The financial cost of the CFP’s external dimension is very small. It was EUR 276 million in 2000. This equalled 28% of the total CFP budget. There is ample proof of the profitability of Community intervention in favour of this fleet. For every euro we invest as a Community in this fishery we get three back in business terms. To reiterate my earlier statement, the European Union does have the economic, legal, legislative and political potential to take the lead in responsible fishing beyond the Union and promote the principles involved. Nonetheless, those concerned feel they do not receive adequate support from the Union. The underlying reason may be that the funds allocated to these activities by the European Commission are insufficient. A political strategy is lacking too. It is also unfortunate that this external dimension of the CFP is not properly covered by the CFSP and does not come within the general scope of the international trading relations of the fisheries Union. The European Parliament is on record as having repeatedly criticised this state of affairs. The House has urged the Commission to remedy the situation. In particular, it has recommended that the Directorate-General adjust its organisational chart to enable it to fulfil its role adequately. The sea is the neglected half of our planet, ladies and gentlemen. However, to date it has not yet been proven that sustainable management of ocean fisheries is anything but possible. What is needed is an approach focused on ecosystems and involving the reinforcement not only of scientific research but also of monitoring and surveillance measures. By-catch must be reduced too and a determined effort made to combat illegal fishing. At the same time, a legal framework for protected areas must be developed. In addition, a broader view should be taken of the reasons for the depletion of resources. Fishing is not entirely to blame. Spillage from oil tankers also plays a part. We have the consequences of the  disaster very much in the forefront of our minds at present. The  is but one example of a tanker going down in our richest and most biodiverse coastal waters. Then there is the discharge from vessels cleaning their tanks out at sea with impunity. No effective action has yet been taken against them. Global climate change is another contributory factor. Resources are also affected by the extensive use of substances such as fertilisers or pesticides in agriculture. These inevitably end up in the sea. It remains for me to highlight the social aspects of this type of fishing. We believe all fishermen should be guaranteed fundamental labour rights. In our view, it is for the Union to take appropriate action, such as the inclusion of a social clause in international agreements. Another approach would be for socio–economic partners to promote social dialogue, so that all fishermen benefit from the protection of their rights, and to ensure that the European social model becomes a permanent feature of the fishing industry. – Mr President, in my view, the common fisheries policy is essentially a collection of regulations with which all parties must comply. Let us imagine a chess match in which a player moves his bishops diagonally – as the rules dictate – but uses his knights as if they were rooks and in which, furthermore, he tries to carry on playing after he has suffered a checkmate. Let us imagine, also, that the match referee is looking in the other direction. That seems to me to be basically what the last Commission did. We trust that the current Commission will fulfil its mission as a guardian of the Treaties and that it does not ‘let so many goals in’. The preservation of fishing resources depends, rightly, on respect for the agreements on TACs and quotas, temporary fishing bans and commitments made by Member States on the reduction of their fleets, and, as such, if, from this delicate house of cards which we are all building, someone were to remove a card, the whole construction would collapse. Compliance with the MAGPs is an essential requirement if we are to safeguard the balance between resources and fleet capacity. The degree of compliance amongst the Member States with their obligations, laid down in the MAGPs, varies enormously, as this report demonstrates. This report indicates countries which, through great economic and social effort, and with enormous effort on the part of their fishing fleets and their people, have complied fully. This is recognised by the Commission and Mr Cunha in his report. Mr Cunha, who I congratulate on his excellent report, also indicates the degree to which some Member States do not comply and the clear lack of will of certain other countries who, furthermore, refuse to provide reliable data. As the rapporteur has explained so well, it is incredible that the Commission has shown so much tolerance towards a country which, for so many years, has failed to provide reliable information on the situation of its fleet. This has probably been possible as the result of the political weakness of the previous Commission. I would also like to refer to other reasons which are the responsibility of the Commission and the Member States, because it is necessary, in this new stage, for them both to make an effort to harmonise the reference criteria in force for measuring the tonnage and power of vessels. This is the only way we can prevent some countries from out-manoeuvring the regulations, which is what some are currently doing. The Commission will also – as Mr Cunha says in his report – have to be stricter with regard to the segmentation criteria of the different national fleets, improve the definition of geographical areas and use its power to impose penalties, although of a temporary nature, to oblige States to fulfil their obligations with regard to reducing fleet sizes. We socialists demand that the Commission make a commitment, here in this Parliament, to put an end, not only to its tolerance of non-compliance with the MAGPs, but also to the lack of transparency of certain States whose attitude simply prejudices those other countries who are eager to fulfil all the objectives laid down in the MAGPs. In the exercise of its competences, the Commission must protect the Community interest. – Madam President, Mrs Figueiredo, the draftsperson of the opinion, has clearly communicated to the Committee on Budgets and to this House the concerns of the Committee on Fisheries in relation to this draft budget for 2003. You will be aware that the whole of the CFP represents for European Union budgetary expenditure less than the smallest of the agricultural common organisations of the market; the Union budget intended for fisheries is smaller than that for cotton, for example. I would like to remind the House of the commitment made by the Council and Parliament to provide the EUR 27 million corresponding to this financial year for the restructuring of the fleet that fished in Morocco. The people concerned, who are fishermen and shipowners, hope that this commitment will be met, regardless of the form of budgetary or accounting engineering adopted. Although there are no resources to increase the lines for social dialogue and coastal fishing as we would have liked, the Commission should take account of Parliament’s desire for these two issues to receive more support. . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are going to vote on today is clearly not the Miguélez report. For obvious reasons: the Committee on Fisheries, by accepting the majority of the amendments to my report, and myself, by reaching a compromise on certain points with some of the Members presenting amendments, have made significant modifications to the initial text. This text is, therefore, a synthesis of the various positions held in this Parliament in relation to the reform of the CFP, and when it comes to evaluating it there will be certain people who consider that the glass is half full and others that the glass is half empty. In any event, I believe that the report contains a sufficient number of positive elements in comparison with the current CFP for me, as rapporteur, to request that this House vote in favour of it. I must say that in the Committee on Fisheries there has been more agreement on the shortcomings of the current CFP than on identifying concrete proposals for its reform. Nevertheless, I believe that it contains sufficient positive elements to lay the foundations for a future CFP. The greatest difficulty has been in reconciling the various interests: those of the companies, in order to allow them to be economically viable, those of the preservation of resources and social and economic measures which are able to defend an activity largely based in the least developed regions, outermost regions and Objective 1 regions. The European Commission should be able to show sufficient political intelligence to reconcile these three aspects, above all because the failure of any one of them would lead to the failure of the other two. We are concerned about the existing contradiction between the highly critical analysis carried out by the Commission of the current CFP, which is shared by the European Parliament, and the subsequent proposals for reform, presented in the Green Paper, which are hardly innovative. The Green Paper opts for little change, or ‘more of the same’, which pleases nobody. The report I am presenting is clear when it comes to defining the fundamental objective of the common fisheries policy: balancing the viability of a strategic European Union economic sector – which contributes to our food supply and is vital for employment and the economic and social cohesion of the outermost regions of the Union – with the maintenance of sustainable marine eco-systems. With regard to the conservation and management of resources, the Committee on Fisheries asks for TACs to be set by means of rational and transparent measures, incorporating scientific opinions and data from the sector’s professionals, especially since they will be set on a multiannual and multi-species basis. It asks for an end to the incoherences between the current CFP and the single market, demanding that areas of restricted fishing, either closed seasons, boxes or restricted access, be based on scientific criteria for the protection of resources. In fact, as the report indicates, the current CFP entails a derogation from the principle of equal access and, in the absence of a Council decision, this derogation will end on 31 December 2002. The CFP is obliged to respect the fundamental principles contained in the Treaty, including, ladies and gentlemen, the principle of equal treatment. Relative stability requires a new analysis, as the report states, of the communities which are highly dependent on fishing, which considers the evolution in the Community over the last 25 years. This analysis is essential to the review of the CFP. The Committee on Fisheries has also rejected the extension of the exclusive access zone beyond the current range of 6-12 miles. With regard to the fleet, the report makes its point clearly by pointing out that the Multiannual Guidance Programmes (MAGPs) have not produced the desired results, largely as a result of the lack of will of certain Member States to implement them correctly. The reduction of the fleet is a socio-economic sacrifice which, in order to be understood and accepted by the fisheries sector, must be carried out in a balanced fashion in all Member States and also receive sufficient Community financial support. The Community must continue to contribute to the modernisation of the fleet, by means of structural measures, strengthening the aspects relating to safety and living conditions on board, without this involving any increase in fishing effort. It is therefore necessary to continue with the structural aid. With regard to inspection and control, we recognise that the operation of monitoring and control mechanisms is unsatisfactory. We believe that all the efforts aimed at conserving resources are destined for failure if we do not have a harmonised European system with a high degree of conformity within the sector. It is necessary to extend the competences of the Community inspectors and establish a single penalty system. With regard to international relations, the Community must deal with them decisively, relating them to the European Union’s foreign policy. From the point of view of fisheries, the Union’s international relations must be seen from a primarily commercial point of view, with a view to achieving fishing opportunities for our fleet. The fisheries agreements constitute and will continue to constitute an essential element of the new CFP. To this end, it is necessary to create a uniform strategy in the reaching of international agreements, in such a way that the professionals are subject to the same conditions in terms of fishing opportunities, the payment of charges, licences and the using of surplus quotas. The European Union’s commercial relations and policy on markets must combine the respect for the principle of Community preference with a reduction in tariffs together with the establishment of a list of sensitive products, giving the processing industry access to the supply of raw materials. As for the social aspects, they were completely absent from the Green Paper. We ask the Commission to fully incorporate these economic and social measures, which are necessary in order to ensure the economic and social cohesion of the regions dependent on fishing. The fisheries sector is characterised by tough working conditions and a lack of collective agreements, which makes it necessary to increase social dialogue. To end, within the time allotted to me by my group, I would like to express my regret at the elements that have been lost during these long months of parliamentary negotiation, in particular two points: a Community fleet which can operate under a single flag and a single body of Community inspectors. I regret that the European Parliament, on this occasion, is not the innovative and pioneering institution which all we Members wish it to be. In terms of fisheries we are decades behind in relation to the European project, but just as we now have euros in our pockets and our skies are watched over by Eurocontrol, sooner or later the European flag will fly on our fishing vessels. . Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for the words he has addressed to us, which open up more interesting perspectives for the future of relations between the European Union and Latin America. Perhaps for this very reason it may be interesting to relate a brief history of this relationship over recent years. Since being all but absent from the agenda during the seventies, it was enhanced during the following decade, coinciding with the disappearance of the dictatorships and the spread of democracy. Thus the first generation agreements were born and the economic contributions which improved cooperation were increased. In the following decade – the nineties – the third generation agreements were born with the inclusion of conditionality clauses and support and promotion for peace processes. These more committed policies gave the European Union great visibility, ending the century with the negotiation of an association agreement with Mexico, which was a milestone in the European Union's policy. All of this led to the expectation that we would continue along this path. Nevertheless, during the first half of this decade association has only been extended to Chile. The ambition for a new strategy appears to be paralysed and strangely this coincides with the enlargement of the Union. Meanwhile, the United States is extending and continuing bilateral negotiations aimed at consolidating its position in the region – which, furthermore, is nothing new – with the same countries from which the European Union is demanding the signature of a hypothetical association agreement as a prior condition for regional integration. Two very different approaches. In a few months’ time, the Heads of State or Government of the subcontinent and the European Union will meet in Mexico. This summit will be a great opportunity as the Commissioner has stated. The idea of this meeting is magnificent, provided that it produces more than a list of good intentions. Perhaps the Commissioner could give us more details so that we are better aware of the agenda. As has already been said, the city of Puebla has recently been the venue for the meeting between European Members of Parliament and the Parliaments of Latin American political integration. The debate gave rise to a series of agreements and objectives which are expressed in the final document and which can be summed up as greater bi-regional cooperation, greater integration, strengthening of parliamentary dialogue and the agenda for association. The agreements we are analysing today are undoubtedly more ambitious than those signed in 1993. Let us trust that they enter into force within more reasonable timescales. I would personally like to be optimistic and for these agreements to be a valid instrument for moving forward with association. It is the case that current commercial exchanges are very modest – and this is reflected in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy’s text – even with the facilities provided by the system of generalised preferences and, furthermore, these exports, which are not sufficiently diversified, are constantly subjected to reductions in international market prices. An association, however, is rather more than a commercial agreement, the implementation of an economic policy or a development cooperation project: at times like this, the era we are living in, in which nothing is immune to globalisation – including terrorism – association agreements must also be seen as instruments for collective security. We are talking about countries with difficulties, with levels of poverty which are so high that that poverty may come to threaten internal peace, but which, at the same time, have extraordinary potential, which are culturally close to us and which see us as a model of opportunity. Finally, Mr President, given that the texts of the agreements cannot be modified, this debate should at least serve to ensure that Parliament's opinion is taken into account if it is finally decided to take a more committed step and, as has been done with the southern Mediterranean countries, to make progress on association with the Andean countries, the Central American countries and – we should not forget – the countries of Mercosur. – Mr President, in order to assess the results of the Madrid Summit we must take good account of the context in which this meeting has taken place, a context of great uncertainty and fragility. Therefore, in order to make a balanced assessment, we must understand that in the time that has passed between Río and Madrid not all the hopes raised at the Río Summit have been fulfilled. Developments, in particular economic developments, have lessened expectations and I therefore believe that all the participants and observers at the summit can be moderately satisfied with the fact that the summit has taken place within a context of general agreements, of common denominators, and by the fact that we have been able to present an assessment of relations between the European Union and the Latin American and Caribbean countries which contains concrete achievements, association agreements with Mexico and with Chile, the maintenance of the prospect and the will for an association agreement with Mercosur and also the maintenance of a positive outlook in relation to the partnership with the Andean countries and the countries of Central America. I warned the Council and the Commission during the debate prior to the Madrid meeting of the foreseeable risk that these countries might be disappointed. I am pleased to acknowledge today that this risk has been successfully prevented, the opening up of a prospect for agreements with the two sub-regions has been maintained, and I hope that this is not a rush forward but a genuinely serious and consistent commitment, because nothing could be worse in this disturbed context than raising expectations and perspectives which are not then met. Summits are only worth so much. The important thing is to maintain political momentum and, as Mr Salafranca said a few moments ago, to maintain commitments which must not only be political commitments but practical commitments which are reflected in the budget. If this is the case, things will move forward. If not, that person who said at the Madrid Summit that ‘we go from summit to summit while our peoples go from abyss to abyss’ will unfortunately be proved right. –  Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on 3 July, we asked the Council for immediate action to address the highly worrying situation of a large group of opponents of Mr Obiang’s regime in Equatorial Guinea. At that time we asked for an appeal to be made, for pressure to be exerted. Two days later, on 5 July, to be precise, one of those convicted in the judgment that incarcerated dozens of opponents in Black Beach, Juan Ondó Nguema, died as a result of the maltreatment he suffered, and due to water and sleep deprivation during the last days of his life. Mr President, I know that the world is often cruel and that, of course, neither Europe nor the Council can solve all of its problems or shoulder all of its tragedies. This, however, was a very specific, localised problem. A few days ago, another opponent died, and we ask again, insistently, Mr President, that the Council please do something immediately to solve this problem and remove the threat hanging over a few, very specific people. The debate is closed. The vote will take place during the May part-session. – Mr President, tomorrow and the following day the Euro-Mediterranean Conference is to be held in Marseilles, attended by all the countries that signed the Barcelona Declaration, and I think that we can congratulate ourselves on this. It will be a success that will show that the Barcelona process, which began on the back of the Oslo agreements, has reached a sufficient level of maturity and solidity to prevent it from being caught up in the difficulties of the Middle East process. Moreover, by continuing it can make the best possible contribution, a secondary but significant contribution, to the resumption of dialogue in the Middle East. However, in all the evaluations that are now being made of five years of the Barcelona process, many people think that we can be satisfied simply that the process is continuing, due to the fact that there have been ministerial meetings attended by representatives from Israel, the Palestinian Authority, Syria and Lebanon, etc. And this is, perhaps, a sad consolation. The evaluation is now a contrasting one and, of course, the strategic development of Euro-Mediterranean policy cannot depend on a temporary evaluation. It is continuity over time that can provide results, and positive results will be ultimately measured by the development of the countries of the southern Mediterranean. Those countries come up against a great deal of problems finding a place for their development and economic integration in the context of globalisation and we must do everything in our power to help restore balance to a situation characterised by gulfs between North and South. If current tendencies continue we can be pessimistic about the future. Today a European is statistically twice as rich as someone from the Maghreb, and in twenty years’ time he will be twenty times as rich, if we do not manage to turn the situation around. In this respect, the proposal that the Commission has made for a new impetus is a positive one, and we fully agree with the two priorities that Mr Patten has set out in his speeches and repeated here this afternoon. We need to speed up the processes of the association agreements. Above all, we need to avoid having to make an evaluation of the application of MEDA in five years’ time that leads us to conclude that only 26% have been used. However, this is not enough. We probably need to open up a more medium-term perspective and I can only list the three areas that I feel are essential in that respect: The first is European projects to structure a regional area in the southern countries. The second is an essential policy dealing with the human aspect of managing migration flows. The third is discussion and the quest for progress and consensus in developing a common agricultural policy in the Mediterranean, without which we will probably not be able to achieve a positive outcome in the medium term. – Madam President, every time there is a killing in the Basque Country or in Spain, and this House carries out its dignified ritual of condemning these criminal acts and holding a minute’s silence, we are forced to listen to an MEP, a specialist in funeral addresses, taking the opportunity to spread his propaganda on a programme which we would respect if it were not tragically accompanied by crime and murder. It is an unworthy and, above all, completely pointless exercise which is going to convince no-one in this House. I would ask him to apply his energy and his speaking skills, if he has any, to convincing his friends to stop their murdering. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mrs Gebhardt. I will communicate your request to the President of Parliament. – Mr President, the idea that the Mediterranean is the number one priority of European Union external policy stems from the conviction that, although the Mediterranean is no longer the centre of the world, each and every one of the great contradictions and challenges of the twenty-first century are concentrated there. The Mediterranean provides a dramatic example of the issue of war and peace. The issue of North-South relations is spectacularly alive in the Mediterranean. The very fashionable issue of the clash of cultures or dialogue between cultures is symbolised by the Mediterranean. The emergence of xenophobia and racism, or tolerance and multiculturalism, is most intensely illustrated in the Mediterranean. The question of democracy and human rights or authoritarianism is alive in the Mediterranean and will continue to be so in the coming years. The issue of regional responses to the challenges of globalisation is being raised in the Mediterranean. The issue of women’s emancipation or repression is also at its most intense in the Mediterranean region. There is no need to insist therefore that this is our fundamental priority, because the prospects for its future remain completely open, while enlargement will take time, it will have its costs and its problems, but the only reasonable outcome that anyone can imagine is that it will eventually take place. In the Mediterranean, a ‘sandbelt’ or a ‘slumbelt’ may be created in the twenty-first century, and both issues are dramatically highlighted. The two contributions presented here today, in the European Parliament, are contributions to the relaunch of the Euro-Mediterranean policy. I believe that Mr Patten and Mr Solana would do very well to read these reports, and in particular, the report by my friend and teacher, Sami Naïr, because it makes a very coherent and well put together list of themes, which calls for a political proposal. This policy was well defined in Barcelona five years ago but today it needs not only a new expression of will but also the ability to implement initiatives. We must achieve – above all in the Mediterranean, and we Mediterraneans know this – something very important: things need to be explained. Nevertheless, if anything is lacking today, it is symbolic specific action, a strong signal that the Union, the Council, the Commission and Parliament, are truly interested in this relaunch, which goes beyond words and speeches. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to an aspect of Sami Naïr’s report: the need to create strong initiatives in the fields of South-South trade and for subregional integration or integration in the southern Mediterranean region. We need something strong. I do not know exactly what it may be, but it must truly win over public opinion in the South so that people can see that the European Union clearly has, as well as a well drawn-up policy, the will to create banking and financial instruments, railways that lead to subregional integration in the South or networks of roads and motorways. This message must make a genuine contribution to this renewal of the will for integration which, above all in the Maghreb, is a cause for hope at the momentand which must count on an ambitious and also generous contribution from the Union. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0177/2004) by Mr Sjöstedt, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the management of waste from the extractive industries. Mr President, we are in favour of and support the Commission's communication on reinvigorating EU actions on human rights and democratisation in the southern and eastern Mediterranean. We are convinced that the enormous challenge of developing these neighbouring regions can only be possible, in terms of European responsibilities, if we combine responsibility and management. In other words, through the sound implementation of association agreements with strong political and cultural impetus, in a context in which the norm is increasingly represented by voices and images of poverty, fanaticism and terrorism rather than by the aims of genuinely moving towards freedom, social cohesion and peace. We therefore support this initiative and we advocate that in terms of the European Union’s general policy, as far as human rights are concerned, we should not resort to closing our eyes, on the one hand, for the sake of a false , nor, on the other hand, be content with mere condemnations or protests. We must be ‘consequentialist’ in our policies towards the countries of the southern and eastern Mediterranean. In other words, our priority must always be to consider the consequences of our policies in this regard. As the Commissioner has said quite rightly, there is a strategy which will soon be ten years old – that of the Barcelona process – and all we have to do is remember that, since Barcelona is an Olympic city, the entrance to the Commission's offices should display the motto '' for the development of our Euro-Mediterranean policy. – Mr President, I will speak briefly and avoid using any euphemisms. We are talking about the life or death of people who are very close to us. I am a personal friend of Plácido Micó, General Secretary of the CPDS (social democratic party and member of the Socialist International), who has been found guilty at this trial, which was a disgraceful farce which demonstrated not just a complete lack of compliance with any guarantee, but also the existence of very serious physical torture. We would therefore like to ask the Presidency of the Council to take immediate action, since the information we have from Malabo, from the day before yesterday, is – as Carlos Carnero pointed out – extremely worrying. It is not simply a question of condemning this situation in some euphemistic way, but of exercising all the European Union’s powers to put an end to this terrible scandal for good. – Mr President, I have requested the floor not for personal reasons but on behalf of the President of my group and in my capacity as Vice-President of that group, to say that I thought Mr Poettering’s speech was marvellous. I congratulate you.  I believed that the democratic parties had the legitimate concern of preparing for democratic elections. The accusation of electioneering applies to autocratic leaders, not to democratic leaders. I must say that Mr Berlusconi is electioneering in Spain at this very time. And I must say to Mr Poettering, in view of his assessment of this situation, that he must have read and shared the opinions of some of the characters in George Orwell’s , and that you must believe that all the European citizens are equal, but that some, Mr Berlusconi for example, are more equal than others. Because here the only thing that is certain is that a petition for waiver of immunity has been hidden in an office, in who knows what institution, for at least seven months, in a situation which affects elections about to take place in Italy… – Mr President, I am not going to talk about the good news in relation to the Madrid Summit. I agree with the words of many of my fellow Members, but I believe that one of our obligations is to point out the possible problems and as far in advance as possible. There is good news about Mexico – today we are going to have the honour of receiving President Fox – about Chile and about other things. But I would like to draw the attention of the Council and the Commission to the poorest region of the American continent, that is, Central America. From 1984, the European Union played a very positive role in the development of the peace processes in the region. We are seeing political changes which have meant peace and the installation of democratic governments, but also a situation in which the difficulties of economic and social change are being combined with natural disasters and continuing inequality and poverty of staggering proportions. I believe that the conclusion of a peace agreement should always be viewed as a starting point rather than a point of arrival. And it would be a mistake to be content with the management of the past and not appreciate that there is a risk in the region, and in the whole of Latin America, of a lack of prospects which leads to the most disastrous thing in political and social terms, which is stagnation, not conflict, but a total lack of prospects, the development of stagnant situations. This problem is particularly serious in Central America and I believe that the Union has an essential role to play in supporting the regional development of the area in the medium and long term. To be absolutely frank, I believe there is increasing frustration in Central America in relation to the Madrid Summit, and I would ask the Council and the Commission to do everything possible to prevent this, or at least to alleviate it, by offering prospects for the immediate future. – Mr President, it should be made clear that the European Union’s position on the current Cuban situation is based on the view that the Cuban people are today subject to a double embargo: an external economic embargo that has lasted more than 40 years and which has indiscriminately harmed all the Cuban people, and a political embargo by a regime against its people, by a regime which denies its people their essential rights of expression and association and the right to democratic and open political participation. The European position should clearly be to reject this double embargo, these two embargoes, which feed off each other, and which promote the most intransigent positions with regard to the future of the Cuban people. In this situation of totally closed positions, uncertainties are appearing with regard to how Cuban politics will evolve. The only certainty is that the person with practically all the decision-making power is 77 years old and, therefore, things in that country are going to change. In recent years there has been a significant emergence of demands for democratic change inside and outside Cuba and, in this regard, the wave of brutal and entirely unacceptable oppression which was unleashed a few months ago contains a political lesson: the need to try, if not to break, at least to slow down this entirely ineluctable process. Within this context, we should not have any illusions with regard to the possibilities of modifying current political decisions on the basis of pressure. If 40 years of embargo have not helped to do this, I believe we should abandon any tactical approach of this sort. From a qualitative point of view, we must take a different position: in view of the prospect of inevitable change, to help the Cuban people, to alleviate their sufferings and their needs and to hold constructive dialogue in order to prevent the change from taking the form of civil confrontation or violent confrontation but, on the contrary, to take the form of peaceful transition based on dialogue, agreement and the national independence of Cuba. I believe this must be the principle underpinning the European Union’s position in relation to the current crisis of change in Cuba. On this basis, moreover, we must be intransigent and vigorous in our demands for human rights for the Cuban people and the demand that those dozens of opposition members, intellectuals and journalists who are in prison should be released, that all people imprisoned as a result of their political persuasions or opinions should be liberated. This must be the essential factor in the European Union’s pursuit of a constructive policy of dialogue and solidarity with the Cuban people. Thank you very much, Mrs Wallström. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 12 noon. – Mr President, a positive assessment of the Valencia Ministerial Conference must be considered within the context of the tragic situation in the Middle East. It was not obvious whether the Conference could take place, whether the Arab members of the Barcelona Process would agree to sit down with representatives of Israel, whether the representative of the Palestinian Authority could attend, etc. We should not simply express our satisfaction with the results, but we should also try to explain the reasons for them, which to me are clear. Firstly, the process has acquired its own logic, and there is an awareness of shared interests and a common destiny. Some years after Barcelona this seems absolutely clear. But I would like to stress the second reason, because the European Union’s external policy is so often criticised that we should sometimes stop and consider to what extent the success of the Ministerial Conference in Valencia is due mainly to the perception our Mediterranean partners have of that policy: their perception that our horror at the tragedy in the Middle East is sincere, their perception that we have not backed away in the face of this problem, their perception that our position is not unilateral but coordinated, and finally their perception that we are not indulging in empty posturing in the face of the current problems. As Commissioner Patten said in a comment to the Conference, which is not entirely original, but which is brilliant, the European Union wants to be tough on terrorism but also on the causes of terrorism. We have earned interest on this policy and I am perfectly happy to congratulate Mr Solana, Mr Patten and many others on these good results, although I am not in favour – naturally – of personality cults. However, this satisfaction should not blind us to the great fragility of the Barcelona Process. Poor people – and there are many in the Mediterranean – always have enormous patience as long as two conditions are in place: the first is that they feel that next year is going to be a little better than this one or the last one, that the situation of their children is going to be better than that of their parents and that their grandchildren are going to go to university; the second condition is that they do not feel humiliated. These are the two basic challenges of the European Union’s Mediterranean policy. Barcelona, as Mr Piqué, President-in-Office of the Council, has said, has survived in Valencia, but it will not survive unless we meet this twin challenge. . – Madam President, this Parliament has a long history of activities and relations with Algeria which have always been based on clarity, respect and friendship as well as a sense of shared interest. In the past, this Parliament has on several occasions vigorously condemned the terrorist attacks and violence in Algeria; it has encouraged attempts to achieve peace and harmony and full democracy through dialogue between all the social and democratic forces; whenever it has considered it necessary, it has condemned violations of human rights in Algeria, of whatever kind, and has supported the increasing vitality of Algerian civil society and its democratic forces; it has urged the Algerian authorities to guarantee that the press remains free, as one of their most positive national assets; it has supported the attitude of the Algerian authorities in favour of economic transition, the renegotiation of debt, the stimulation of internal economic investment and external investment, and has expressed the need, on the one hand, for an open and transparent economy with solid and autonomous institutions, as a basis for the economic and social development of the country and, on the other, for a full democratic transition, essential elements of which would be peace and full respect for human rights. The Algerian crisis is partly the result of the events of 1991, of continued intermittent terrorism which has led to a civil confrontation which has probably caused a hundred or a hundred and fifty thousand deaths in Algeria. It would be a mistake, however, from our European perspective, to see the Algerian crisis solely as the result of the horrendous terrorism that has taken place in that country. In fact, there are fundamental democratic issues and also, above all, problems resulting from the economic and social situation. Europe needs Algeria for its creation of a Euro-Mediterranean partnership that turns our southern flank into an area of stability, peace and shared progress in which there is convergence between the economic and social situations of the northern and southern sides of the Mediterranean. Algeria also needs Europe. Three and a half million Algerians live in the countries of the European Union and, from all points of view, the link between Europe and Algeria must be reinforced by means of an approach involving, on the one hand, a social and economic development objective based on the partnership, but also cooperation in the difficult tasks of achieving peace in Algeria, the eradication of terrorism and all types of violence and the full establishment of civil liberties and human rights. I believe that the conclusion of the Association agreement between the European Union and Algeria deserves the full, and possibly unanimous, support of this Parliament. The Association agreement must be a basic instrument to guarantee cooperation in essential areas of economic and social development in Algeria, but also an instrument available to us which we must be able to use, without interference but firmly, to achieve the greatest possible influence on the development of this great country towards peace, harmony amongst its citizens, the eradication of terrorism and all types of violence, the affirmation of human rights and progress in the civil and democratic field. Next Wednesday is the tenth anniversary of the genocide in Rwanda. In memory of the almost one million victims, and to express our hope that we never again see a tragedy of this nature, I would ask you to observe a minute’s silence.  *** –  Mr President, I am told the House was somewhat startled by certain comments Mr Aznar made about this sitting. He seems to have spoken in an undertone but with the microphone still on. Far be it from me to contradict Mr Aznar, if indeed this report is true, particularly at this late hour. I am obviously not the President of the Council, but I would be grateful if you could convey the following suggestion to Mr Aznar on my behalf, Mr President. How should I word it? Perhaps along the lines that in future he ought to moderate his language and choose less offensive vocabulary. As is becoming the norm on these occasions, the run-up to the Council was in stark contrast to its aftermath. Great expectations were raised beforehand by political personalities, notably those involved in the proceedings. Afterwards, they made triumphal assessments. On occasion, they even released the latter in advance. On the other hand, the media and many observers highlighted the discrepancies and the more or less guarded or even pessimistic assessments. To paraphrase the headline in a Brussels’ daily, Barcelona was different in that it turned out to be a colourless summit accompanied by a colourful demonstration. The new and active European social movement showed its strength. Hundreds of thousands of people came out on the streets, actively representing a burgeoning European civil society. They demonstrated in a peaceful, public-spirited and constructive manner, clamouring for more Europe and a more social Europe. In particular, they called for Europe to show greater solidarity and become increasingly involved in a world where globalisation is gathering pace. These demonstrations revealed the extent to which Europe’s citizens are concerned about the building of Europe and the latter’s role in creating a fairer world. Curiously, the classical saying seemed to be reversed. Both before and after the demonstrations what arose was an  which actually implied an , not an . It was as if those statements blaming the citizens for demonstrating were in fact aimed at excusing or concealing the real problem. The latter consists of a lack of communication, understanding and empathy. There is also a worrying gap between the citizens and the conduct of European affairs, which is undertaken essentially at intergovernmental level. Let us hope that the Convention, that great landmark in the history of European democracy, will serve to establish a positive synergy between the democratic institutions and civil society, which made its presence felt in Barcelona during the European Council. The next item is the joint debate on four reports produced on behalf of the European Parliament’s Delegation to the Conciliation Committee: – A5-0242/2004 by Mr Jarzembowski, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Council directive 91/440/EEC on the development of the Community's railways (PE-CONS 3641/2004 - C5-0156/2004 - 2002/0025(COD)); – A5-0245/2004 by Mr Sterckx, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council directive on safety on the Community's railways and amending Council Directive 95/18/EC on the licensing of railway undertakings and Directive 2001/14/EC on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the levying of charges for the use of railway infrastructure and safety certification (Railway Safety Directive) (PE-CONS 3638/2004 – C5-0153/2004 - 2002/0022(COD)); – A5-0243/2004 by Mrs Ainardi, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Council Directive 96/48/EC on the interoperability of the trans-European high-speed rail system and Directive 2001/16/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the interoperability of the trans-European conventional rail system (PE-CONS 3639/2004 – C5-0154/2004 – 2002/0023(COD)); and – A5-0244/2004 by Mr Savary, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Railway Agency (‘Agency Regulation’) (PE-CONS 3640/2004 – C5-0155/2004 – 2002/0024(COD)). – Mr President, yesterday the President of the European Convention ended his speech by evoking the future European slogan: united in diversity. This inevitably leads to the conclusion, therefore, that in the debate on this report and on future Commission policies in the area of linguistic diversity, we are dealing with an issue which is not just highly topical, but which is at the very heart of the European project. So congratulations on this good report. Allow me to comment, however, on a single area of concern: as a Catalan speaker, I am aware of the existence in Europe of languages spoken by millions of people which are not thought of as being minority languages or regional languages and which – despite having official status within their autonomous region – are not state languages and are therefore not languages with official status in the European Union. To deal with the problem of the institutionalisation, the status and the function of these European languages is perhaps the fundamental key to deciding whether the policy of a future European agency for linguistic diversity or the policy on the European institutions is really going to be faithful to the slogan of the future constitutional Union: united in diversity. – Mr President, one of the best pieces of theatre criticism to be published in Europe in the 20th Century, in my humble opinion, went something like this: ‘Yesterday was the opening of such and such a play, by such and such a writer’. I could not hope to emulate the crushing brevity of this, in my view, brilliant journalistic comment. However, my question is practically the same. Why are we arguing about the situation in Tunisia? Why is there a certain crisis in the relations between Europe and Tunisia at the moment which, in one way or another, no doubt affects the relations between the institutions of the European Union and the Tunisian authorities within the framework of cooperation and the association agreement? I believe that this is a useful question to ask, because only by understanding as accurately as possible what is happening in Tunisia and the challenges faced by that country, will we be able to find the tone of moderation and effectiveness which we must develop within the framework of cooperation. There is a great paradox in Tunisia at the moment and my concern is that this paradox may be becoming increasingly dangerous. Tunisia is the most peaceful and prosperous country of the Maghreb, but also has the most closed press and media in the Maghreb. It is the country with the greatest growth and with the greatest advances in terms of social modernisation, particularly in terms of education and the status of women; however it is the country in which the emergence of a civil society, which is born of this economic and social growth, does not have adequate means to express itself in complete freedom. It is a country which is, and has been, in the forefront of the association agreements and the agro-Mediterranean policy, and which has signed all the international conventions on human rights but where, nevertheless, time and time again problems arise relating to human rights which are exaggerated by sections of the European media. Believe me, I am sensitive to the question of human rights. I have spent fifteen years of my life without a passport or driving licence. I have had experiences, which I will not describe, in the police stations and prisons of the Franco dictatorship, but I believe that the fundamental problem in Tunisia at the moment is a different one: the future of Tunisia. We will only be fulfilling our obligations if we in the European Union find the tone and the effectiveness to help the sectors in Tunisia who are in favour of the development needed to accompany and safeguard the future of economic growth and social modernisation. I will end by saying that I share to a large extent the points which Commissioner Patten has expressed, but I would also like to hear from the Commissioner that he also feels a deep concern for Euro-Mediterranean policy, for the policy relating to the Maghreb. Only by ensuring that we are not in a situation where the Council is giving less priority to the Mediterranean, the Commission is hindering the implementation of programmes and the European Parliament is simply giving lectures, will we be able to find the tone and effectiveness of a policy which will help the future of Tunisia, in friendship and solidarity, towards a situation which brings both socio-economic growth and full democratisation. A lot is at stake, not only in Tunisia, but also in the whole of the region, when it comes to achieving the objectives of this task. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0139/2004), by Mr Manders, on behalf of the European Parliament's delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee of a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on environmental liability with regard to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage. – Madam President, we have reached a point where, when we talk publicly about the situation in the Basque Country, we cannot know what the consequences will be. I take this opportunity to enthusiastically greet all the Members of this Parliament. Montaigne said that most of the ills of the world resulted from ‘’, a word which is untranslatable into Spanish, but which is related to ‘ass’. I do not believe that it is worth wasting much time replying to criminal asses. Thank you very much. – Mr President, in November, five years will have passed since the signing of the Barcelona Declaration. The moment has therefore arrived to make an assessment of the Euro-Mediterranean policy, an assessment of the results achieved and also of this policy’s delays and shortcomings. In this respect, this debate and the motions for resolutions tabled by the Groups in this Parliament are very appropriate initiatives. This assessment certainly includes some positive aspects. On the one hand – and this is no small thing – the process has continued, despite the negative factors that have affected the Middle East peace process. The summits and meetings have always been held with the presence of all the countries involved, including Syria, Lebanon and Israel. Secondly, although progress has been slow, we have seen the signing, ratification and implementation of a series of association agreements. Thirdly, we have been developing a permanent routine for intergovernmental cooperation and we have been implementing the different financial aid projects of the MEDA programme. However, these results cannot lead us to ignore the delays and shortcomings which, in part, have frustrated the hopes and expectations raised at the first Euro-Mediterranean Conference of November 1995. Firstly, there has been no decisive political thrust when we really needed it. Strictly speaking, it could be said that, in political terms, Mediterranean policy should today be the main priority of European Union foreign policy. Enlargement towards the East, in strategic and historic terms, leads to a scenario in which the only uncertainties are the timetable, pace, cost and means for achieving it. Even allowing for possible new regional conflicts, it is difficult to imagine any outcome other than the culmination of the enlargement process. On the other hand, there is no certainty whatsoever when it comes to the future of the Mediterranean. It will depend to a large extent on the policy of the European Union as to whether this region becomes a ‘sun belt’ with a new economic and social balance in a context of security, development and peace, or a ‘slum belt’ where the norm will be an increasing imbalance between north and south, galloping poverty in the south and the progressive emergence – forgive the repetition – of every type of emergency: violence, instability, terrorism and uncontrollable migratory pressures. Secondly, I believe that, as a result of this lack of political direction, the economic and financial dimension has experienced obstacles and delays. In this respect, we should point out the difficulties involved in launching the MEDA programmes, the excesses of centralisation, the heterogeneous nature of aid criteria, the lack of joint reflection on the possibility of a common Mediterranean agricultural policy and, thirdly, and as a consequence the tiny amount of direct investment in the south: just 2% of the total of the European Union’s direct foreign investments. This is an illustration of what could be described as the “strategic blindness” of the European system as a whole. In conclusion, a new phase is necessary, with the Portuguese and French presidencies, a brand new start for Euro-Mediterranean policy, which could promote a ‘virtuous’ circle encompassing the objectives which were correctly drawn up at the Euro-Mediterranean Conference in Barcelona in November 1995. – Mr President, I simply wish to thank the Commissioner for the information he has provided us with and the Commission in general for the work it has done, in particular ECHO, to alleviate this situation which is very worrying from a humanitarian point of view. The High Commissioner, Mr Ruud Lubbers, used the word ‘unacceptable’ and I would add politically sordid. If the political explanation for this unacceptable, from a humanitarian point of view, situation is donor fatigue, it must be said that some donors are fatigued by really very small sums. If there is any other explanation, this is all the more sordid, because there are much more worthy and, above all, effective ways to apply pressure than to make women and children suffer as a result of the issue of food aid. In summary, thank you very much, Commissioner, for your information and your work. Please, Mrs Thors, I believe you are trying to reopen the debate. The joint debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 12 noon. –  Mr President, I should like to begin by saying how delighted I am that Parliament has reached a consensus on Euro-Mediterranean policy. It has done so by unanimously endorsing the policy summarised clearly and positively in Mr Esteve’s report. At the same time, I am bound to say not just how disappointed but bitter I feel. I imagine there must by now be broad agreement that this Euro-Mediterranean process is like a game of snakes and ladders in which we have just gone down a very long snake and lost all the ground gained. As regards the economic and social aspects, there is a clear tendency to estrangement and breakdown of the relationship between the European Union and our Mediterranean partners. There is shared responsibility here, but also purely European responsibility. Above all, however, it is in the political sphere that the situation arising as a result of the dreadful events in the Middle East means at least that Euro-Mediterranean relations are exceedingly delicate, if not that the whole process is in danger. I should like to take this opportunity to say that the Valencia Ministers’ meeting will undoubtedly prove a valuable opportunity to bring Israeli and Palestinian representatives together round a table. Nonetheless, attendance by the Palestinian Authority must be a condition  for the meeting to be held. It should be remembered that President Arafat himself was present at the previous meeting. The European Union could never be party to the mockery of bringing together Euro-Mediterranean countries whilst the Palestinian Authority’s seat remained empty. – Mr President, since December 1991, Algeria has been in a situation of permanentviolence. According to the official figures 100 000 people have died during that period, which represents around 1 200 deaths per month, and the figures that the non-official organisations are giving are even worse. In April 1999 the new President, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, ordered a partial amnesty, a law of civil concord, and promised fundamental reforms in order to put an end to the ongoing crisis in the country. So far, however, this policy has had a very limited effect. It does not seem to have been accepted as a true policy of total democratisation and reconciliation. The terrorist activity of the violent fundamentalists has continued, and the situation has been aggravated by the violence of the last few weeks in Kabylia, where demonstrations by hundreds of young people, following the violent death of one of them in a police station, were very violently suppressed in a real bloodbath, which left more than 60 young people dead from police bullets. The situation is really very critical. It is, of course, an Algerian problem, which can only be resolved by Algerians and between Algerians, through a process that democratically restructures and gives greater legitimacy to the institutions and the State, through the agreement of all the political and social sectors who reject violence, from whatever source, and which can, in the face of the violent fundamentalists and also the sectors of the current ruling power that are resistant to change, achieve greater transparency and the participation of all the peaceful forces in the reconstruction of the country. This is a very complicated and difficult task, and the European Union should not miss the target in its support for those in positions of responsibility in the country, supporting all those who are coming from the point of view of peace and democracy. We should act without seeking to interfere, but with firmness and a positive spirit to promote human rights and the democratic process. Tomorrow, a delegation from this Parliament will travel to Algeria. I hope this debate will help to clarify our attitude, which is an entirely positive one, supporting the whole democratic political field in the country, in the institutions and in society, in finding a way out of this violent situation when there does not seem to be one. . Mr President, I was pleased to hear the Commissioner’s words. They clearly demonstrate a concern and a sense of priority, and I would like to say to him that the assessment of this Political Dialogue and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and the Central American region will essentially depend on one factor, and that is what prospects this period the Commissioner has described as transitional will open up. From our point of view, and on the basis of this Parliament’s Resolution of 15 November 2001, this type of political and cooperation agreement must open the way to preparing association agreements which include a free trade treaty, in accordance with the intense aspirations of our Central American partners and, in my view, fully in accordance with the political, economic and commercial interests of the European Union. In other words, the key question is whether a period of negotiations is really being opened up for an association agreement with the Central American countries, and also with those of the Andean Community, of a similar nature,  to those reached with Mexico and Chile, and the one which is being negotiated with Mercosur, as a prelude to a more general strategic perspective which should lead to a global interregional agreement and the creation of a Euro-Latin American free trade area. We are now being offered an opportunity, at the third Summit to take place in May, to demonstrate a sense of anticipation and foresight, explicitly opening up this prospect. Changes are taking place in the region, a region – as we all know – plagued with difficult structural and economic situations, serious ones, but there are undoubtedly encouraging signs; there is a shared will amongst the Presidents of the region to move forward pragmatically in the field of economic integration; there is a new stage for the Central American Bank for Economic Integration, which I believe to be very hopeful; there are plans for the reform of the integration institutions, in particular fairly thorough reforms of the Central American Parliament and, in this regard, the European Union’s presence and voice must contribute to demonstrating clearly that we do not just indulge in diplomacy when there are situations of conflict, but that we apply the same effort and the same sense of priority which was put into decisively assisting the peace processes in the region, that we still have the will and the determination to aim at improving the political, economic and social situation in a region so devastated by historical and current problems. Commissioner, I would like the Guadalajara Summit in May to clearly open up a stage in which the implementation of this Agreement is handled with the greatest possible will, which also involves maintaining the commercial facilities enjoyed by the countries of that region, within the system of generalised preferences and the special ‘drugs’ system, and, above all, that there be a specific commitment made to negotiating a genuine association agreement. While we are on the subject of the Guadalajara Summit, I would like to mention to Mr Patten in particular an issue which does not strictly relate to Central America, but which could be a success story for the Summit in a specific field: there are several black holes in the current world situation, and one of them is called Haiti. And the commitment to prolonged and intense assistance from the European Union, in agreement with the Latin American partners and perfectly in agreement with Caricom, with the OAS and with the United Nations, could, I believe, be a success story for the Guadalajara Summit, which will be consolidated if good intentions are then followed by determined and sustained actions. The next item is the joint debate on three reports, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy: - A5-0173/2004, by Mrs Korhola, on the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the European Community, of the Convention on access to information, public participation in decision making and access to justice regarding environmental matters; - A5-0190/2004, by Mrs Korhola, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on the application of the provisions of the Århus Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters to EC institutions and bodies; - A5-0189/2004, by Mrs Schörling, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on access to justice in environmental matters. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0204/2004) by Mr Oostlander, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the 2003 regular report of the Commission on Turkey's progress towards accession. Mr President, addressing the United Nations General Assembly in September last year, its Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, said, and I quote: ‘The last twelve months have been very painful for those of us who believe in collective answers to our common problems and challenges’. It was a time when many voices in the political world, in the media and a large proportion of public opinion believed that the United Nations was failing in some way. Subsequent developments, in Iraq in particular, have demonstrated that things are never simple, and the current situation can be described by means of the lyrics of a Spanish song which say ‘neither with you nor without you is there any relief for my pain’. There is no such relief either  the United Nations – which demonstrated, not in Iraq, but in relation to previous terrible crises, in Rwanda for example, its powerlessness to prevent tragic outcomes – or  the United Nations, as demonstrated at the moment by this ridiculous impasse of an intervention which has no political solution in a country such as Iraq. Our group's position on the Laschet report has been one of broad agreement, with the emphasis on certain fundamental aspects. The first is a strong commitment to principles and values. In response to the idiotic criticism of those people who believe this to be idealism, we could reply that values are interests. In our societies and in the whole world, the application of principles and values is our principal interest. While, moreover, we are talking about lesser interests, we can state that the material contribution of the European Union and its countries is so great and so disproportionate to its political weight within the UN system that the European Union is obliged to commit itself to making progress towards a modification of the current state of affairs. There are two ways of doing this: one is the establishment of a common and strong European Union foreign and defence policy; the other is to make progress towards a European Union presence on the Security Council in a positive way and on the basis of speeding up the current constitution-building process, which ensures that the voice of its peoples, by means of their representatives, are respected by governments and that we establish as soon as possible a European Constitution which allows us to implement a common foreign and security policy worthy of the name. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 12 noon. – Madam President, our concern about the current state of transatlantic relations does not stem solely from the vicissitudes of the Iraq crisis or its possible consequences, but from deeper causes, and essentially the realisation that we are seeing a truly radical change, a truly extraordinary change in the United States’ foreign and security policy, under the neo-conservative banner. Leadership by means of multinational cooperation has been replaced by a global unilateralist approach, the strategies of containment and dissuasion by the doctrine of pre-emptive attack and the restrictions imposed by participation in alliances and multilateral institutions by the creation of made-to-measure coalitions in which a form of subordination based on the notion that ‘you are either with me or against me’ tend to predominate. Many of us in Europe believe that this way of thinking, rather than producing a Pax Americana, may actually produce significant American chaos in the world. Within this context, if Europe wishes to meet its responsibilities it must turn itself into an organisation capable of playing a significant role on the international stage and, in order to achieve this, European policy must permanently pursue the objective of multilateralising the United States – an objective which is not entirely out of reach if we consider that opinion polls indicate that almost two-thirds of the American public prefer multilateral approaches to unilateral ones. Within a renewed relationship we must accept clearly that there are significant discrepancies, that there are many differences of perception and approach but there are also many shared views and potential points of agreement. If we accept this contrasting situation we will be able to make progress. I would finally like to say that I believe that positions expressed by the High Representative and Commissioner Patten, as well as the specific proposals presented by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, are aimed in the right direction and we will support them. The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0193/2004) by Mrs Paulsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on a European environment and health strategy. – Mr President, to the statement used as the  or motto of Porto Alegre, ‘Another world is possible’, we should add the issue of whether the world, with its current tendencies, without changes or reforms in view of globalisation, can develop in a peaceful manner. The events of recent months are not exactly cause for optimism in this regard. Just as the strategic mantra of the Cold War was deterrence, that is, the threat of mutual destruction, now, within a plural and contradictory framework, it appears that the belief is arising that the dominant concept must, in a disturbed and dangerous world, which is increasingly insecure, be that of prevention. Nevertheless, we are seeing a growing and increasingly visible conflict over the form effective prevention policies may take. On the one hand, we see the response of a form of globalisation resulting from deregulated market capitalism, the unilateral leadership of the strongest and the new doctrine of preventive, dissuasive military action and ad hoc coalitions. On the other hand, we see increasingly large sectors with very opposing ideological positions, but which agree that, in view of the globalised world, the response must be a multilateral policy of democratic rules, global reforms and peace, particularly in view of the threat of terrorism, stating that what we essentially have to do is remove the sources of hate and humiliation in the world. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, in the face of this emergence of a world public opinion demanding reforms of globalisation, we need a realistic vision, broad consensus on reform and concrete and financially viable initiatives. Europe has a vital interest in this issue. It must exert a world influence and be fully aware of its global responsibilities. Its original raison d’être was peace, following the devastating wars of the twentieth century. Over the last fifty years, it has perhaps been the first effective supranational response to the challenges of globalisation. In order to pursue this development, we must establish ourselves as a global player, with a more united and powerful foreign policy, despite all the current difficulties, because these movements, this global civil society, is increasingly demanding a Europe, a united Europe, and we must not disappoint. Mrs Thors, did you request the floor for a clarification? –  Mr President, in general, following the terrible events of 11 September, Europe has surreptitiously moved the more controversial issues down the Transatlantic Agenda. I was mistaken, as were others. The laws of physics do not normally apply to politics, with the possible exception of the Archimedes principle. I do not think I would be dramatising the present situation in saying that disagreements between the European Union and the United States are both new and alarming. So too is the tone of the disagreement between the European Union and the United States, by which I mean the present government of the United States. We all, or nearly all, bemoan the American unilateral attitude. We do not however accept that this is due to Europe failing to assume its global responsibilities in full. I agree with Commissioner Patten that we do not need new ideas. We must, however, give up the old ones, including the notion that Member States, or certain Member States, can play a leading role in world affairs. It is not just desirable but essential to promote a return to the old multilateral attitude adopted by the United States in the forties and fifties. This can best be achieved by the European Union’s adoption of a single common foreign policy. The latter would help to restore the political balance of the Transatlantic Agenda. Such a new relationship cannot depend on readjusting military capabilities. This issue still poses a challenge for Europe, however. We do not have to restrict ourselves to exercising our enormous so-called ‘soft power’ is we do not wish to do so. Europe can also have a genuine common defence policy. This would not, in the first instance, involve a budget increase. Instead, it would require the forging of a single policy, and a great deal of work remains to be done in this regard. – Mr President, Commissioner Patten is right when he says that the situation, while still very complex and difficult, has developed over recent days towards a more articulate context, in which the process has matured noticeably and public opinion has moved on, especially United States public opinion. President Bush has said that the vote for a resolution in Congress does not mean that military action is imminent or inevitable, and British Foreign Minister Straw, at the Security Council negotiations, has said that 'we prefer one resolution but we have never ruled out, and nor do we rule out, there being two'. Also important is the statement by Mr Blix and Mr El Baradei, who lead the United Nations inspection teams, pointing out that the provisions accepted by the Iraqis last week in Vienna are, in their judgment, sufficient for them to work effectively on the inspection tasks. I believe that in this critical situation, the fundamental issues have been raised recently by an American citizen who is no ordinary American citizen: he won the recent presidential elections in terms of votes; I am referring to Mr Al Gore, who has pointed out something obvious: that the essential and urgent issue at the moment is the fight against terrorism and in particular against those who carried out the attacks of 11 September. In this regard, Gore criticised President Bush for having squandered – to quote literally – the extraordinary response of sympathy, good will and solidarity which followed the attacks of 11 September which – he said – has been replaced by an atmosphere of fear and reticence towards the United States administration. I believe that in this situation, which is developing in a relatively favourable manner, energetic and mature criteria must be applied in carrying out the war against terror, and this essentially requires that Europe apply two priorities: rapid convergence within the United Nations and its Security Council and, secondly, making every effort so that the future task of the inspectors may end in success. – Mr President, in a recent survey in Morocco, 82% of secondary school students expressed their desire to emigrate to Europe. Last year, more than 100 000 Maghreb citizens tried to enter the European Union illegally. The differences in economic growth and wealth and the democratic differential between the European Union and the Maghreb is increasing. The gulf is widening. Furthermore, the most recent political processes in the European Union are demonstrating the extent to which this tragedy of the mass exodus of population leads to greater social and political upheaval, with the risk that this may lead to a growth in populism and the extreme right. We do not have much time left to reverse this trend and it seems to me that neither the Council nor the Commission realise how extremely serious the problems relating to the development prospects of the Maghreb and the countries of the South and East of the Mediterranean in general are. There is not much time left, perhaps a decade, but not much more. This Parliament had expressed the view that Euro-Mediterranean policy should be the top priority of the European Union’s external policy. Given the way things are developing, perhaps we should reach the conclusion that the European Union’s policy on the Maghreb and Euro-Mediterranean relations should also be one of our main internal priorities. The debate is closed. The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 12 noon. –  Mr President, I hope that my speech will not cause the President-in-Office of the Council to miss his flight. Therefore, in light of the response he has given me, I would like to reformulate my question and ask two that are very specific. The first refers to the proposal from the Presidency-in-Office for a Euro-Mediterranean Development Bank. Is the Presidency-in-Office able to guarantee the success of this proposal or will we have to be content with a simple line of facilities or with the promise of the optimisation of the MEDA programmes? My second, also very specific, question refers to the presence in Valencia, not of third Mediterranean countries, but of Ministers for Foreign Affairs from EU Member States. Are you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, able to guarantee that there will be no repeat of the scandal of the last Euro-Mediterranean Conference, where, out of fifteen Member States, only four Ministers for Foreign Affairs bothered to turn up? – Mr President, this is an own-initiative report on the interim review of Agenda 2000 in relation to the second pillar – rural development. We believe that rural development has to consolidate a multifunctional agricultural system across the Union, and that rural development therefore needs to be one of the European Union’s priorities. The first and second pillars are two indissociable instruments of the common agricultural policy and should, therefore, complement each other and be used for the benefit of a multifunctional agricultural system that will enable many farms to be maintained across the European Union. We think that the first and second pillars complementing each other is the only way of preventing a dual system of agriculture from being created within the European Union, with one type only looking towards the markets and depending solely on market aid while the other has its back to the agricultural markets and depends on aid that is disconnected from production. It is not and would not be a good model for the first and second pillars to be like two sealed and unconnected compartments and for all the multi-functionality to be concentrated in the second pillar, on rural development. Mr Fiori, as you have just referred to my report, I have to tell you that I think that your view is wrong and ultimately inefficient. Multifunctional agriculture must enable us to combine market management and management of rural areas and enable farms across the current and enlarged Union to exist and be viable. It is true that Agenda 2000 created the second pillar of the CAP, rural development, and we welcome that. However, we have to criticise the fact that it has a meagre budget: 10% of the total CAP budget is what we devote to rural development. We therefore ask for a greater budgetary allocation, a budgetary strengthening of this pillar, so that it can meet the challenges that it is faced with. We have also been unhappy to see that the uneven application of rural development measures by the Member States does not always produce a positive result for the rural areas of the Union. This is particularly the case for those areas that are most rural, most remote and which are lagging the furthest behind, which are not finding a truly satisfactory solution to these problems. We therefore propose that, without diminishing the powers of the national authorities, we should establish priorities under the second pillar of the CAP in order to move forward in defining a core of priority measures at Community level that guarantee sustainable development in the Union. We also propose that the Commission define a new typology for rural areas to enable us to set priority measures for each area and also to help us to apply different percentages of co-financing according to the various rural problems that exist in the Union. We ask that, as part of the interim review of Agenda 2000, there should be compulsory and uniform modulation of aid under the first pillar. Mr Fiori said that voluntary modulation has failed. There should, therefore, be compulsory and uniform modulation of aid under the first pillar, in order to use those freed-up resources, not only for the measures that we can currently use them for, the agro-environmental sector, early retirement and reforestation, but also for all the measures established in the regulations on rural development. We think that as part of this measure and in the interim review we should strengthen the eco-conditionality of aid and establish a link between the disbursement of direct payments and the provision of services within a multifunctional system, extending eco-conditionality measures in favour of sustainable development. We also ask for the Community support framework for rural development to be simplified through the creation, on the basis of the two EAGGF Guarantee and EAGGF Guidance sections, of a single agri-rural fund for the whole of the CAP. And on the occasion of this report in favour of multifunctional agriculture and of a different multifunctional agricultural policy, I would like to finish by asking for codecision for Parliament on agricultural policy. –  Mr President, the Commission proposal is satisfactory because it clearly attempts to simplify matters by replacing the variable premium with a single premium, meaning that the sector will now know in advance the amount it is to receive and will no longer have to suffer from the uncertainty it has had to endure up until now. We naturally support the idea that the premium should guarantee an income that is acceptable to the producer and my personal opinion is that this income should be the same for producers of both heavy and light lambs, as approved in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The market in sheep’s milk is not regulated in the same way as the market in cow’s milk and income from milk is balanced by a lower level of income from meat production, especially in Mediterranean countries where mixed farms that produce wool, milk and meat slaughter these animals at lower weights, once again, largely in accordance with eating habits. With regard to the supplementary premium that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development proposed and approved, I have to say that the Commission should be very vigilant that this supplementary premium should in no case be used to reduce the linear premium, the headage premium or the premium for rural development. The Commission should understand that Parliament’s Committee wants to see an increase in the premium, comprised of three parts: a headage premium, a premium for rural development and a supplementary premium, in order to be able to help States implement the principle of flexibility. However, I would strongly urge that this introduction is not, at the end of the day, used to achieve a reduction in the headage premium or in the premium for rural development. Finally, I would like to say, and the Commissioner is well aware of this, that this sector makes an important contribution to land-use planning and to all the environmental services that we say we are going to defend in this new future common agricultural policy. However, I think that that truly guaranteeing an income in both this COM and this sector that could pay for the non-food services that this type of livestock farming provides throughout the Community would send an important political signal. –  Mr President, I too shall refer only to the directive on fruit juice, as time is short. Along with previous speakers, we believe that the Council’s proposal represents definite progress because it establishes a clear distinction between fresh fruit juice and concentrated juice. This is a welcome development as it provides consumers with full information on two products with different characteristics produced in very different ways. We cannot therefore support any amendment aimed at blurring or doing away with the distinction established so clearly in the Council’s text. Further, we cannot accept the amendments aimed at ending the use of fruit from the fresh market. This is what would result if we agreed to ban treatment after gathering. The use of this fruit makes it possible to provide the consumer with a healthy product, manufactured to high standards of quality and food safety. It is also a way of utilising surplus agricultural production so that large quantities are not allowed to rot and pollute the environment. Consequently, we shall support the Council’s proposal and vote in its favour. In our view, the majority of the amendments tabled in committee do not serve to clarify or improve the situation. Instead, they cause further confusion. – Mr President, Commissioner, with regard to the communication on vegetable protein production, I join in what has been said by my colleagues in this House. The Commission’s study is disappointing, as it is not very ambitious and is based on exclusively economic criteria. The European Union’s situation with regard to its deficit of vegetable proteins, due to the Blair House agreements, in which we agreed to a reduction in our vegetable protein production while in the mean time we were feeding our livestock on meat meal from dead animals, required that the Commission take a more ambitious and broader approach to this study. It does not take into account, as has already been said, the strategic significance for European livestock breeding of being dependent on imports from third countries for the supply of vegetable proteins, and of the fact that those imports consist almost exclusively of genetically modified food. Nor does it take into account what it would mean to increase these crops that are rich in vegetable proteins in order to re-establish the balance and capacity to supply of the whole of the European Union, which would undoubtedly be very beneficial for achieving more extensive and better quality livestock. In short, the study does not take into account any of the elements on which our agricultural policy should be based: food quality, protection and development of the environment and sustainable development, because neither is there any element in the study that tells us what an increase in these crops would mean in terms of creating another economic activity in agriculture, and in terms of the farmers themselves using them and processing them into food for their livestock, which would also mean a considerable increase in income in the rural economy. In any event, what the Commission is telling us about it being better to continue importing and depending on third countries because it is cheaper is not correct. We have experience of the cheapest thing not being the best thing. –  Mr President, the challenge of enlargement is an inalienable political objective, and it is unacceptable that negotiation of the agricultural chapter should put the aim or the timetable of enlargement at risk. It is therefore absolutely essential that we should continue working to support the efforts that the candidate countries are making to restructure and modernise their agriculture, under the requirement that the candidate countries should comply with the Community acquis, but we must be quite clear that we too must comply with this Community acquis. Direct payments form part of this Community acquis and the Commission’s proposal that they be phased in, which we support, should ensure that there will soon be a single agricultural policy for the expanded European Union. The rural development measures must ensure that there are active rural areas with diversified production in the candidate countries and especially that they guarantee employment. Lastly, it must be remembered that enlargement cannot be associated with the reform of the agricultural policy. Reform of the CAP goes at its own speed and according to its own timetable, and to a great extent it depends on the results of our negotiations in the World Trade Organisation and their effects on world market trends. –  Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as you know, the Fontaneda factory and trademark are emblematic in Spain and are historically and geographically linked to the Aguilar de Campoo area. They are the driving force behind social and economic development in this whole area, which is located in a European Objective 1 region with serious depopulation problems, where, in 2001, 1 500 people have already lost their jobs. The announcement of the closure – and it seems that today the company has put this right – was purely in business interests and would naturally mean that jobs would have to be relocated, which shows genuine contempt for workers’ rights, and furthermore the fictitious transfer of the trademark in order to keep producing these biscuits in a location other than the one it has been historically linked to. This situation is too serious for the President-in-Office of the Council to say that nothing can be done. It would have been more reasonable had he been concerned about the social consequences of these business decisions and the need for the European Union to confront the challenge of establishing Community principles that respect the social rights of workers, and that offer effective responses to the social, economic and territorial consequences of these decisions. Does he really not think that such a declaration from the person representing the Presidency would have been more worthy and more in line with the social Europe we want to construct? – Mr President, for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the principle aspects of this report on budgetary discipline on which we have presented amendments are the following: Firstly, the new coverage of the agricultural guidelines and their future revision. The Commission includes within the scope of the guidelines the available amounts foreseen in the Financial Perspective for accession, which appear in heading 8 of the interinstitutional agreement. This heading envisages a hypothetical scenario prior to enlargement for the purposes of mere illustration and orientation. Therefore, we understand that it is not possible to include it within the guidelines. In fact, the correct thing to do would be to re-examine the guidelines before the first enlargement on the basis of the real needs so as not to block a series of guideline appropriations with total uncertainty with regard to their suitability in terms of amount as well as timescale. Secondly, the adequate funding of rural development and the accompanying measures. In this respect, the Commission is urged to introduce sufficient flexibility in its management in order to respond appropriately to the multiannual and non-compulsory nature of these expenses. On the other hand, we consider it necessary to also improve funding conditions and, therefore, we propose the possibility of carrying out transfers of unused appropriations from compulsory to non-compulsory expenditure. Thirdly, the implementation of the principle of flexibility within certain limits for agricultural expenditure, proposing the transfer to the following budgetary year of unused expenses or resources. We consider that this would not only improve the funding of the second pillar of the CAP, but that it would make it possible to deal with disasters or unexpected situations with the speed and efficiency that such events require. Lastly, in relation to the increases in the management powers of the Commission, by means of which it can reduce the amount of direct aid or suspend the payment of monthly advances to the States, we consider that Parliament is not sufficiently involved in the adoption of these measures. And we also believe that they cannot be used in a systematic way because that could lead to a budgetary overrun year after year at the expense of the real needs of the budget over which they are exercised, which could even result in peace itself being put at risk. – Mr President, we agree with the objectives pursued in the Commission’s proposal on the new regulation on flax and hemp: to regulate and balance the markets, simplify the common agricultural policy and prevent fraud. However, we do not agree with the chosen method. This is because we consider that this proposal, since the amendments improving it, which were presented by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, have not been accepted, may lead to the total disappearance of hemp and flax crops in small- and medium-sized holdings, and as an alternative crop in certain areas of the Union. We believe, Commissioner, that it is unacceptable that, in order to put an end to fraud, we should seek to end cultivation within a certain sector. This is a good time to point out that the best way to combat fraud is through the total transparency of public aid and of the investigations into fraud that are under way, and publishing the names of fraudsters, as the only way of preventing all farmers and the whole of the sector from having to pay for the consequences of fraud on the part of a few speculators. The inclusion of flax and hemp within the general regulations on herbaceous plants requires the establishment of a single yield for all areas of the European Union. The existence of different yields in northern and southern areas, in the different regions of the Union, may lead to real discrimination in payments per surface area with regard to this crop. Therefore, we request that the inclusion of an average yield be accepted for all regions of the Union, and that this be the average yield for cereals. With regard to aid for processing, we feel that it is completely inappropriate that there should be transitional aid for the processing of short-fibre flax, as the Commission proposes, which would end in 2006. We believe that it should be long-term aid and that it should be brought into line with the aid for the processing of long-fibre flax, which is the only way of guaranteeing the commercial production of short-fibre flax in an industrial sector which provides a genuine alternative to synthetic products. Commissioner, we are in complete agreement on the need for stabilisers with regard to this crop, but we completely disagree with the national guaranteed quantities established in the Commission’s proposal, since we feel that they are absolutely inadequate and represent quite the opposite of the actual situation in each of the countries. We therefore also ask you to consider the proposal presented by the Committee on Agriculture. Lastly, we absolutely agree with the existence of controls in this sector. Therefore, the existence, in every single case, of the sales contract between the farmer and the processor, seems to us to be essential. We are therefore voting against the report with regard to the disappearance of these contracts. The existence of a contract is the best way of proving that the crop has been sold and processed. – Mr President, the resolution presented this morning in plenary is indeed the result of agreement and consensus across all the political groups within the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Consensus would never have been reached however, without the wonderful work of Mr Daul, the Chairman of the Committee. I would like to thank him for all he has done. Through the resolution all the political groups demonstrate their support for reform of the common agricultural policy, a reform which we all deem necessary. We welcome and support its objectives. It is vital that the second pillar of the CAP is strengthened as regards the budget, by transferring funds from the first to the second pillar. Strengthening the second pillar, and extending its scope to food safety and quality, are certainly very positive moves. In addition, the reform envisages the dynamic adjustment of funds in accordance with the criteria for social and territorial cohesion. Nonetheless, some very worrying elements remain. The compulsory adjustment proposed in the reform does not constitute true adjustment. Rather, it is an across-the-board reduction in aid which I cannot support. We are very concerned about the principle of decoupling aid. The notion of a reference period cannot be used to establish single payment and decoupling. If that were to happen, it would amount to doing away with the use of this instrument to distribute the support provided by the CAP more fairly, given that the policy has created profound differences between farming areas and farmers across the European Union. Following our debate on the Council’s agreement, reform is all the more necessary. It is not possible for all farmers to pay in equal measure for the reduction in the budget for agriculture. The 5% of farmers who received 50% of direct aid in 2001 might cope with this reduction but the small and medium-sized farmers certainly cannot. Mr President, the objective of this Directive, which is to ensure that animals are transported in dignified conditions, deserves all our support, but we want all decisions we adopt in this regard to be based on scientific and technical criteria. Furthermore, we must not forget that the transport of animals is subject to the rules and standards of the internal market and that we cannot legislate without taking account of economic reality, because surrounding the transport of animals there is economic activity for many areas of the European Union. We cannot agree with the rapporteur’s proposal with regard to the difference between animals intended for slaughter and animals intended to live. Dignified transportation affects both equally. With regard to the duration of transportation, from the outset the Commission has maintained its desire to bring the permitted duration of transportation into line with social legislation, but the truth is, Commissioner, that the best thing for the animal’s welfare is to reach its destination as quickly as possible. A rest of 12 hours for animals in the vehicle blatantly violates the welfare and dignity of the animals being transported, but the restriction of nine hours’ transportation also blatantly violates the principle of the internal market. We therefore believe that the coherent and correct solution or proposal will be to establish the obligation for two drivers, with a cycle of nine hours which would allow for a brief rest in order to be able to continue another cycle of nine hours in the transportation. Finally, I would like to say that we believe that all our efforts on this proposal to guarantee the dignity of animals in transport must focus on good conditions for the vehicles which transport them, good preparation of the people responsible for the transportation and, above all, ensuring that the rules we decide on here are complied with throughout the territory of the European Union. Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission has presented a communication on reform of the sugar, tobacco and cotton sectors. I am bound make an initial observation. It is that yet again this debate has been characterised by blatant discrimination against traditional Mediterranean crops as regards reform of their production. Mr Jove Peres highlighted this earlier. Concerning the sugar sector, there is a document outlining a number of options. It is due to be discussed and worked on in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. A decision will then be taken in plenary. By contrast, the only chance of debating the implications of the communication for the other three Mediterranean crops will be following an oral question today. This will not even lead to a resolution in plenary. There does not appear to be any justification for such differences in formal procedures. Furthermore, discrimination and variable treatment are evident in the substance, not just in the formalities. Changes are in train within the common agricultural policy. Price support mechanisms are being phased out and replaced with others designed to support income. The Commission itself is on record as stating that this concludes the 1992 decoupling. Transitional periods of between 15 and 17 years are therefore involved. Nonetheless, immediate changes are demanded in these three sectors. This means that for cotton, olive oil and tobacco, there is to be a sudden change from aid linked directly to production to totally decoupled aid. There can be no justification for failure to provide an opportunity for us to discuss a suitable transitional period with the Commission. The employment generated in the sectors in question is of crucial importance. I refer not only to the jobs linked to cultivation of the crops, but also to jobs dependent on the processing industry, jobs in the service industries and in general to the wealth created in rural areas. Loss of production and winding up production in these sectors will have dramatic economic consequences. The result will be large-scale rural exodus. I therefore urge the Commission to be flexible. There must be an opportunity to discuss the various options contained in the proposals made. Impact assessments are needed too. I would remind the Commissioner that no impact assessment has yet been undertaken for the cotton sector. I also appeal to the Commission to be flexible when it comes to discussion of transitional adjustment periods appropriate for these sectors. Before I conclude, I should like to call on the Commissioner to provide a clear explanation of the importance of Community cotton production in the global market. I do so in my capacity as rapporteur for the cotton sector and in the wake of Cancun. The Union accounts for 0.5% of global cotton production. It does not grant any export refunds whatsoever. Imports are totally free. They are not subject to tariffs of any kind. Furthermore, 80% of the cotton used in the Union is imported. . – Mr President, Commissioner, last June you presented us with a document on reform of the CAP which established the objectives which this reform should pursue: food quality and safety, the strengthening of rural development and more extensive production methods which are compatible with the environment. Nobody could oppose these objectives, but today we have to tell you that the instruments you wish to use are not only mistaken, because they are not valid in terms of achieving the proposed objectives, but that, most seriously, they move in the opposite direction. One of the key elements of your reform – the decoupling of subsidies – may have adverse effects if we do not manage to modify it. The decoupling proposed to us for certain sectors as an instrument capable of creating a new model for agricultural policy is not viable if you maintain the criterion of historical references in order to set the decoupled aid by farm. The direct aid, as laid out, corresponds to the logic of the market and is directly linked to quantities produced and the yields allocated. According to the information that you yourself have provided, in 2001 5% of European farmers received 50% of the direct subsidies. You cannot ask us to accept the validity of this great imbalance in the distribution of aid in order to support the implementation of a new CAP. In the herbaceous sector, a model in which you propose total decoupling, 3% of farms receive 40% of the support. If we work on that basis, if we allow that situation to continue, Commissioner, we would be changing everything so that everything can stay the same. Please allow me once again to ask you to change the criteria for allocating decoupled aid; use multifunctional criteria in order to establish genuine multifunctional aid by farm. Agricultural multifunctionality means that agriculture contributes to the maintenance of the rural population, creating jobs. It also helps to preserve the environment, preventing depopulation and desertification of our territory. You should therefore introduce the criterion of territory, the criterion of agricultural surface area, the criterion of employment generated and of the environmental benefits contributed by the farm and then we will be in a position to talk about genuine multifunctional aid. Of a genuine decoupling of aid to production, but of a genuine coupling of aid to producers and their farms. You yourself recognise that this proposed decoupling will create serious problems for many small and medium-sized farms, in less favoured and less productive areas. If that is the case, change it, Commissioner, because otherwise we will be banishing many of the European Union’s small and medium-sized farms from the agricultural system. Another key element of this reform is modulation. In June I applauded and supported it. Let us reinforce rural development by means of significant modulation, transferring funds from the first pillar to the second pillar. What is now proposed to us following the budgetary Council in Brussels on 24 and 25 October – where the Community budget was cut – is that just 6% of the modulation should go to rural development, leaving the rest to fund sectoral reforms in the first pillar. It is true, as you say, that this is a Council agreement and that the Council therefore has political responsibility for it, as do those people who, like my government, applauded it and who lied to the farmers, telling them that they would guarantee sufficient budget until 2013. That is not true. In 2008 there will be problems, as you have acknowledged. I would ask you to be a little more rebellious, to make a little more effort, if you really believe that rural development has to be strengthened in order to create a more sustainable and fairer CAP. I say no to a linear modulation, which would mean that the cut in direct aid would affect all farmers equally in order to fund the budgetary gaps in the Brussels agreement. And I say no to a modulation which is the same regardless of differences between favoured and less favoured areas, and which does not take account of the farmers’ incomes. And I say no to dealing with the person who receives EUR 5 000 in the same way as the person who receives EUR 50 000 or more. That is not fair, Commissioner. For all these reasons, I would ask you, please, to show flexibility, not to expel the small and medium-sized farms from the market. Those smaller farms guarantee the viability of a rural framework which take up more than 80% of European rural territory. This reform, essentially, does not provide cohesion, it does not contribute more social justice to an agricultural policy which is in great need of it. I would ask you to reflect and to modify this proposal. Mr President, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Adam, for his work. He has produced a wonderful report and, throughout its production, he has shown great skill in introducing all those aspects which could improve it and make it more flexible. As has already been said in this debate, the identification and traceability of goats is an essential element in the control of animal health and, also, of course, food safety. The problems of identification in this type of livestock are very significant; the movement of livestock which can take place within one year, which has an enormous influence on the problems of traceability, or the way in which the lives of this type of livestock are spent, which hinders adequate registration and identification by means of the current systems. We therefore believe that it is very important to establish a sufficiently long transitional period during which we can adopt flexible measures in order to reach a date, naturally, when the electronic identification becomes obligatory for all the countries of the European Union. It is very important that we understand that the additional cost of an electronic identification system must not be an additional cost which solely and exclusively falls to breeders, but which must be taken on by society as a whole, since it is society which will benefit from the implementation of such a system of traceability and identification as ambitious as the one being proposed to us. – Mr President, Commissioner, we support and we consider very positive the Commission’s efforts to integrate the developing countries and the least developed countries into these negotiations, access without customs duties or quotas for those countries and the creation of a food security box, but we also believe that in some proposals we could have gone further, such as in the proposal relating to the reduction in export refunds, on which I trust we can make progress during the negotiations. I would also like to say that the commitment to greater openness must be accompanied by a fair distribution of responsibilities amongst the developed countries. In this regard, we must condemn the unilateral nature of the United States’ agricultural policy. Commissioner, I am concerned, however, that the model of agricultural multifunctionality may be jeopardised. I must tell you that in the proposal for negotiation multifunctional considerations are mentioned just once when the Commission refers to access to the market for the poorest countries. With regard to Community agriculture, it is true that we are now referring to social objectives such as the protection of the environment, public health, obligatory labelling or the need to compensate for the additional costs of animal welfare. But European agricultural multifunctionality no longer plays an important role in this offer for negotiation and the main focus has passed to the decoupling of aid, the principle which the Commission is going to concentrate the negotiation on, in the internal support chapter. Commissioner, I believe that, if we allow our entire negotiating strategy to rest on the principle of decoupling, we may find ourselves without any room for manoeuvre in terms of guaranteeing elements which are essential to European agriculture, such as the stability of markets, with the maintenance of stable and economically viable prices which allow producers to earn an income. – Mr President, as has already been said, the reform presented to us by the Commission on 13 February 2001, as a package of seven measures to deal with the problems created in the beef market by the BSE crisis, clearly deserves critical consideration by our Group. Firstly because, while the Community cattle sector is hoping for measures to solve the crisis it is facing, only two of the measures in this package appear to be appropriate for resolving one particular crisis, that is, the Commission’s budgetary crisis in relation to solving it. Only the removal of the ceiling on public intervention of 350 000 tonnes for meat, with a view to preventing the implementation of the so-called safety network intervention system, seems to be a genuine crisis measure, as well as the measure – already approved by the management committee for meat on 16 March – of introducing a new intervention method for the sale and storage of animals of more than 30 months. Please allow me to say also, Commissioner, that this measure does little to improve consumer confidence and to resolve the market problems, since we are storing meat which will later have to enter the market, thereby creating significant imbalances within that market. The other five measures are really directed at the sector, but they are not urgent and they can enter into force and have their effects in the short and medium term. These measures should really have been proposed with the calmness required for a reform in a sector suffering such a deep crisis. However, I must be absolutely critical in relation to two of them. One is the removal of the national limit on premiums for male cattle by means of individual laws; I believe that this measure is wrong and would lead us to a market of quotas, which would be closed and narrow, and would do absolutely nothing for the transparency and simplification of the CAP nor a future reform of this sector. The other is the restriction of production, as intended, by means of the reduction in the premium for suckler cows. Commissioner, this proposal, which lays down that, in order to receive the premium for suckler cows, between 20 and 40% of the animals for which the premium is requested must be heifers, is intended to reduce the quantity of meat available on the market; but what it removes is quality meat which originates from herds of suckler cows bred within extensive systems. This measure therefore has the completely wrong objective and is clearly contrary to the often-repeated objective of Community agricultural policy promoting extensive agriculture. . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, among the package of seven measures proposed by the Commission in order to deal with the BSE crisis is the modification of the basic regulation on herbaceous crops in order to permit, in the context of organic farming, the use of set-aside land for growing some leguminous fodder crops for feeding livestock. As a background we have the ban of the use of meat and bone meal – a temporary ban that many of us trust will become permanent – and the now long-term EU deficit of vegetable proteins. The Commission proposal is going in the right direction but it limits itself to proposing a symbolic modification, the impact of which, limited solely to organic farming, is not going to give visible results. Mrs Auroi’s report, with the amendments adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, correct this timid proposal by extending it to farms that operate in accordance with Regulation 1257/99 on rural development, and by including, from 2002, the growing of leguminous fodder crops on land left fallow in conventional livestock farms. In this way we may be able to effectively counteract the EU’s dependence on supplies of proteins that are in many cases genetically modified and, as they are used to feed livestock, are introduced into the food chain without any opportunity for control on the part of consumers. The Group of the Party of European Socialists therefore supported the amendments adopted in the Committee responsible and there is nothing more for us to do than hope that the Commission will take them into account along with the successive requests from members of this House for effective progress to be made towards a visible correction of the European deficit of vegetable proteins. – Mr President, for some unknown reason I have not been able to speak amongst the draftspeople of the opinions of the different committees, but I am now going to give the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development believes that the non-introduction of co-decision is one of the main issues left undealt with at Nice. Therefore, agriculture is still receiving discriminatory treatment in comparison with fields connected to it such as public health, consumer protection or the internal market. We believe that the Nice Summit has left the public with the image of States which are excessively concerned about the distribution of internal power within the institutions and has led to serious doubts over the Council’s capacity and political will to reach the necessary agreements required by agricultural policy. These reforms must respond to the increasing demands of the European citizens, to the challenges of enlargement and to our commitments within the World Trade Organisation. Furthermore, we believe that following Nice the complex process of decision-making is becoming even more complicated, if that is possible, and this may paralyse the coming reforms of the CAP. We do not want this situation to endanger the guarantee of the European farm model which – we must not forget – is a fundamental element of the European social model. For all these reasons, we ask that the next Intergovernmental Conference consider the modification of the agricultural chapters of the Treaties in order to introduce co-decision. We sincerely believe that the new agricultural policy, based on the principles of multi-functionality and sustainability, requires and demands co-decision in order to achieve greater democratic legitimacy, greater transparency and also – of course – greater coherence in the agricultural policy which European society is demanding. – Mr President, the Socialist Group is pleased with this proposal because it is one step further towards simplifying agricultural policy and favours small-scale farmers. The proposal recognises that in many instances the administrative costs of managing and processing the aid do not match the amount of aid that these small-scale farmers receive. According to the Commission’s own data, 23.2% of farms receive direct payments of less than EUR 1 000, the amount set by the Commission as the maximum to be received under the simplified system. However, 48% of farms receive less than EUR 2 000 and, as has already been pointed out, there is a great deal of variation within the Member States. This indicates to us that if we want the simplified system to be effective, the maximum amount should be increased to EUR 1 500, as approved by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Moreover, we feel that it is unacceptable for any change to the management and payment system to be financially detrimental to those farmers with the lowest income capacity and who receive a lower percentage of aid. We therefore support the rapporteur’s proposal that single global payments, which are calculated on the basis of the actual payments received in previous years, should be increased by 20% to compensate for the increase in future payments outside the simplified scheme. This will prevent discrimination and the possible negative financial effects that this proposal could have on small-scale farmers. I wish this initiative, which seems to be an experimental one, every success in its implementation and I hope that the Commission will continue to put proposals to us that move forward in the sense of simplifying the system and the management of agricultural policy, which is essential for achieving greater transparency, bringing Community policy closer to the European people and helping them to understand it. Madam President, I must first congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. You will be aware, Commissioner, that on numerous occasions the European Parliament has expressed its institutional support for the nuts sector in the European Union. It has done so conscious of the fact that they are essentially a multifunctional crop which contributes to environmental conservation and helps combat erosion. It also has a part to play in regional planning, as it is one of the few activities keeping people on the land in places where other forms of agriculture are not viable. As most of the producer regions in the European Union are disadvantaged, it has economic and social significance too. We are not in a position to oppose the Commission’s proposal to extend these plans for improving aid to the sector. We certainly support the rapporteur’s view that it is not acceptable for the Commission to propose excluding producer organisations wishing to benefit from the improvement plans from eligibility for the specific hazelnut aid. We cannot either go along with the Commission’s intention of reducing Community cofinancing from 82 to 75% in these extended plans. Commissioner, we are bound to say that we would like our request for permanent support to this sector to go on record. Such a solution would provide stability and make it possible to produce the crop in Europe. This can only happen if we succeed in setting up permanent support targeted at producer organisations and within a stable framework, namely the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. The Commission should pursue this objective and approach during the extra year for which the plans will be extended. – Mr President, today we are debating a report which goes much further than the figures on alleged fraud or errors in the Community accounts. It demands that the Members of this Parliament act responsibly. We must address the lack of moral responsibility on the part of bureaucracies, which was condemned in such a masterly way by Kafka. This lack of moral responsibility is perversely able to involve people in a labyrinthine quest for their exact legal position and subject them to phantom judgements regarding unknown crimes. These situations have happily been overcome in Europe. The creation of an effective and transparent office to fight fraud is a task with which all Members of this Parliament agree, and I hope that all the institutions agree. The creation of an omnipotent mechanism, designed to pursue officials on the basis of secret denunciations, accusations and lists of suspects, riding roughshod over the individual guarantees, statutes and regulations which provide basic legal security for people working in the institutions, is a form of irresponsibility which this Parliament or any Community institution should have nothing to do with, because such a climate of suspicion would only benefit the eurosceptics. The Socialist Group, which is interested in combating fraud as well as protecting the rights of citizens, including officials, and the construction of a Europe based on the principles of fair play, democracy, proximity to the citizens, transparency, efficiency and solidarity, has presented an amendment to paragraph 29 of this report, which lays down the principle that combating fraud should not take precedence over the basic rights of officials. To demand lists of suspects, as suggested in the report, would be a form of McCarthyism which is beneath the dignity of this House and, furthermore, it may possibly be illegal. I would like to remind you that claims have been made that no action has been taken against this type of action and that OLAF’s monitoring committee, in relation to these appeals, is aware that certain aspects are not functioning properly within this body. While accepting that, with the dynamic of European construction, the increase in the budget and the growth of the administration, there may be more fraud and errors, we must not fall into a kind of policing paranoia, or at least this Parliament must not. The immunity which we enjoy as MEPs must not be confused with impunity. It is important that this report does not simply create a Kafkaesque type of system, but that it also provides a guarantee for officials. – Mr President, I would, first, like to congratulate Mrs Sandbæk on her report, which has achieved a broad consensus on a controversial issue. Reproductive health is one of the fundamental aspects of development and principally, but not solely, affects the developing countries. In those countries, pregnancies and births are the main cause of death and illness amongst women, as has been said previously. Therefore the Group of the European Socialist Party will undoubtedly support an active European Union policy on this issue which does not involve any moral stand, but rather a universal ethical imperative, human rights and development, and we therefore support the regulation being debated today. This regulation comes at a very appropriate time for the European Union to demonstrate its determination, when other large donors, such as the United States, are pushing for a reconsideration of the commitments made in 1994 at the Cairo Conference on Population and Development. That conference represented great progress, by correcting the political view of population which traditionally focussed on demographic objectives, and since then it has focussed on women’s rights. No less than 179 countries agreed to an action plan on this new basis. However, at the 5th Conference on the population of Asia and the Pacific, held in Bangkok in December, there was a desire to remove any reference to rights in the field of reproduction and services relating to genetic health in order to conserve United States aid, which refuses to fund organisations which promote family planning, including the United Nations Population Fund. In reality, in order to reassure those people who are fundamentally opposed to rights relating to genetic health, we must make it clear that family planning, information and access to reproductive health services prevent abortion and, if it is carried out, it is better that it happens under safe and hygienic conditions in order to prevent the 78 000 deaths per year caused by unsafe abortions. This report and this regulation do not deal with abortion, but the European Union’s contribution to social development, the population’s access to information, to contraceptives, to health care during pregnancy and birth and responsible sexuality. The European Union must be generous. Therefore the Group of the European Socialist Party will do all it can within the framework of the financial perspectives and in accordance with budgetary authority to increase the funding for this regulation. We will vote tomorrow in favour of the amendments relating to funding and against any other amendment that may affect the content of this report. – Mr President, I am very happy to hear that, in order to fulfil commitments, more resources and personnel are required. As Parliament is aware of this, we will offer our full support. However, I would like to ask a question, since I have not had time to study the document at length. What will happen to humanitarian aid? We understand that the Union’s policy of humanitarian aid does not end with simply granting it, but it has to continue – we talk in this context of a ‘continuum’ – so that development policies can be carried out. Otherwise, we may see a repetition of what is happening in Mozambique at the moment: clearly, humanitarian aid was removed, ECHO disappeared, development policy is no longer being implemented and therefore, violence may erupt once again. Within this ‘continuum’ I would like to know whether, as has been the case until now, ECHO will be an office dependent on the Commission, but whose action will be based on development policies aimed at what we want to see, and that is the eradication of poverty. –  Mr President, I can understand the Commissioner’s annoyance. It may be due to the late hour or to the fact that she is aware more funds are to be invested to see through the crash programme I referred to. I am certainly prepared to have a calmer discussion with the Commissioner. What I actually said was that I believe it is all well and good to resort to private funds, but public funds must be invested also, and that the Commission is prioritising private funds. I do not of course have any intention of going through the text article by article and line by line. I am however delighted to learn that the Commissioner is prepared to invest public funds and Union funds to help these developing countries. Of course I am aware that there are many corrupt governments in Africa and indeed elsewhere. What the people of those countries do not need, however, is for European companies to exploit their energy resources. Instead, Europe should support the public services to ensure those populations do have access to electricity and water. Both are central to the quality of life, and I was delighted to hear the Commissioner acknowledge this. –  Mr President, thank you for your reply. The question I posed, Question No 5, was very specific. As you are aware, the population of Western Sahara depends almost exclusively on the European Union aid provided through ECHO for its survival. My question was whether the Council will support the continuation of the humanitarian aid to the population of Western Sahara throughout the process you described. –  Mr President, I feel we can congratulate ourselves on the fact that 55 States have signed the Statute. However, some European States have still not done so. It is therefore crucial that we encourage them to sign up. Since 1995, this Parliament has been working towards the creation of this criminal court, and subsequently, in 1998, the Rome Conference very clearly stated the work that needed to be done to set it up. We are at the end of this process, but, perhaps, at this point, an effort must be made to get 60 signatories to the Statute. However, Mr President, I would also like to say to the Spanish Presidency that all this effort is only worth it if the end result is significant. In order for this to be an instrument of fundamental importance, we need a whole series of working and operating mechanisms. I would ask the Spanish Presidency, during whose term of office the Statute for the International Criminal Court will in all likelihood be approved, to put all its efforts into ensuring that the court will have the sufficient means to be able to function as it should. This has been Parliament’s concern since 1995: that this struggle for a future that is more just will be successful and that this International Criminal Court will take on the crucially important role that it should have in the future. – Madam President, the World Food Summit, which is to be held in Rome next month, is part of a series of meetings that are setting the parameters for contemporary international relations, but I do not think that this is just one more summit: the World Food Summit concerns the most important fundamental right, the right to life or survival, which regrettably, hundreds of millions of people are currently deprived of. Eradicating hunger and guaranteeing food security are essential conditions for development, but this development is hindered by malnutrition. Moreover, food security affects other aspects of development and of North-South relations, such as the sustainability of agriculture and world trade. For these reasons, the Socialist Group has worked particularly hard on this resolution and we have introduced the fundamental right to food security, the principle of food sovereignty and freedom of choice of agricultural and biological technologies, considering water and biodiversity as inalienable public property, the need for coherence among European policies, particularly among development and trade policies and the common agricultural policy, and the principle of proximity of production, processing and sale of food products, including food aid. By introducing these elements, we have managed to moderate both proactive tendencies and the zeal for liberalisation. We think that the Rome Summit should be a success that revitalises the objectives of the millennium, including reducing hunger and malnutrition by half by 2015, an objective on which we are behind, because as has been said it is decreasing at a rate of 6 million people per year when the figure should be 22 million per year. We would particularly like to draw the Commission’s attention to the fact that in September negotiations begin on the economic association agreements with the ACP countries, and to the absolute need for coherence between development policy and the position it takes within the WTO. There are six amendments to this resolution, all of which were tabled by my colleague Didier Rod, which we agree with and are going to support, and we are only going to leave voting free on Amendment No 5, which aims to introduce a new paragraph 14a. – Mr President, Commissioner, the report presented by Mr Dell'Alba refers to the winding up of one of the main financial instruments for Community aid to the private sector. The Socialist Group supports all cooperation measures which, like this one, help to make companies, and economies in general, more dynamic, by means of private initiative. The ECIP, whose projects are now coming to an end, has been particularly successful, as has been previously pointed out. According to the external evaluation it has been subjected to, the ECIP has demonstrated a significant multiplier effect, creating jobs and joint ventures. We now hope, Commissioner, that the future programme that will replace it will add better management to these positive effects. Nevertheless, we have to say that although we are happy with the successes of this programme, we Socialist members of the Committee on Development and Cooperation suggest that the main objective of any instrument for aid, including those in the private sector, must be to reduce poverty in those countries, which is ultimately the objective of these instruments. Wealth creation and the generation of jobs by means of companies financed through Community funds must benefit those populations in need. The application of these instruments must take account of the need to achieve labour, social and environmental standards, otherwise it could be said that these instruments do not aid development but rather constitute subsidies to individuals. We cannot say that in the evaluations control has always been exercised over the quality of aid via the ECIP. For example, when a bank is established in a beneficiary country by means of ECIP funds, how can we be sure that these funds are directed towards attracting investment and not simply to subsidising the presence of the bank in that country? As the rapporteur has said, it is a question of framing Community aid within a broad strategy which includes the private sector, which the Commission does not refer to in its plan for reforming aid policy, despite the fact that attracting private funds is necessary for the development of many countries. In this respect, we wish once again to repeat the question by Mr Dell'Alba to the Commission about its intentions relating to extending this instrument to the countries of sub-Saharan Africa, whose need for funds is also very great. In short, we hope that this experience of the ECIP, which has been very important for Latin America, will serve to improve the programme replacing it, which, we have noted, has no clear role in the Commission’s plan for reform. Coordination within the Commission is essential to improving the effectiveness of aid and, to this end, the different instruments must have one broad aim and one overall strategy. Mr President, it has already been said that, after a war which engulfed the country in misery, Mozambique is now facing a natural disaster of terrifying proportions. Although it is currently impossible to calculate how many people have died, we do know that around 80 000 are in imminent danger of drowning and 300 000 have lost their homes and crops. They urgently need aid such as food, water and shelter in order to survive. This immediate need will subsequently be replaced by a requirement for medicine to prevent epidemics, which have apparently already broken out, and aid for reconstruction. However, the aid needed now is difficult to get through, despite the efforts of the NGOs, because the roads, bridges and railway lines are damaged. Helicopters are therefore needed. Apparently there are only five at the moment to rescue about 80 000 people from trees. The machinery mobilising the aid is too slow. The PSE Group of this House has suggested that preventing natural disasters, including preventing conflicts, is the best way of avoiding situations like the one now being suffered by the people of Mozambique. I must remind you in particular of the efforts of Mr Rocard during the previous term. The European Commission responded in 1994 by setting up a disaster preparedness programme known as DIPECHO. This was intended to be proactive and, using a regional approach, to prevent disasters or at least to minimise their effects on the population. However, Africa is surprisingly not included in the DIPECHO plans. Mozambique, which is now suffering a foreseeable disaster, just as the famine now threatening in Ethiopia was foreseeable, is excluded from these plans. The DIPECHO agenda includes south-east Asia, Central America and the Caribbean. This is reasonable and we support this, but we have to ask the Commissioner, why not Africa? The PSE Group has always supported the Commission’s humanitarian aid policy. We have always supported ECHO, its policies and its actions, even some which have been disputed by certain bodies. We believe that solidarity must be the distinctive feature of the EU’s external action. In view of all this, we also believe the time has come to demand a redoubled effort by the Commission and the Member States, on behalf of those who are now drowning in Mozambique. The EUR 1 million which has so far been made available is completely inadequate in view of the needs which have been assessed by the Mozambican Government at 65 million dollars. The time has also come to demand greater efficiency. We hope that the debate at the beginning of this afternoon, the Commissioner’s knowledge of the situation in Mozambique and the visit by Mr Nielson will lead to a major effort being made by all sides to help Mozambique. – Mr President, the Johannesburg meeting – as has been said – is the third great summit aimed at creating an international strategy to combat poverty. The first was Monterrey, on development funding, with mediocre results, and the second was Rome, on food, which yielded no real results. The final opportunity is this Johannesburg meeting, on sustainable development, which, as well as achieving commitments on this issue, must translate into concrete measures what was done at the previous ones and, as the Commissioner has said, from a global point of view. There are therefore great hopes in this summit and above all the European Union has an enormous responsibility. To the failure of Rome we must add the revision of the objectives agreed in 1996, on halving world hunger by 2015. It has already been acknowledged that this objective is not going to be achieved since there is not the sufficient political will to make the necessary efforts. I hope that we will achieve some improvements during this Danish Presidency, given the sensitivity it has. We cannot afford more failures, above all the developing world, and this is a question of survival. We cannot hold summit after summit without results. We must therefore make very practical and realistic proposals which we want to communicate to the Commission and the Council: a code of conduct to guarantee food, based on the belief that food is a fundamental human right, and an emergency plan to deal with the famines and food shortages currently affecting 14 million people in Africa. These are practical measures in relation to which the Council and the Commission must achieve a worldwide commitment. I agree with the rest of the measures highlighted in the resolution, in particular the considerations of the Community budget and the EDF, greater coordination between bilateral and multilateral donors, the importance of microcredits and of the creation of an alliance against hunger and poverty. The fact that the Union and its Member States are the main donors of aid allows the European Union’s representatives to take the lead in making this summit a success, a success which is not merely something which this Parliament wants to see, but which is a commitment of the European Heads of State and Government in accordance with the conclusions of the Seville European Council. We fervently hope that the Union’s representatives will return from Johannesburg with concrete commitments and action plans and we will ask them to give us an account of the summit. I am very happy to hear that the Commissioner is going to present us with a very specific communication on an action plan to combat poverty. We anxiously await that communication. – Mr President, we have tabled an oral amendment which would mean adding to recital H: “Whereas the European Parliament nonetheless regrets that some participants have not agreed to join this agreement and invites all the Congolese parties to take responsibility and to respect the framework established in the Lusaka agreements and the United Nations resolutions”. This amendment reflects the idea that was expressed in the debate, on which I think there was a consensus among the other groups. It would mean copying everything that was said by the European Union about Sun City, as in the resolution only the first part was copied. – Mr President, Commissioner, I have been in Porto Alegre, the civil alternative to Davos, which was discussed earlier. It would be preferable not to have two opposing fora – one economic and one social, one governmental and one civil – each calling for completely different political orientations for the future. In Porto Alegre, local authorities, members of parliament, trade unions, non-governmental organisations, judges and teachers proposed – perhaps idealistically – that another world is possible, and not just possible, but necessary. In Davos, directors of multinational companies and ministers concluded that the key elements for the new world economic agenda are the real value of companies in view of the volatility of their share values, trade as a fundamental instrument for sustainable development and the principles to govern the activities of the multinationals. In other words, the distance between the citizens and the people with real power is only increasing. During these two minutes, I will just give a couple of examples: in Davos there were references to AIDS, but there was no reference to the need for pharmaceutical laboratories, whose investments in advertising and marketing are double their investments in research, to open up their patents to developing countries. Another example: it is considered that commerce is an important factor in development but there is no reference to reciprocity in the opening up of markets. The protectionism of the rich countries, including the European Union’s agricultural policy, has a negative impact on development. I believe, Commissioner, that Europe must be a model for reducing the distance between each position. The economic order promoted in Davos must be accompanied by a social and political order such as that called for in Porto Alegre. The participation of European parliamentarians in Porto Alegre is a good symptom, but the European Union’s partnership with citizens’ movements must go further. We urge the Community’s institutions to join in with global campaigns on access to water, agriculture, food safety and public services. We also ask the Commission to support the creation of a world fund to combat hunger and poverty. – Mr President, in paragraph 5, after “civil society”, the following paragraph should be added: “regrets that the opposition parties (UDP, FONUS, PALU and MNC/L), and the other parties and platforms representing civil society, have not signed the agreement of 19 April”. – Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for the exhaustive information he has provided me with this afternoon. In fact, the concern of this Parliament, and in particular the Committee on Development and Cooperation, is – given the current situation in Africa, essentially in its central regions (Uganda, Burundi, Rwanda, etc.), in terms of AIDS – how the Council, and of course the Commission, is going to control the fund of EUR 120 million which we approved in this House. Since you have told me that EUR 60 million has already been provided and that the first report is going to be carried out now, in April, from then on we will be very attentive to that control. –  Madam President, the Socialist Group accepts Mr Miranda’s proposal and we would vote in favour of the first part and against the second part. – The United Nations Conference on Racism is of particular relevance in these turbulent times, when there is bloodthirsty talk and behaviour in the name of a confrontation between civilisations. We are witnessing armed conflicts which originate in and are sustained by racial or ethnic conflicts and we are astonished to hear statements whose content and origin are unacceptable, on the superiority of certain civilisations over others. I would therefore like to congratulate the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Louis Michel, in particular, on his efforts which led to the final success of the Durban Conference, in which I participated on behalf of this Parliament. His actions clearly demonstrated the European Union’s firm position in relation to racism and xenophobic attitudes. Without ignoring the social, political and economic problems which lead to racial discrimination in Europe, I would like to focus on one aspect – the development perspective – which has been somewhat forgotten in the stagnation of recent events and also during the Conference, in relation to the Middle East conflict and the seriousness of the events taking place there, and to the recognition of the suffering caused by Europe’s history and the perversity of slavery and slave trading, the practice of which we today see as a crime against humanity. The majority of ethnic conflicts which involve thousands of victims and regrettable human situations take place in developing countries, mainly in Africa. I therefore believe that the success of this Conference will depend on whether we are today capable of realising everything that was contained in its final declaration. In this resolution, we ask the Commission for financial support for the administrations of the developing countries for the implementation of national action plans to eliminate all kinds of discrimination, as was agreed at Durban. Forums and observatories must be created, observatories in Africa, provincial observatories, regional observatories. We also ask for support for the United Nations so that it can carry out the monitoring of the results of Durban, so that the fight against racism may remain on the international agenda until it is eradicated. I believe that we must continue working so that the contents of the declaration may be implemented. Of course, the United States should not have abandoned the Conference, but it was not the first time that they have abandoned it, since they had abandoned it on other occasions; this was therefore not important. The important thing is that we in the European Parliament are able to clearly repeat our message with one voice, to journalists, to the media, against racism and in favour of equality and integration. – Madam President, the cases of stoning in the States of Northern Nigeria, based on the application of Sharia law by Islamic courts, are a flagrant violation of human rights which we must condemn with all our energy, as Mrs Karamanou has done very effectively this afternoon, on behalf of our European Parliament. Firstly because we cannot accept the death penalty and secondly because the application of Sharia law affects defenceless women, accused of actions, such as adultery, which cannot be considered crimes; and thirdly because, furthermore, in the case of Amina Lawal, she has not received the least legal guarantees during the trial. The case of Amina Lawal is dramatic and urgent because, following several postponements, the sentence is imminent: 25 March. But it is not the only case, Sarimu Mohamed, Safiya Hussaini, Bariya Ibrahima and Adama Yunusa have also been sentenced to prison following a series of international campaigns to prevent these stonings. In none of these cases have any of the men involved in the adultery been punished. The vulnerability of women under Islamic criminal law, torture and the degrading treatment they suffer represent an unacceptable violation of human rights and this should be reflected in the European Union’s relations with Nigeria and with any other country that applies the Sharia. Nigeria has one of the highest rates of illiteracy in the world. There are ritual mutilations, there are millions of people displaced for religious reasons and Islamic law is applied in certain States, clearly discriminating against a section of the population, and there is no reaction from the central government. The European Union, in accordance with the Treaties, which clearly lay down the principles governing our relations with third countries, and despite Nigerian oil, must use all its diplomatic powers to prevent the application of the death penalty imposed on Amina Lawal and condemn all the consequences of the possible stoning. More than a million and a half people have protested to the Nigerian authorities and, thanks to this popular action, other stonings have been prevented, but the issue at the moment is to save Amina Lawal and to this end Sharia law must be abolished and, where necessary, hunted down. –  Mr President, we are debating a report of around 200 pages which contains an exhaustive analysis of the structural operation of the Commission’s departments, and yet we have had only 48 hours in which to read it and give it our consideration. I think that, given the seriousness of the subject, it would have been preferable if the President of the Commission had made a statement on the document which we are expecting from Mr Kinnock, on institutional reform, and to wait for a report compiled by the competent body of this House, and then formulate Parliament’s position on the future functioning of the Commission. We could then have done this without the conditions which have led to the rushed inclusion of this report in the plenary part-session before we have even voted on the investiture of the Commission which will have to propose and apply the reform. Indeed, Mr President, in the great haste which seems to hold sway over us, the competent committee for the fund has been decided on even before we know what it contains. It is a great source of satisfaction for me – and I would like to make this known – to have heard the current Commissioner Manuel Marín refer today to the Commission’s future with the same honesty he displayed throughout his terms in office, and the same dignity with which he took on the problems of the previous College of Commissioners. I must also point out that it is the outgoing Commission which is presenting this document, bringing into the debate a Member of both Colleges, but we are not altogether sure in which of his two roles he is addressing us. The reasons we have found ourselves in this situation, a situation the Chairman of my group has been warning of since June, are to do with the fact that we have not been able to impose the limit for institutional responsibility on those groups who thought that the report’s contents could influence the investiture of the new Commission and who, for this reason, have insisted that it be debated now. They have underestimated this Parliament’s ability to implement independently the competences conferred on it by the Treaties, and this has brought about the present situation: the public has the impression that we are unable to comment on the future Commission since this report, as important as it is, and as knowledgeable as its authors may be, does not really determine our political standpoint. As spokesperson for the Socialist Group on the Committee on Development and Cooperation, I would like to make a few observations regarding the idea put forward in this report on the future functioning of the Commission. One of the mitigating circumstances in the Commission’s shortcomings, which is clear throughout the report, is the lack of resources that the Commission’s departments have in order to carry out the policies which we MEPs agree on in the area of cooperation in development and humanitarian aid, both of which fly the flag for Community action abroad. We cannot expect the Commission to have a growing, skilled, visible and efficient presence in the developing world if we do not provide it with the necessary means to achieve it. Some of the problems which afflicted the last Commission in this area of cooperation for development were sometimes due more to the imbalance between resources and aims than to poor administration. This is why I advocate – I believe with the consensus of the majority in this Parliament – that, in the future, together with our parliamentary requirements for efficiency, our generosity should also be realistic. We can start, as the budgetary authority, with the budget for the year 2000, which we have recently been debating in the Committee on Development and Cooperation. Mr President, I hope that this report will prove to be a useful contribution to the reform of the Commission’s functioning. Therefore, the Socialist Group is prepared to contribute – given the institutional responsibility that Parliament must hold – to an improved functioning of the Community institutions, both of Parliament and of the Commission, and to demand this of the Council. – Mr President, we in the Group of the Party of European Socialists have been genuinely pleased with the Commission’s initiative to define and strengthen the role of non-state actors, both European and from recipient countries, in the Community’s development policy. I would like to congratulate Mr Howitt, because his report was approved unanimously within the Committee on Development and Cooperation. Furthermore, he did significant work by means of a questionnaire aimed at ascertaining the situation with regard to the participation of NGOs. It is a fact that NGOs have had a decisive influence on the current configuration of a more open international society and on the democratisation of a system of international relations which until very recently was restricted to states and intergovernmental organisations. We believe that the active participation of NGOs in the implementation of the Community’s development policy represents the principal added value of European cooperation, since it provides a degree of effectiveness which development policies do not have when they are implemented solely within an intergovernmental context. Nevertheless, this is not a round trip, although there is no doubt about the need for development processes to be participatory if they are to be effective and sustainable. Only in a minority of cases do non-governmental organisations and civil organisations in the countries receiving aid participate in the creation and implementation of the development actions benefiting them. As Mr Howitt’s report points out, we will ask the Commission for data on the participation of non-state actors in the production of strategy documents by region and country. It should be pointed out that programmes and projects drawn up in this way are mainly financed by means of the EDF, to which, unfortunately, the non-state actors do not have direct access. The other source of funding, the decentralised cooperation line B7-6002, involves very small amounts – 3% of the amount provided for NGOs. The structuring of civil society, including companies, NGOs, local organisations and the like, is essential to development processes and cooperation relationships. We therefore trust that the Commission – despite the fact that it has expressed some reservations in relation to the report – will stipulate our requirements as soon as possible in this regard and respond to the commitment made with the international community by means of the millennium declaration – to which end the United Nations adopted an agenda for action which involves 1 300 non-governmental organisations – to create a mechanism for permanent consultation with non-state actors and improve open and integrated dialogue, which the rapporteur, Mr Howitt, calls participatory development. There must be permanent consultation with non-state actors in order to combat extreme poverty in the world. Mr President, I was extremely distressed by what Mr Deva said, since he insinuated that we were not fighting to eradicate poverty, but that we Spaniards had other kinds of interest. The truth is that I felt bad, and I would also feel bad if I did not say this here, since we are working together with the Committee on Development to eradicate poverty: to eradicate poverty in Asia and in Latin America. – Mr President, although we are approaching twelve o’clock we hope that this final report on development policy – which we are also trying to include within the reform – is not being treated as any less important, despite the fact that it is indeed the last report. I wish firstly to thank Commissioner Nielson for being here and for putting his commitment to this Parliament before certain other important engagements. The report by the Committee on Development and Cooperation, for which I am rapporteur, deals with the repercussions of the Commission reform on the effectiveness of relations between the European Union and developing countries. It is an initiative report, because the Commission has not seen fit to consult us in any other more official way, despite the fact that it has done so with regard to other aspects of the reform. At least as important as those which we have just debated is the issue of the RELEX reform, which is the one that will offer the world an idea of the scope of the changes in the Commission. On the basis of the Commission’s own diagnosis of the ineffectiveness of Community development policy, this report reaches different conclusions on how to remedy it. In our opinion, that is, the opinion of the Socialist Group and that of the whole of the Development Committee, the development policy is an essential policy within the framework of Community external action, which must respond to the problems of today’s world, of which the greatest and most dramatic is underdevelopment. This is an essential policy whose method of implementation must be modified in order to achieve the objective of eradicating poverty. These are the basic principles that we share with the Commission. Nevertheless, we believe that it has not been correct in its approach to the reform. The Commission maintains a division – albeit a somewhat blurred one – between political responsibility and executive competence, which past experience leads us to believe, will not work very well in practice. We believe that a cosmetic reform makes no sense in these times of profound change. Commissioner, surely you and your staff have asked yourselves the same questions as I have: Why not unify the cycle of cooperation? Why not allocate the competences for development in the developing countries to the Commissioner with responsibility for that area? It sounds absurd, but in fact what the Commission is proposing is absurd: that you take charge of implementing measures designed by others for certain countries considered to be developing, and of designing and implementing policies for the ACP countries. Reason and experience lead us in a different direction. Perhaps the direction we propose in this report, which does not question the division of competences in the College of Commissioners, simply applies it. The Commissioner for Development should have competence for development; the Commissioner for External Relations should have competence for political relations, and so on and so forth. We fear that the origin of the absurdity lies in the internal debate within the Commission regarding who is who. The problem is that the consequences of this will harm the effectiveness of development policy and, what is even more serious, those people who should be benefiting from it. We will see this next year when we are presented with the assessment we are asking for of the results of the reform. The assessment criteria will be the progress made in the eradication of poverty, in the complementarity of Member States’ policies, in the degree of coherence between Community policies, in the efficiency of project management, decision making and the simplification of procedures. These latter aspects particularly effect the NGOs. The NGOs, Commissioner, are one of the pillars of Community cooperation, providing added value for European development policy and great care must therefore be shown in taking them into account. The importance of the large multilateral organisations does not cancel out that of the small NGOs, and I am not going to expand on the role they play in development at local level because we are all aware of it, especially those populations that benefit from their action. We consider it to be essential that the hitherto fragile dialogue between the Commission and the committee for liaison with development NGOs be consolidated. We wish Commissioner Nielson the greatest success. We ask Commissioner Patten for the greatest generosity for the sake of the effectiveness of development policy, to which we are all committed and whose consequences are immeasurable in political and human terms, in both a positive and a negative sense. We demand from Commissioner Kinnock, who has just left, the greatest transparency in the management of the reform and the necessary efforts in the field of human resources. And we will call all of them to account. We remind the Member States that there is no place in European construction for temptations to renationalise; on the contrary, it is time to defend the European dimension of this policy by contributing to its rationalisation. Complementarity is one of the key elements for the success of the Community development policy and there should not be theological debate like the one in which subsidiarity has become bogged down.  Mr President, I will conclude by saying that we are going to approve two amendments and another three will not be approved, as has been discussed in committee. Mr President, I would like firstly to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Zimmerling, on his work, which has allowed us to reach a consensus on a good regulation on decentralised cooperation, which is necessary to the process of modernising Community development policy. And this consensus has been reached not just in Parliament, but at interinstitutional level, which means that, as soon as possible and for the next three years, we will have a renewed legal basis for implementing this policy. Decentralised cooperation, that is to say, the participation of non-state actors and sub-state bodies – both of the European countries and of the receiving countries – is a necessary condition for a participative development which responds to the needs and initiatives of the population to which cooperation is ultimately directed. It is an added factor in the democratisation of developing societies, since by means of decentralised cooperation the social fabric is strengthened, and it is also a proven element in the effectiveness of aid and a factor in making the concept of appropriation of development processes a reality. Development cooperation ceased some time ago to be solely bilateral or multilateral and governmental or non-governmental. The Group of the Party of European Socialists therefore enthusiastically supports increasingly improved decentralised cooperation. Let us accept therefore that – from the point of view of sustainable and participative local development – neither those people in Europe who believe that this approach may be used to encourage movements outside of the States nor the authorities of the receiving countries who are afraid of losing control over the aid which they consider to be their own are right. Decentralised cooperation looks more towards the actors than towards economic resources or the sectoral contents of cooperation. With regard to economic resources – mentioned by the rapporteur – we have given up our initial desire for greater allocation of funds for the sake of the interinstitutional agreement, but we have a commitment from the Commission to maintain adequate execution of the programme and we believe, however, that the decentralised cooperation line must continue to increase and not be a minor budget line from which funds can be taken in order to fill other gaps. At the moment we have EUR 9 million for the first year and EUR 6 million for the two following years in line B7-6002, without prejudice to the fact that resources from geographical lines can benefit decentralised cooperation actions. We do not believe this to be satisfactory – we would like to have more – but, for the sake of consensus, we can reach this agreement. Since we are talking about a transversal line, it has no sectoral limits and we in the Group of the Party of European Socialists have tried to open it up to the greatest possible number of beneficiaries, so that social organisation is effectively promoted. It is made explicit that local public powers are also considered municipal authorities and we are happy with the extension of the Regulation and the modifications which have been introduced, bearing in mind the references to the Gemelli, Carrilho and Howitt reports and we hope that the Commission will henceforth comply with the time periods for assessment and presentation of results established by Parliament so that we can analyse the effectiveness of this instrument in terms of development. –  Mr President, I am pleased that we finally have European legislation, in the form of a regulation, on anti-personnel landmines and that today we have a good report on the subject by Mrs Bonino. In the previous term of office – as we have heard – the European Parliament approved the commitment by the European Union to fight against one of the cruellest, most lethal, most cowardly weapons in existence. The Committee on Development and Cooperation – as Mr Patten has said – introduced a budget line in 1996 dedicated to de-mining. However, this heading line nonetheless unfortunately decreasing in inverse proportion to the emphasis we are placing on this matter here. Given that we are now approving the budget, I will linger a moment over the figures that worry me. This year the figure was EUR 8,100,000. For the coming year, the Council and the Commission have agreed to reduce the total to EUR 7,400,000 and Parliament proposes an increase of EUR 3 million compared with the year 2000. These figures are not much to solve a problem that affects 110 million people in 64 countries, 26,000 victims of mutilations every year and, vitally, the many children who are described in countries such as El Salvador as the broken children, as these children are maimed, missing their hands, arms or legs. I therefore ask that the importance of increasing this amount be conveyed to the Council, which is not represented here, and to the Commission, given that unfortunately, for each mine that is cleared, between 20 and 50 others are laid. At the current de-mining rate it would – as was mentioned earlier – take well over 100 years to clear the planet of anti-personnel landmines. I therefore ask that, although it is not enough, account be taken of the amount proposed by Parliament and that it should contribute to respecting the Ottawa Convention and I ask those countries that have not signed it or ratified it to do so. – Mr President, I have listened with interest to both the Council and the Commission. The Socialist Group considers that the debt which blights the development of the world’s poorest countries cannot be dealt with in isolation, as a purely financial problem, but it must be dealt with within the framework of a broad and coherent strategy which, through the eradication of poverty, leads to development. To this end, firstly, the cancellation of debt must not involve the removal of other sources of finance, but cancellation must be one more measure in a coherent development policy. Secondly, the funds made available through the cancellation of debt must be used for human development funds, particularly for investment in health and education. I do not agree with the Council when it says that this may mean a new form of colonisation. I do not believe that to be the case. In order to be effective, in development terms, the cancellation of debt also requires, as we request in the resolution, a global strategy implemented in unison in and by the international financial institutions. The European Union, as a major contributor of development aid, must coordinate its action in this regard and make the elimination of poverty the common objective of its Member States, one aspect of this being the cancellation of debt in the poorest countries. This is therefore an example of the need for coherence and coordination between Community policies. The common foreign and security policy, which we too often treat as just a security policy, must address this issue as well as commercial and development policies. The highly-indebted poor countries, who are the beneficiaries of this debt cancellation strategy that has already been adopted by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, must commit themselves to suitable macroeconomic policies, to social development objectives, to increase the credibility of the state, which is the only way to attract foreign investment, and to strengthen their institutional capacity. By uniting the actions of debtors and creditors in a global strategy aimed at the elimination of poverty, it is possible that we will achieve objective 15 of the Copenhagen Summit on social development, which is an objective which we fully identify with. We therefore strongly urge all Member States and the Commission to support the international financial institutions’ HIPC initiative for highly indebted poor countries. – Mr President, I would like to inform you that last week, the intergroup for friendship and solidarity with the Cuban people visited Cuba, and the visit was very positive for relations between this Parliament and Cuba, as well as between the European Union and Cuba. This intergroup, made up of seven Members of Parliament, four from the Group of the European Socialist Party, two from the GUE/NGL Group and one from the ELDR Group, had a mandate from President Cox to try to secure Oswaldo Payá's exit from Cuba and thereby present him with the award in one hour’s time. I would like to say to you that, as I said to Mr Cox’s secretary on the telephone, on returning from Cuba on Saturday at 1 p.m., Mrs Isabel Allende, Cuban Ambassador in Spain, was waiting for us; the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Felipe Roque, called us personally to say that, thanks to the efforts of the intergroup, they would allow Mr Payá to leave, in view of the friendly relations they have and wish to have with Parliament. As you know, the attempts by the Council had not been successful, and nor had those of the President of the Christian Democrat and People’s Parties International. I would therefore like you to personally communicate to Mr Cox that our efforts yielded positive results. – Mr President, this report has been approved unanimously by the Committee on Development and Co-operation, and, wisely, with the two amendments tabled by the Committee on Budgets, so that, rather than just words, we will actually have an economic and financial plan. The report has been prepared by Mrs Morgantini, and concerns the signature by the Commission of a Convention with the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees. The achievement of a just peace in the Middle East, which we advocate in the Socialist Group, is only possible if, together with the negotiations on the items on the peace agenda in this complex conflict, the problem of the refugees is resolved. One of the issues to be dealt with in relation to this problem, which is a necessary one although not the only one, is aid for the refugees, without prejudice to the achievement of a permanent solution within the framework of the peace negotiations which goes further than the therapy of aid. The role of the European Union in aid to Palestine is undeniable. And, in this respect, the communication of the Commission, which has given rise to this report, simply continues our coherent approach to our contribution to peace by means of the said aid. This should not be an obstacle to the European Union’s, and in particular Parliament’s, more direct participation in the peace process. The problem of the refugees, together with the status of Jerusalem, the problems of water and the settlers, is one of the key factors relating to peace in the Middle East. Every effort should be made if we want to reach a satisfactory agreement on the refugees and thereby bring peace closer. Between the extreme positions, which demand the recognition of the right to return, ignoring the real problems which, in reality, would be caused by the mass return of refugees and the uncompromising positions, which do not even accept that the problem exists, there are intermediate options which should be studied, developed and implemented. One of these options is this report. Although we know it is not a definitive solution, we must approve this report as one more European Union contribution to the difficult peace process in the Middle East. –  Mr President, we wish to table an oral amendment to the fourth indent. The wording of the Spanish text currently refers to when action is taken with a view to appropriating natural resources illegally. We wish this to be replaced with a text along the following lines: including action taken to appropriate such resources illegally. –  I am sorry for what has happened, because I heard, or I think I heard the Commissioner say that he will keep up the dialogue and continue to regard NGOs as important, but in this context I should like to ask the following question: clearly, Commissioner, we as Members of Parliament, and specifically the Socialist Group, are not going to uphold or overlook the possible bad management by the NGO Liaison Committee (CLONG), but we do think that the political principle of dialogue with the NGOs is very important, and a large proportion of these NGOs is represented by the CLONG. Therefore, we understand that the solution that may be presented is not in proportion to the seriousness of the irregularities that the CLONG administration may have committed, and that if a way out of the current situation is not found the NGO Liaison Committee may close. The question is, therefore: does the Commissioner foresee a way out of the financial situation without precluding the fact that the Commission should then negotiate a restructuring or new way in which the NGOs must work and how they must coordinate themselves? – Mr President, the reason for this resolution has already been explained: in Equatorial Guinea, the political and social situation is still extremely serious. Firstly, no steps have been taken to establish a constitutional state based on a multi-party democracy which fully respects human rights. Secondly, the population endures harsh conditions of poverty. The government of President Teodoro Obiang has failed to comply with each and every promise of democratisation which it made to the international community. The leaders and activists of the opposition parties face constant persecution, in the form of arbitrary arrest and sometimes torture. Of course, they have no access to the media and they have to face corrupt electoral processes, in which transparency and fair play are totally absent. With regard to the municipal elections of 28 May, there are grounds for concern, because to date there has been no guarantee of any democratic conditions for these elections. We are therefore concerned and we ask that efforts be made to observe how the elections are carried out. Guinea is sinking further and further into under-development. Paradoxically, its income, which comes from oil, is increasing, but none of it reaches the inhabitants, being entirely purloined by the ruling classes. Given this situation, as the resolution we have presented indicates, we demand that the government of Equatorial Guinea initiate a genuine transition to democracy, which we believe could begin by making these municipal elections free elections. The Union must exert pressure in this respect, and not lower its guard or accept any more false promises from President Obiang. Therefore, if the municipal elections take place in the current circumstances, with no form of guarantee, we must not resume any cooperation with Guinea, apart from purely humanitarian cooperation. Article 5 of the Lomé Convention obliges the Union and the Member States to demand democracy and human rights in Equatorial Guinea. We therefore believe that this House should follow that line. –  Thank you, Mr Vitorino, because I understand that the Commission intends to submit proposals. I should like to say that, in the last decade of the century that has just finished, both the Vienna Conference and subsequently the Beijing Conference opened up new horizons so that we can bear in mind the very real situation in which women suffer in numerous countries, but I believe the Commissioner understands the question Mrs Izquierdo has raised and I am grateful that he is to make this kind of proposal. Mr President, Commissioner, when in 1988 the European Parliament, acting as a budgetary authority, managed to have the funds intended for cooperation with Latin American and Asia allocated to separate budget lines, a decisive step was taken in the regionalisation of Community external relations; an approach which has been consolidated as the one most in line with the idea of functionality and specificity which governs Community policy and as the most effective in terms of development. Now, in accordance with its legislative competences, it falls to this Parliament to gives its opinion on the modification of the ALA Regulation which covers cooperation with both regions jointly. In accordance with this approach, an example of which is Parliament's unanimous vote for the Salafranca report on a global partnership with Latin America, in the Committee on Development and Cooperation, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy and in the delegations for Central America and Mercosur, we have given our support by a huge majority in favour of the existence of two differentiated regulations: one for Asia and another for Latin America. Tomorrow there will be a vote which is as historic and significant to both regions and Europe as the one which led to the division of the budget lines. The Socialist Group supports the existence of two differentiated regulations out of coherence with a long journey which is now culminating; because we believe that Latin America and Asia deserve to be treated at least equally with the other developing regions and, in this regard, both political representatives and representatives of civil society of the two regions have demonstrated to us their desire for their own regulations and programmes; because we are convinced that the benefits for the populations of both regions, the ultimate objective of the regulations, will be much greater than the administrative difficulties the Commission is afraid of at the end of the day, these difficulties will be limited to a healthy division into two of the current ALA Committee and a reallocation of staff; and finally, because we profoundly respect our own legislative capacity. The political message we are sending to the populations of Asia and Latin America by means of these two regulations is particularly encouraging at this time of enlargement, of European expansion towards the East and of reduction of cooperation funds in order to deal with other situations, which are perhaps more urgent but no more necessary. Finally, Mr President, I would like to point out that the amendments to the content of the regulations, on which I warmly congratulate Mrs Sanders-ten Holte and the secretariat of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, will considerably improve the quality of our contribution to the fight against poverty and will consolidate the political messages sent in regions between the European Union and Latin America and the importance of strengthening the European Union's actions on the continent of Asia. – Mr President, Commissioner, I thought your Communication was interesting and I would like to ask you two questions. This initiative for partnership between the Commission and United Nations bodies is important, in my opinion, as long as it is not detrimental to European development and humanitarian aid policies, the design and implementation of which are subject to the democratic control of this House. I would therefore urge you that it should not be limited to giving or supplying funds or delegating responsibilities to a bigger partner, but that this responsibility should also be monitored. My second question refers to the identity of Community aid, which is one of our fundamental pillars and which is focused on the non-governmental sector. I would like this aid to continue, and in this respect I am concerned about the relationship that NGOs often have with United Nations bodies. How will this continue to be organised or coordinated? Mr President, I would like to express my astonishment at the opinion expressed by the rapporteur, Mrs Sanders-ten Holte, because although it is true that everybody exercises their votes as they can, as they wish or as they see fit, this report for which she has been rapporteur has been the subject of much debate in our Committee on Development and Cooperation, and the vote today has been very clear; therefore, I believe her proposal that we must seek a solution to be inappropriate. I believe that the solution has been expressed by this Parliament, through very clear votes, in favour of there being two separate regulations to eradicate poverty in Asia and in Latin America. – Mr President, I should first like to congratulate Mr Wijkman and the members of the Committee on Development and Cooperation for their useful input. An important report has been developed and improved insofar as development cooperation has been updated and extended to a domain that tended until recently to be governed by free market principles. From the global perspective in which the Group of the Party of European Socialists approaches the notions of development and cooperation, energy should be seen as a cross-cutting issue in cooperation actions. This is because it is a key aspect of sustainable development. The energy currently used in both developing and industrialised countries is polluting and environmentally destructive. Substantial resources will be needed to remedy the situation, however. The renewable and alternative sources of energy we advocate are expensive. The Commission must make available the resources required to finance access to renewable energies for developing countries. It would then be possible to integrate the environmental dimension into the development process, and it would not remain a pious declaration of intent. As Mr Wijkman stated earlier this evening, energy accounts for less than 5% of Community development aid. Public sector involvement in the energy sector is called for. I should emphasise that public investment is also needed, without prejudice to the involvement of private companies in the production and distribution of energy. Access to the latter should be guaranteed by the public sector as an essential service. In this connection, we cannot endorse the Commission’s decision that priority should be given to promotion of the privatisation of the sector. It should be complementary to public action. Private exploitation of energy sources does not help to alleviate poverty. There are some appalling poverty indicators for African countries that export energy resources such as fossil fuels exploited by private companies. Very often these companies are European. It should be stated that these populations do not have access to electricity, lighting or water. They do not benefit from other more sophisticated uses of energy either. Financial support is therefore needed. The Commission itself does actually recognise the link between poverty, environmental degradation and energy. The Commissioner referred to this today. Nonetheless, the Commission fails to make bold environmentally-sustainable proposals. We therefore welcome this initiative to work together with developing countries regarding energy. Nonetheless, we regret the lack of a crash programme with additional funding and a proposal that would serve as a legal basis for the action required on this important issue. Mr President, we are about to debate a resolution on Burundi. I think it is useful to recall the background to the current situation in that country. It is now ten years since the murder of Mr Ndadaye, its first democratically elected President. Since then, Burundi has been ravaged by civil war. The war amounted to a confrontation between ethnic groups. Sadly, it resulted in almost 300 000 deaths. A peace process is currently under way. Initially, this was led by the President of Tanzania, Julius Nyerere, and later by Mr Mandela. The terms of the process provide for a cessation of armed conflict. This was to be followed by the various stages of an electoral process and transition to democracy. An equitable power sharing system was to be established, together with a rotating Presidency passing from Hutus to Tutsis every 18 months. All these arrangements are contained in the August 2000 Arusha Peace Agreement which resulted in the present transitional government. A delegation from the Committee on Development and Cooperation visited Burundi between 22 and 27 June of last year. On 9 July 2003 the President of Burundi appeared before the Committee on Development and Cooperation. On 8 October an agreement on effective implementation of the cease-fire was reached between the Government and the main faction of the so-called Forces for the Defence of Democracy led by Pierre Nkurunziza. Unfortunately, armed confrontations between groups such as the FDD and the FNL have continued. The African Union has dispatched the African Mission In Burundi peace-keeping force known as the AMIB. It consists of 3 000 soldiers from Ethiopia, South Africa and Mozambique. The force is tasked with assisting in the disarmament and demobilisation of rebel soldiers and with their reintegration back into society. In addition, if peace is maintained, it should be easier to for humanitarian aid supplies to reach displaced persons and the population in war-torn areas. The last of the AMIB soldiers arrived in Burundi last Sunday. The force is financed by the United States, France, the United Kingdom and Mozambique. Nonetheless, there appear to be financial difficulties over keeping it in the field. At the same time, the problems in the south of Kivu are ongoing. Confrontations are still taking place and they represent a threat to peace in the region. The European Union suspended aid to Burundi in January 1997. Aid was reinstated, however, following the response to the peace negotiations. EUR 48 million was granted for a rehabilitation programme aimed mainly at supporting the return of displaced persons and demobilisation. The programme also aimed to facilitate justice and reconciliation. In addition, institutional support amounting to EUR 2 million was awarded to the Ministry of Economy. A further EUR 150 million was allocated at the Paris Conference in 2001. This included an ECHO programme for the return of Burundian refugees from Tanzania supported by UNHCR. European Union funds amounting to EUR 285 million are currently available to Burundi. Additional funds will be allocated under the ninth EDF. We would like this resolution to serve as a reminder to the authorities in Burundi that they need to involve women in the peace process. We believe women have an important part to play in the latter. We also encourage neighbouring countries to support the peace process in Burundi. Finally, we hope to be able to rejoice that peace has come about in this small country in central Africa. – Mr President, although we cannot take away the torture to which the political opponents who were tried without any guarantees in Equatorial Guinea were subjected to, the country should void the trial, its results and the measures adopted during it, such as the suppression of the bar association, if it wants to be part of the association with the European Union. Freeing those convicted and the members of their families and restoring the bar association should be demands from the European Parliament. With this legal sham, the regime in Equatorial Guinea has surpassed all the limits that can be allowed for a signatory of the Cotonou Agreement, as Miguel Angel Martínez said, which is not only an agreement for economic cooperation, but also for political dialogue. Equatorial Guinea has already committed itself internally with the European Union and with the whole of the international community, as a signatory of the Convention against Torture, to begin the transition to democracy, in other words, to hold free elections in a context of respect for human rights. Failing to comply with that international obligation gives rise to sanctions that we request from the Commission and the EU-ACP Council of Ministers as part of the Cotonou Agreement. In this sense, democratic conditionality, used in a constructive manner, is a key tool in the European Union’s development policy. The Socialist Group will join with its African colleagues in a detailed debate on this in the next ACP-EU Joint Assembly. –  Mr President, we in the European Union must support any action leading to the abolition of the death penalty. The abolitionists, who have met in Strasbourg at the first world conference against the death penalty, can count – and know they can count – on our full and active support. A European day against the death penalty – as Mr Méndez de Vigo was saying, and I agree with him – is a good idea, but it is not enough. We must also encourage the Community institutions and the European Union Member States to take our belief to its ultimate consequences – our belief, which without any doubt is reflected in all our legal systems, that the death penalty is against the law and is just as bad as other historical monstrosities, such as slavery. The European Union should, therefore, as we request in the resolution, consider the abolition of the death penalty to be an essential aspect of its relations with third countries, and consequently this should be reflected in the conclusions of international agreements, aid programmes and trade relations. Since Mr Van den Berg has already done so, I do not wish to mention such aberrations as the execution of minors or the physically disabled, nor to talk about cases of innocent people condemned to death. I shall not go into the figures, either – because what Mr Dupuis has just said is true – and in any case I think they are irrelevant: a single case is itself a monstrosity. The abolition of the death penalty is an elementary principle in the state of civilisation in which we now find ourselves, and nobody should be deprived of their life by a court sentence. I therefore support both this resolution and the European day against the death penalty, but I believe we still have to go a little further in all our work to achieve the abolition of the death penalty. – Mr President—in-Office of the Council, the problem you have raised in the reply to my question satisfied me only in part. That is because, unfortunately, over the last ten years – as you well know – specifically in Ciudad Juárez, more than 320 bodies of women and girls have appeared. Furthermore, more than 4 470 women and girls of between 14 and 16 years old have disappeared. I would therefore like, in addition to the action the Council is going to take with Mexico in relation to the Agreement, to see an examination of what specific actions – since we are not talking about a violation of human rights in general, but a very specific case which involves the disappearances and deaths of many women and girls, specifically in Ciudad Juárez – have been taken by Mexico to try to verify these facts, and, on the other hand, whether it is possible, and whether the Council will allow it, to consider what assistance is being requested by the authorities of that country so that the international community may contribute to clarifying these facts, which are very serious. Mr President, firstly, from a conceptual point of view, we legitimately wish the new nomenclature for the Budget to be a technical instrument which rationalises it, and not a cunning way to modify the political orientations of Community action. The Committee on Development and Cooperation is therefore, under the heading ‘Development’, restoring the cooperation lines with Asia and Latin America, which had been diverted to the external relations heading. Development policy is not only directed towards the ACP countries, but towards all developing countries with a view to eradicating poverty. Furthermore, Commissioner, we thank you and we congratulate and support you, as well as Mr Nielson, in relation to the budgeting of the EDF. Secondly, our policy for assisting certain groups such as the Saharan people, who for years have been objectively in a situation of humanitarian need, should not be called into question for administrative reasons. And finally, the integration of the gender perspective into the Budget is one of our objectives. With regard to the figures, our priorities are the funding of actions to promote children's rights, funds for combating AIDS and malaria, increasing funds for Latin America and the Mediterranean: between the 2000 Budget and the draft 2004 Budget the funds intended for cooperation with these regions have plummeted; they have been reduced by 10.8% for Latin America (EUR 37.2 million) and 16% for MEDA in real terms (EUR 193.9 million), despite the new priorities for these two regions and the summit which is going to take place. Their reflection in the Budget should not conflict with the ceiling corresponding to us, provided that there is no intention to fund any other new action or initiative through development funds. And it is for this reason that we are also concerned about the reconstruction of Iraq or any other issue which may arise. – Mr President, thank you for your efforts and I would like to reflect what has been said by my fellow Members, in particular Mr Medina, since we are talking about two Spanish journalists. I would like to say that the seriousness of this issue does not stem simply from the fact that it involves journalists, and that to target them is an attack on the freedom of information to the whole world, but that what we have seen is an attack aimed at a non-military building, a civilian building, the Palestine hotel, where the journalists were based. This has been seen in all the media and means that there may have been a violation of the Geneva Convention. I would therefore ask you to continue to deal with this issue, because I believe it is very serious. We are not talking about actions against military targets, but very clearly against civilian buildings. We should not forget that very many Iraqis are also suffering, but in this case we have been able to see a cannon aimed directly at the Palestine hotel. –  Madam President, Parliament has long been concerned about the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Great Lakes Region in Africa in general. Fortunately, armed conflict in the region has ended. It is now time to launch the process of reconstruction. The future of the Democratic Republic of Congo and peace in that country depend on establishing democracy and sustainable development. As regards establishing democracy, we trust the Pretoria Agreement will prove an effective measure and will be implemented in sensible stages. The Pretoria Agreement is truly an all-encompassing and inclusive agreement. An all-embracing system of democracy can only be established if all associations and political groupings are included in the process. This is especially important in the Great Lakes Region where a breakdown in social order was the root cause of the wars that laid waste to the region. I welcome the meeting of the General Affairs Council held in Brussels yesterday and also the Commission’s decision to send a significant amount of humanitarian aid to the worst affected areas. A number of major problems are still outstanding, however. They must be resolved to assure the future of the region. Such problems can only be tackled through sound political institutions, once implementation of the agreement is under way. The major problem I have in mind is that of a system of justice. Impunity is incompatible with democracy and there can be no peace without a system of justice. In this connection, I would like to table an amendment to indent 4 tomorrow. I would like to replace the phrase referring to other places, when these acts have been committed with one referring to other places, including the acts committed. The other element crucial to the future of the Democratic Republic of Congo is sustainable development. The countries and the companies of the European Union have a key role to play in this process. Companies can play their part by adopting an ethical code of conduct demonstrating commitment to sustainable development. Countries can be involved by establishing measures to limit the importation of goods of dubious origin. The Group of the Party of European Socialists will relentlessly pursue its campaign demanding transparency and ethical standards from multinational companies in the developing world. In this regard, we attach great importance to compliance with rules on child labour, the ILO labour standards, the sustainable exploitation of resources and the OECD’s guidelines on multinational companies. The United Nations report adopts a clear stance on the illegal exploitation of natural resources in the Democratic Republic of Congo. We hope Member States, the Commission and Parliament will all insist on implementation of the report’s recommendations. – Mr President, the will of the Commission in response to the orientations of the European Council to establish a global and integrated policy of migrations is very laudable, but the police and Interior Ministry approach, which can be gathered from the communication, clashes directly with this Parliament’s view of the relations the European Union must maintain with the developing countries, whose immigrants, by the way – and according to the Commission itself – are not a problem from a quantitative point of view. As the Commission itself points out, more than 90% of the world’s immigrants live and work outside the European Union, close to their countries of origin. At the time of the Seville European Council, we warned of the danger of making cooperation for development conditional upon the control of immigration on the part of the countries in which it is generated. Development cooperation is not an instrument for resolving the internal problems of the donors of aid, but a tool for fighting poverty. The origins of migration, whether legal or not, lie in poverty, political repression and armed conflicts. These are the causes which must be combated through development cooperation, rather than using it to repress their effects. This Commission's desire to integrate European immigration policy is a wonderful opportunity to ensure that, instead of spending development funds on monitoring borders and the forced repatriation of immigrants, they are assigned to more constructive activities in accordance with the principle of combating poverty which governs European cooperation policy. It is a question of co-development or, in other words, contributing to the development of the areas of origin of immigrants, so that they can return with hope for the future. In this way, the Commission would be acting coherently with itself, since it states, in the communication we are debating today, that it is aware that the European Union’s relations with the developing countries must be based on solidarity. Article 13 of the Cotonou Agreement on readmission led to problems and protests. Therefore, we say yes to negotiated readmission within the framework of global development programmes, but no to forced repatriation, especially when this is paid for from development funds. We will be vigilant in order to prevent, by means of the reallocation of the scant resources in category 4, any modification of the development priorities established by this Parliament, especially given that the Commission’s report demonstrates the concern at the lack of money available for resolving this problem. – Mr President, the Inter-Congolese dialogue has not finished. Its false closure in Sun City (South Africa) with a partial agreement means that clashes and, in the extreme, massacres such as that in Kisangani, are continuing. The human tragedy is currently in Kisangani, Kivu and Bunia, but the fundamental political problem has lain for 40 years in the illegitimacy of the governments and institutions of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as Mrs Maes said. Only an honest democratic transition process, involving all of the opposition parties, will lead to peace and national sovereignty. The Socialist Group condemns the Kisangani massacre and the presence of various foreign troops in the DRC, and supports the efforts for peace by Masire, Ajello and Monuc in order, respectively, to re-open integrated dialogue and to demilitarise the areas of the Congo occupied by armed groups and regular troops from the neighbouring countries. With this in mind, we propose the following oral amendments to the compromise text: 1. Adding the following paragraph to recital H, which is in line with the declaration of the Council of the European Union on Sun City. "Whereas the European Parliament nonetheless regrets that some participants have not agreed to join this agreement and invites all the Congolese parties to take responsibility and to respect the framework established in the Lusaka agreements and the United Nations resolutions". This addition covers everything that the European Union said about Sun City. Only quoting the first part would give a biased idea of the European Union’s positions, which we do, of course, support. 2. Adding the following paragraph to paragraph 5 of the resolution, after “civil society”: “Regrets that the opposition parties (UDPS, FONUS, PALU and MNC/L), and other parties and platforms representing civil society, have not signed the agreement of 19 April”. Paragraph 5 would therefore read as follows: “Welcomes the political agreement on the consensus for transition in the DRC signed on 19 April 2002 by the Government of the DRC, the MLC of Jean Pierre Bemba, the RDC-ML, the RDC-N and other delegates of the unarmed opposition and civil society; regrets that the opposition parties (UDPS, FONUS, PALU and MNCL), and other parties and platforms representing civil society have not signed the Agreement of 19 April and supports the efforts of the special representative of the European Union to move forward the Alliance for the Protection of the Inter-Congolese dialogue, which includes the RCD-Goma and five unarmed opposition parties to this agreement”. The Socialist Group will vote against recital E, because we do not believe that, in the current political conditions in the DRC, it can be said that the population of Kisangani, or of any other province, has democratically expressed itself. The date of the Sun City Agreement also needs to be corrected in the text, as it took place on 19 April and not on 19 May, as incorrectly featured in the resolution. In a conflict as complex as that in the Congo, in which there are so many spurious interests in play, the role of the European Parliament should be one of conciliation and integration, of ensuring, as far as possible, that real democracy is established rather than mock democracy. – Madam President, the disregard for democracy that the authorities of Equatorial Guinea have been displaying for years reached its peak during the recent elections in December. The result of 97% of votes in favour of the Government was reached without counting votes, with a dubious census, with the opposition leaders in prison and without freedom of expression throughout the campaign, and with no freedom to vote in secret on election day, when the voting tables were presided over by the military. Elections from which, in the face of so much disaster and outrage, the opposition parties withdrew. In short, fraudulent and invalid elections, the results of which should not be recognised by the international community, with the European Union taking the lead. Madam President, recalling that this is the fifth European Parliament resolution on human rights in Guinea, and taking into account the statement made by the Presidency of the Union on the elections in Guinea, the Socialist Group asks the institutions of the European Union to use every means possible to ensure that a peaceful transmission to democracy is initiated in Equatorial Guinea, that political prisoners are immediately released and that the international commitments made by President Obiang are complied with. Madam President, we attach a great deal of importance to paragraph 7 of our Joint Resolution, which states ‘Asks the Commission to draw up a report on the impact on democracy and human rights of the policies of the oil companies operating in Equatorial Guinea’. We are talking about a country that has oil, the income from which goes to President Obiang, his family and friends, but not to the population of Guinea. One third of the population has a life expectancy of 40 years and 57% do not have access to drinking water. Therefore, Madam President, perhaps we need to promote, in the United Nations Security Council, an embargo on Guinean oil and, perhaps, now that there are four Member States of the European Union that are part of the Security Council, one of its agreed actions could be monitoring the democratisation processes in a series of countries and promoting appropriate measures in order to encourage the necessary changes, in accordance with the priorities stated by the European Union. We need to say ‘that is enough’ to the countries in which only a minority benefits from the resources while the rest of the population continues to live in poverty. Therefore, Madam President, we consider that this Resolution is very good and positive in terms of achieving something that is among the priorities for Parliament and the European Union. –  Mr President, the question actually referred to illegal immigration but, in this context, I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he sees that immigration is the other side of the coin of development and whether he understands that we are talking about many illegal immigrants who come from Morocco and from throughout northern Africa. How can we accept the contradiction that the MEDA Programme has been shrinking in the current three-year period and that the reduction in the preliminary draft budget for 2003 is quite drastic – 470% less in real terms? Does the Commissioner not see that this is crazy and that in order to combat this illegal immigration we have to undertake development programmes on the other side of the Mediterranean? –  Mr President, capacity-building in developing countries is one of the new concepts underpinning the current cooperation policy, based on the appropriation of development processes by societies receiving aid. It is an endogenic process, by means of which a society increases its social capital, through the activities of individuals, organisations and institutions, in order to carry out its duties and set and achieve its objectives in every field. It is therefore a very broad concept, which has been effectively summarised in the report we are discussing today, for which I would like to congratulate Mrs Ferrer. However, although capacity-building in the developing countries should affect all aspects of development, it must be based on essential capacities, which, in the opinion of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, are, on the one hand, organising civil society and strengthening democratic institutions, and, on the other, building individual capacity through education. All this should of course take place through certain minimum development requirements that guarantee the survival of the people. This means compliance with certain minimum basic health standards. The organisation of civil society refers to the structure of citizenship and citizen participation in social and decision-making processes. All this should take place within the context of an endogenic dynamic and external aid, as we have requested of the Commission, should therefore be devoted to strengthening basic organisations, urban and rural citizens’ associations, local NGOs and traditional social institutions, more than to direct aid to the budgets of the countries receiving aid. This evening the Commissioner has recognised that this report is timely and necessary and that it effectively details the capacity-building that must take place for development. Strengthening democratic institutions is one of the matters pending cooperation in general and Community cooperation in particular. Democracy goes far beyond periodic elections and requires the implementation of flexible participation and dialogue mechanisms between citizens and institutions, as well as their democratisation, based on the concepts of good governance, transparency and combating corruption. Individual capacity-building through education is the ultimate capacity-building system. The Socialist Group considers education to be a  condition for development and reducing poverty, as we pointed out in the Community budget. With this own-initiative report, the European Parliament calls on the Commission to join large aid organisations in including capacity-building among the general elements of its cooperation policy. I would like to congratulate Mrs Ferrer once again, as well as all the groups who contributed, with their amendments, to ensuring that this report contains guidelines for updating and improving the Community development cooperation policy. . Mr President, when we talk about asylum, we must point out that we are talking about a right which assists any person with a justified fear of persecution and that international law, Community law and internal legislations legally oblige the European Union and its Member States to respect that right. And it is essential that the institution of the right to asylum is not affected by the crisis currently facing the asylum system, possibly as a result of abuses of its use. I would like to congratulate the institutions because, finally, five years after the Tampere European Council, we are tackling the creation of a European asylum system which must involve common standards for reception, the processing of applications and assistance for asylum seekers. The European Union should, firstly, adapt the conditions in which asylum seekers are currently received to Europe's own standards in terms of individual rights and guarantees, hygiene and welfare. Secondly, we should take this opportunity to adapt to the current reality and include amongst cases granted asylum those of women and children threatened with genital mutilation, child soldiers and the victims of new forms of slavery. As draftsman of the opinion for the Committee on Development and Cooperation, I am pleased that the improvement of asylum systems and the possible establishment of a common European system is not being carried out from a policing point of view, but also by taking account of political aspects and the development and human rights problems which are at the root of both asylum applications and the mass economic migration which is sometimes disguised as asylum. The Commission's approach should include measures for creating systems of freedoms which respect human rights in the countries of origin, and the establishment of the essential security conditions in neighbouring countries. This would reduce the pressure from genuine asylum seekers at European borders. For bogus asylum seekers, the tendency for economic migrants to use the institution of asylum can only be stopped if we fund cooperation projects in the countries of origin which offer prospects for development. For a long time the Socialist Group has supported co-development measures, in other words, specific development of the places of origin of migration in order to facilitate return and discourage immigration or the abuse of asylum. I hope that the next Parliament will have the opportunity to give its opinion on the definitive establishment of a common asylum system. – Mr President, an error has slipped into paragraphs 15, 17 and 18 of this joint resolution of the European Union and Africa. In paragraph 15, instead of saying “the OAU” it should say “the African States”. In section 17, instead of “the OAU” it should say “Africa”. In section 18, “members of the OAU” should be replaced by “Africans”. –  Mr President, many thanks for the answer given by the Commissioner, which stated that irregularities have indeed taken place. I would say that what we have seen are more than irregularities: the trial was a farce and should be declared null and void. As the Commissioner knows very well, thanks to the media and to the international observers, the witnesses arrived having been tortured the day before and the trial ended with the leaders of the democratic opposition being sentenced to twenty years in prison. By acting in this way, the Government of Equatorial Guinea has proven that it fails to meet the minimum requirements of democracy and good governance. The President of the European Council made a fine statement yesterday expressing his concern, but I do not think this will be enough. What is needed is for tangible measures to be taken; the President of that country cannot be allowed to continue travelling freely in Europe. I would, therefore, like the Commissioner to tell me what tangible actions the Commission foresees taking apart from those he has already mentioned. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before this debate we would have liked to ask the Council a question on the policy of complementarity. We tried to, but we were unable to. It has not been possible, and we regret this because the truth is, Commissioner, that on this matter you are not alone. There are also the Member States and the Council. In any event, I believe that the report which Mrs Ferrer has presented this afternoon is a sound report and, as she too has said, we would have liked to have a joint text. We are dealing with development policy in a piecemeal way and this prevents us from having an overview. Her report can, however, be considered to be an important contribution. This report is of an importance which transcends the material scope of development aid policy. As well as being a requirement of the Treaty, complementarity between Community aid policy and that of the Member States, is an invaluable instrument for helping the Union and the Member States to progress along a common path in the field of aid. We Socialists believe that development aid policy in general must be the flagship of Community external action and yet there is no such complementarity, apart from a few pilot projects. We are failing to use a mechanism which would to such a large extent maximise the resources, which are becoming scarcer, dedicated to aid as the political result of a joint effort, despite the repeated requests of this Parliament and the repeated resolutions of the Council itself, which basically has ultimate responsibility in this area. Complementarity is currently expressed in operational coordination on the ground and in the commitology procedure in Brussels. With regard to the former, I have already said that it is only applied in certain pilot projects. As for commitology, I will give you an example of how this is not working either: the Latin America committee has only met twice this year, instead of on a monthly basis which used to be the case and which would be necessary for it to work. Some of the programmes approved by this committee, such as the regional programme for the reconstruction of Central America in relation to Hurricane Mitch, are still to be implemented. There is a clear lack of political will to implement the measures which we decide on in Parliament, and that leads to inefficiency in the achievement of our political objectives, to a gradual paralysis of the functioning of the European institutions and to a bad image which, as the previous speaker said, is sometimes projected to the public. Complementarity with the Member States, coherence between Community policies and coordination between departments must form the basis of development aid policy if this policy is to fulfil this Parliament’s minimum requirements in terms of efficiency. There are problems with the diversity of instruments and the duplication of procedures, but the real problem is the lack of political will. As has been said before, the States must overcome their individual tendencies – which often reflect their concerns about former colonial relationships or other factors – and commit themselves to a common European project. If we do not adopt this policy, we will not be efficient in terms of development cooperation. The Commission now has the opportunity to include these elements in its reform and the Council has the historic responsibility to involve itself in the definition and implementation of Community policies. Both institutions can rely on the strong support of the Socialist Group in Parliament in relation to development aid policy. The policy of complementarity between national and Community policies has a total of 16 players (15+1). Coherence between Community policies and coordination between departments within the Commission are intended to create what we wish to be the Union’s development aid policy, with the aim of improving the efficiency of European aid by helping to optimise the use of resources, both human and financial, and to make the European Union more visible, thereby making it more efficient and giving it a greater presence in the international community. We hope that all of this will be introduced with the reform and that we will have coherent, complementary and coordinated policies in order to achieve greater efficiency. –  Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, from what you have said today and you also said in Cape Town, I imagine that Spain is about to ratify it. In any case, given the importance of this Association Agreement between the ACP countries and the European Union, and as two years have now passed since the signing of the Cotonou Agreement, I should like to know whether – apart from what the Member States that have ratified it – only four of them, as the President-in-Office of the Council has pointed out – may be doing – the Council is thinking of organising a campaign to inform our public opinion in Europe, which hardly knows what this Cotonou Association Agreement is about. The same cannot be said of the ACP countries, 44 of which have ratified it, as he has indicated. Does the Council intend to make the most of this Presidency and the current situation in the ACP countries to carry out this awareness campaign? – Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Gemelli, for his work in producing this report, on which all the groups have ultimately reached a consensus in committee, although, as has been said, this has not been easy. This report deals with a field of action – globalisation – which is increasingly complex, especially when it comes to environmental problems and the problem of migratory flows, which is becoming more and more important in defining the European Union’s role in the world. The Socialist Group has always argued that development policy should be an essential element of the external action of the European Union and its Member States. And this is for two fundamental reasons: firstly, because the underdevelopment in which at least 800 million people live strikes us as intrinsically perverse, socially unjust and economically inefficient. Secondly, because we believe that the principles of solidarity and cohesion on which the European Union is based must guide the management of globalisation, so that it may be sustainable. To this end, I recommend that anybody who is not convinced should read the latest essay by Susan George. However, we do not support just any development policy. Commissioner, if the objective of development policy is to eliminate poverty, as you and the Council have stated on numerous occasions, you should not, in your preliminary draft budgets, take funds away from the least-developed countries for the benefit of other external commitments. If this means that you have to increase the ceiling of the Financial Perspective, then do so, and if you do not, then change your tune. If we follow the model of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD for the rationalisation of strategies to combat poverty, we will also have to follow the DAC on the structure of the budgets, so that we can assess the effectiveness of our policy in relation to our objectives. That is what Parliament approved and what we want to see. If the Commission wants new forms of governance for Europe in which dialogue with civil society plays a fundamental role, we must help those organisations which are more representative in the development of the European Union. In summary, we cannot manage this policy in the erratic way that we are doing at the moment. Mr Gemelli’s report is good. The Commission’s communication is also good although it suffers from a lack of specific points and quantifiable objectives, as the report says. Both documents are worthless if they are not applicable in practice. In the coming months various world conferences are going to take place and the debate will be reopened on the great development issues: the World Conference against Racism, the United Nations Conference on Least Developed Countries, and the first AIDS Conference. All of these issues affect our everyday policy. Racism, for example, is closely related to the problems of immigration, which in turn must be analysed from the point of view of the development of the countries of origin, and AIDS is closely related to the whole policy of patents and the pharmaceutical industry. The Socialist Group of the European Parliament advocates the European Union’s active participation in these conferences and it is therefore necessary for European Community development policy to be effective, coherent and cohesive. We therefore hope that this report bears fruit. – Madam President, the eruption of the Nyiragongo volcano has demonstrated two realities which present a challenge to the whole international community in general and, specifically, for the European Union as well as the countries of the region. The first reality is the extreme poverty in which thousands of people live, not only in this eastern region, but in the whole of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, a poverty which is aggravated all the more by the war which has been devastating that country since 1996. Figures have been presented: it has been said that more than 300 000 people need assistance, that 30% of the population is homeless and that 12 000 homes need to be rebuilt. In this respect, the resolution we have approved this week, which establishes links between emergency aid, rehabilitation and the development policy, has been very timely. The second reality is the hatred which has been brewing up between the people of the east and the neighbouring population of Rwanda, a hatred which has been demonstrated by the rejection by the people of Goma of the hospitality offered by Rwanda and the massive return of this population to their homes, which have now been taken over by the volcano, despite the risk of further eruptions. These two realities should lead us to come up with a European Union strategy and action which involves us in this region. It is clear that a good reconstruction policy is required for Goma, as well as a policy on forecasting possible new eruptions and control of the Nyiragongo Volcano. Nevertheless, none of this strategy will achieve effective results unless the foundations for a democratic system in the country are consolidated, as well as a broad social consensus which guarantees stability and peace. But that will be of no use unless there is confidence in that stability throughout the region. It is therefore important that this inter-Congo dialogue which is restarting in South Africa in Sun City puts an end to this conflict. We also believe it is important to organise a regional conference which reconciles the countries of the Great Lakes region and brings back the confidence which has been lost to its various peoples. The resolution we are presenting is a collection of desires, principles and strategies which we wish to see applied in order to deal with the eruption of the Nyiragongo Volcano, without losing sight of what was said previously. We support the global plan for 2000 managed by ECO and we ask that this plan, which is very important for the African region, and for the achievement of the objectives previously expressed, be speeded up and that this aid does not arrive late, which has unfortunately often been the case. –  Mr President, the establishment of a common strategy between the European Union and Latin America, as decided in Rio de Janeiro in 1999, is a matter of justice that will finally give the appropriate dimension to interregional relationships that have historically been undervalued. The Socialist Group in the Committee on Development and Cooperation agrees with the objectives set out in the resolution proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, for which I would like to congratulate Mr Salafranca. In our opinion, we need to increase the content of the political agenda and deepen dialogue at all political and institutional levels, within the framework of a true partnership. We think that the signing of association agreements with the Andean Community and Central America is necessary, with the aim of creating a Euro-Latin American free trade area. We also consider, however, that we need to give priority to the resolution of development problems in many Latin American countries, where there are 200 million poor people. We are particularly concerned about the Andean area, Central America and the Caribbean. In the Andean area, instability, institutional violence, problems of drug trafficking and the management of migratory flows have to be dealt with from a global perspective, that integrates development cooperation, trade liberalisation, institutional transformation, human rights and the rights of indigenous peoples in particular. The creation of a Euro-Latin American area of peace and stability has to be founded upon the principles of human rights, democracy and the fight against drug trafficking. In Central America, aid to social development and the fight against poverty have to take precedence over any other initiative, such as the information society. To do otherwise would be to put the cart before the horse. I would also like to make a special reference to the Caribbean and, specifically, to Cuba, as have other Members this morning. Cuba is not part of the Cotonu Agreement nor does it have an institutionalised relationship with the European Union. We think that development potential in Cuba, where, for some time, European companies have been investing, and the situation of its people merit treatment from the European Union that goes much further than the indifference it has shown to this country until now. –  Madam President, I am very much in agreement with the majority of what has been said on this matter and I shall, therefore, not repeat what other speakers have said. I do think, however, that all of it should be taken into account, given that the whole world is waiting to see the European Union’s reaction. It seems to me that, given the condemnation of the situation in Afghanistan that this Parliament has already issued, and given the danger of the reduction in civil liberties, we have to remain united, as Commissioner Patten has said, and present a united front against terrorism. I am also worried, however, by something else that has already been said: the tragic situation that has arisen since these attacks. On the one hand there is the Afghan population, which is facing a serious crisis, as was very clearly stated by the Joint Committee of the FAO and the World Food Programme (WFP) that recently visited Afghanistan, and which has said that, at this moment in time, the country is suffering widespread starvation due to a serious crisis in agricultural production, that could cause the death of a huge number of people. To this we must add the continuing danger to the farming population posed by the antipersonnel mines scattered throughout the country and the situation of the thousands of refugees in bordering countries – not only in Pakistan and Iran, but also in Uzbekistan and Tajikistan I would like to point out – that have to be dealt with. However, what also worries me – and it is on this that I would like to focus, Madam President – is the situation of the populations in all the other developing countries, particularly the African countries, who will suffer the worst economic consequences of this crisis. According to information from the World Bank, the terror attacks condemn ten million more people to poverty, as a result of economic slowdown and, particularly, from the loss of income due to decreased exports, a reduction in tourism, falling prices, etc. It is true, Madam President, that the European Union and this Parliament now have to form a strong coalition against terrorism. But we should also consider – and this would send a signal to the whole world – an international coalition against the poverty, misery and despair of millions of citizens across the world who very often seek protection from the very fanatics who organise these acts of terrorism. I would, therefore, ask that, alongside this coalition against terrorism, we also send a signal, chiefly to the peoples of Africa and Asia, stating our desire to build a coalition against misery, poverty and despair. – Mr President, the violence in Colombia is a matter of great concern to Parliament. We have already passed a series of resolutions in support of the peace process in recent years. We hope for a genuine peace process, based on a consensus amongst the various parties to the conflict and civil society, including NGOs, farmers’ organisations and local communities. That is quite different from a plan amounting to financing fumigation and likely to exclude dialogue with the main players involved in the peace process. Europe’s external action in Latin America has proved successful when Europe has conducted its own independent policy, promoting solutions and imbuing its cooperation programmes with its own political values regarding human rights, democracy and social cohesion. It is worth recalling events in Central America leading to the San José dialogue. On that occasion, the European Community as it then was supported a regional solution instead of taking sides in the East-West conflict. The European Union must adopt this distinctive approach and promote it at international level. To this end, as I understand it, the Council and the Commission are prepared to support an independent autonomous approach and to fight against drugs. However, the fight against drugs goes beyond crop-spraying. Furthermore, collusion with the United States’ military plans is out of the question as far as we are concerned. Crop replacement has to be preceded by a dialogue with the peasant farmers, who must be offered other possibilities for development. A commitment to sustainable development is also called for: we are already aware that fumigation using  is harmful to the environment. Government cooperation is required to facilitate redistribution of the land so as to guarantee the farmers’ survival and put an end to mass migration. In short, a different plan is needed, one based on negotiation. As regards Community cooperation, we are somewhat concerned that the EUR 105 million of aid planned may not be allocated to specific projects to combat poverty and promote human rights. We should like to receive more details concerning these various funds. In particular, we would like some guarantee that NGOs will cofinance the projects for which the funds are intended and will therefore be involved in their management This would also represent a guarantee for the future of Colombia and of this Plan Colombia. According to the information available to me at present, there are currently no NGO cooperation programmes cofinanced by the Commission in Colombia. If indeed there are some, I would like details on them. What type of programmes are they? In short, we believe that the European Union must pursue its own policy in Colombia. This policy should involve genuine peace, dialogue, the elimination of poverty and prospects for sustainable development. No other route can lead to peace, especially not unpredictable military moves by the United States. The latter are certainly not acceptable to this House, and after what I have heard today, I trust they are not acceptable to the Council or to the Commission either. I believe it is important to make this clear. If we succeed in drawing up a sound peace plan for Colombia with the European Union acting independently, today will have been a good day. –  Mr President, I wish to speak, like my fellow Members who have just spoken, about trafficking and the fight against the illegal trade in light weapons. As in 2001, when the United Nations Conference on the illegal trade in light weapons was held and we welcomed the action plan, we now welcome the assessment meeting that will take place next month. Precisely with regard to this assessment meeting, we wish to recall, as has already been said, that 500 million small arms and light weapons are at large in the world and cause thousands of deaths every day, according to the 2001 Independent Weapons Study. Furthermore, most of the victims are women and children. The illegal trade in small arms and light weapons to developing countries, which are often embroiled in conflicts, originates mainly in Member States of the European Union, in addition –as has also already been pointed out – to the United States and Russia. The Conference and the action plan now under review have not managed to establish a binding international legal instrument that prohibits illegal trading. The European Union must focus its efforts on producing a code of conduct that prevents weapons reaching these warring countries, regimes that systematically breach human rights and armed groups that, as has already been said, recruit child soldiers. We should, therefore, translate these aims into joint action, first by the Member States, whose national laws on the matter are – unfortunately – totally disparate, and then apply these to the international community as a whole. The assessment meeting presents a good opportunity to achieve this. Light weapons must fall under the control of an international system, as has been done with anti-personnel mines and chemical and biological weapons. The European Union should, therefore, take the following proposals to New York: firstly, to establish an international registry of weapons sales; secondly, a specific ban on the sales of light weapons to regimes that breach human rights and thirdly, to establish a system for tracing weapons. Together with these requests to the Council and to the Member State governments, requests that we put forward in the resolution we would like to see adopted, we also wish to take this opportunity to ask the Commission to step up its cooperation in demobilising armed groups in developing countries. At present this applies most particularly to Africa. The current conflicts in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Liberia amongst others demonstrate the ineffectiveness of the policy we have implemented to date and the need to monitor weapons sales. – Thank you very much, Commissioner. Today I have found out that a council of war sentenced the person who killed this aid worker to thirty years in prison and has awarded compensation of EUR 40 000 to the family of the victim. It does represent progress that there has been an emergency council of war; however, Commissioner, you know – and I imagine this has been expressed by the people who have been in Guinea – that human rights are still being violated all the time, despite certain prisoners having been freed, and that this situation is unfortunately constant in this small country which has few citizens. They continue to live essentially in terror, and although the country is one of the world’s richest, thanks to oil, the population, as you know, receives no education or health care and lives in poverty. Therefore, Commissioner, despite the fact that you have said that there have been improvements, I would ask you to continue to demand a system of guarantees which make it possible for these citizens to live with the minimum degree of human rights. –  Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate Mrs Carlotti on her report, which is a reflection of her unflagging dedication to relations between the EU and ACP countries. Our current partnerships with 77 countries in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific should set an example for relations between the European Union and the United States, and also EU candidate countries, which we have been very enthusiastically debating in the recent past. If EU Member States do not show much interest in these partnerships, which is borne out by the aforementioned fact that only four Member States have ratified the Cotonou Agreement, Parliament should do so, particularly because relations with these countries are based, according to the new agreement, on political dialogue, of which the Parliamentary Assembly is a fundamental pillar. On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to ask the Member States, particularly my own, Spain, which holds the Presidency of the Council, to speed up formalities so that the agreement can be ratified. The Joint Assembly, like this Parliament, is deeply involved in a process where its Rules of Procedure are being reformed, having, as its aim, the true democratisation of ACP-EU relations. Our efforts are directed, first and foremost, towards improving the functioning of the Assembly, converting it into an assembly which is effectively balanced and parliamentary. At the moment it is not balanced because, whilst on the European side the range of ideologies and political sensitivities that make up the European Parliament are represented, the ACP countries have only one vote per country; a vote which obviously represents the authorities’ opinions; it is not balanced in terms of equality between the sexes either. Nor is it parliamentary, because the representatives from ACP countries are not, on the whole, Members of Parliament. The credibility of our cooperation with ACP countries, which is far from negligible, is in doubt if it is not accompanied by reforms and the strengthening of the institution that is the most representative of the association, that is to say, the Joint Assembly. Last week, in a seminar, we said that ‘without democracy there can be no development’ and this is a priority objective of the international community and the European Union. I would ask the Commission and the Council to make resources available to ACP countries to improve their institutional capacity, especially with regard to representative institutions, and to promote the organisation of civil society and their participation in cooperation programming. I think this is a good report whose content should be applied. Mr President, amongst the priorities of the Spanish Presidency, I have heard no mention of a European policy that shows greater solidarity with the rest of the world. As coordinator of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like you to clarify your plans for social development and for the reduction of poverty, which the Commission, Parliament and previous presidencies have set as objectives. You mentioned the Monterrey International Conference. What position will you be adopting on the policies that need to be funded? Who is to fund them? Are you going to support the objective of 0.7% of GDP, approved at the last Development Council by the majority of Member States? How much cooperation will there be with Latin America and with the countries of the Mediterranean, with an integrated approach between trade relations and the fight against poverty? What will your position be on the commitments given through the United Nations programmes on education and health for all? What will your position be on the current conflicts in Africa? I hope that on all of these issues you will consult the European Parliament and, also, civil society and the NGOs. I wish you a Presidency, Mr Aznar, that will be fruitful for Europe. . – Mr President, the difficult circumstances which have accompanied the management of the 1999 budget, of which we are all well aware, have especially affected funds for external relations and, even more, aid to third countries, including the European Development Fund. For the Socialist Group, the good management of the European Development Fund is not only essential for reasons of correct and transparent accounting, but because this fund and all Community aid resources are essential if we are to contribute to reducing poverty, which is one of our priorities. We are therefore closely monitoring the Commission’s action in this area. The eventful journey of this report through the competent committees, leading to its approval, is a testimony to this interest. Last year we made our 1998 discharge conditional upon the orientation of Community spending towards reducing poverty and we improved the structure of the budget in this respect, in order to reduce the risks of dispersal of aid funds. This year we have delayed, on one occasion, the discharge, while awaiting a series of reports from the Court of Auditors. We are now in a position to approve it, now that the Commission has adopted a series of measures to improve the effectiveness of aid, in particular the creation of Europe Aid, but at the same time certain data leads to some reservations: in 1999 the level of payments from the EDF was disappointing when compared to the level of commitment appropriations and payments achieved in previous years, as Mrs Rühle has said. Initiatives such as the reduction of the debt of the least-developed countries are not being complied with in accordance with the commitments the Commission has made. Contracts funded by the EDF essentially benefit companies in the Member States, to the detriment of local companies and organisations. The Commission is not yet sufficiently directing its aid towards reducing poverty. We want simplification of procedures, integration of the cycle of cooperation, transparency in management, assessment in such important sectors as health and education. We will monitor compliance with the recommendations of the resolution we are debating today. The Commission knows that it has the support of the Socialist Group in its efforts to improve the management of the EDF and the Socialist Group trusts that we will see these improvements during the coming financial years, so that we are able to discharge the budget with fewer problems and conditions than has been the case so far. Thank you very much. –  Mr President, the massacres in Ituri are extremely serious events and should indeed be one of the subjects in our debate on human rights. We in the Group of the Party of European Socialists denounce once again the use of the rape of women and girls as a weapon of war and the recruitment of child soldiers. We denounce the problems concerning access to humanitarian aid and the presence of foreign troops on the territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Finally, we denounce the neighbouring countries supporting the armed groups operating within the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I would also like to draw attention to the peace process and to the urgency of supporting it, further to the so-called Final Act adopted on 2 April in South Africa. We must not fail to see the wood for the trees. These massacres must not deter us from working for peace in the long term. The government of national unity provided for in the peace agreement must be formed in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The country needs an integrating government able to compel armed groups to withdraw. The best means of achieving peace is to form a solid and stable integrating government. The peace agreement timetable provided for the formation of the government of national unity on 28 May. The parties and the rebel groups have presented their lists to the Government. Paradoxically however, it is Mr Kabila’s government that is dragging its feet. Once again, I would urge the Congolese authorities to comply with the terms and timetable in the peace agreement. Similar problems are delaying the formation of a Parliament. The measures required to form a Parliament by 10 June, the date set in the peace agreement, are not being taken. Further, it has become evident that the mandate of the United Nations Observation Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) must be amended, as was previously proposed. The United Nations has a mere 5 000 men deployed in a huge country. The MONUC mandate needs to be extended to allow UN troops to intervene between the warring parties. At present they are only there as observers to monitor the cease-fire. In addition, UN troops should be allowed to intervene to protect the civilian population if necessary. This must however remain a United Nations mission. Under no circumstances should foreign troops be deployed, especially troops from countries with interests in the Great Lakes region. French troops must also abide by the MONUC mandate. Clearly, the presence of foreign troops in this area has been at the root of many of the conflicts that laid waste to the region, including the Rwandan genocide. Consequently, it is necessary to ensure that the United Nations alone is responsible for guaranteeing peace. I therefore believe the House must continue to insist on this. I would like to take this opportunity to call upon the Commission to direct as much humanitarian aid as possible to help the civil population of the region. These people have been suffering for a very long time. – Madam President, I do not fully understand your reply to Mr Schulz, since, according to your reply to my letter of 15 May, you acknowledge that you have received documents from the Spanish Supreme Court relating to the request for the waiver of the immunity of Mr Berlusconi and Mr Dell'Utri, and that does not square with your reply to Mr Schulz. – Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to congratulate Mr Imbeni because I believe he has produced a splendid report and, while we were debating it in committee, we were already in complete agreement with his proposals. The Socialist Group believes that aid policy must be the flagship of the European Union’s external activities insofar as it reflects the ideas which must inspire the construction of the European Union, that is to say, solidarity and cohesion on a global level. In these times of Commission reform, when many Community policies and procedures are being questioned, humanitarian aid has been evaluated positively by different bodies and, of course, on a political level, by Parliament. It is true that there has been a lot of criticism of humanitarian aid. However, we, who have seen and evaluated what ECHO has done, believe that its work has been very positive. This report therefore serves to ratify the principle of humanitarian aid as a right for people involved in disasters and an obligation on the part of the international community, in which the European Union is a major player, in both quantitative and qualitative terms. Nevertheless and with a view to the future, we must take some steps forward. Firstly, we must overcome the so-called ‘grey area’ which was mentioned earlier, that is to say, the interregnum between the end of emergency aid and the beginning of the rehabilitation and development actions. While this ‘grey area’ continues, in which nobody is administratively responsible, there will be people who do not receive assistance for no other reason than a lack of internal coordination within the Commission. We have seen this in the case of Mozambique and other disasters. Humanitarian aid did arrive, but during this interregnum it has not continued for rehabilitation and development cooperation. Coordination within the Commission and complementarity with the Member States and other donors are factors which are fundamental to the efficiency which reform is intended to produce. Secondly, it is urgent that we increase the number of staff dedicated to humanitarian aid activities. The number of ECHO’s staff is not proportional to the importance of its work. Thirdly – and this is closely related to the previous point – the budget for humanitarian aid must be increased proportionally with its political importance and the real objectives we wish to achieve and which can be counted in the most important terms: human lives. In this respect, the Commission and the Council’s budgetary proposals are far from meeting what we believe to be the humanitarian needs. Lastly, we must try harder and harder to improve the decentralisation and flexibility of relations with agents for humanitarian aid, fundamentally the NGOs. An instrument was mentioned earlier, DIPECHO, which provides operative preparation for disaster situations. We believe that it is essential that, when a humanitarian catastrophe occurs, whether natural or caused by man, instruments are already in place. In this respect, we wish to highlight the importance of DIPECHO. The Socialist Group supports the principles which govern humanitarian aid and its future in the terms which I expressed earlier. We do not believe that this should become a token policy, but rather a flagship, together with development cooperation, of the European Union’s external action. Mr Imbeni said earlier – I do not know if the Commissioner heard what he said because he was talking at the time, but it seems to me to be very important – that there must be an awareness-raising campaign on the significance of humanitarian aid, on what this humanitarian aid means to us, the European Union. Mr Imbeni also said that the costs of that campaign should not be met with money intended for humanitarian aid. I believe that this point, the subject of an amendment which has been presented this afternoon, is important and deserves our support. Mr� President, I do not want to over-dramatise the situation as there are many civilians suffering violence in armed conflicts around the world. However, between 1992 and 1997, 131 volunteer and humanitarian workers and human rights activists working for the United Nations in areas of conflict were murdered. Between 1� January 1994 and 17� March 1997, 119 volunteer and humanitarian workers were kidnapped in 35 separate incidents. In 1992, one United Nations representative died violently every month. In 1993, one died every two weeks and, in 1994, one died every week. In the first two months of 1997, 9 volunteers died. In 1996, 153 delegates of the International Committee of the Red Cross were subject to security incidents, including murders and kidnappings. I must, in particular, mention the deaths of three members of -Spain in Rwanda in 1997. In short, as stated by the joint motion for a resolution with which we want to close this debate, the murders of Iñigo Eguiluz and Jorge Luis Mazo are simply the latest in a long line of attacks. These two men were volunteers for the organisation . They were murdered on 18� November in Quibdó on the Atrato river, 500 kilometres north of Bogotá, Colombia. These attacks strike not only at the integrity of these individuals but also at human rights, international humanitarian law and, within this, the right of victims of conflicts to be helped, to see the perpetrators of these acts tried and to receive the necessary reparation so that these crimes do not go unpunished. The recent insecurity for humanitarian workers is due to the increase in conflicts, the exponential growth of humanitarian organisations and, in particular, the nature of current conflicts. These are no longer between regular armed forces, subject to political control, and guerrilla movements with a defined command structure and ideologies. Conflicts in which the warring parties are responsible, to some extent, for the protection of humanitarian workers, from whose actions the people benefit, no longer exist. Volunteer and humanitarian workers are now exposed to banditry. The civilian population is regarded as just another element in the conflict and as part of the political and military strategy. Humanitarian action has therefore become an obstacle to the warring parties in the achievement of their objectives which often involve the elimination of part of the civilian population for ethnic, religious or cultural reasons. In view of this situation, the security of humanitarian workers is a widespread problem which is of concern to Parliament. The Commission should be concerned as it finances over 180 NGOs working in areas of conflict. The Council should also be concerned as it is engaged in advancing an external policy in accordance with the Treaties, in promoting human rights and a security policy which, at the moment, is specifically confined to humanitarian actions. This is why we ask for Parliament’s concerns to be echoed by the other institutions. The Commission should act by preparing a communication on the security conditions of volunteer and humanitarian workers and by adopting measures which guarantee this security. Before applying the measures proposed by some governments, such as military protection of their volunteers, we must examine other measures which may be more effective in situations of conflict. The Council should act through the promotion, from within the CFSP, of international humanitarian law and perhaps through the creation of a European civilian peace corps. In 1999, we commemorated the 50th anniversary of the Geneva Conventions on International Humanitarian Law, which protect the civilian population in armed conflicts, and which guarantee their access to international aid. These are instruments which impose a legal obligation on countries but which are systematically being breached. We ask the Secretary-General of the Council to use the European Union’s incipient capacity for external action to promote these EU principles. The Secretary-General of the United Nations recently asked the Security Council to impose international humanitarian law, even by applying Chapters 5, 6 and 7 of the Charter of the United Nations. Here today, we simply ask that we start to acquire a conscience and that measures are taken to tackle a problem which affects not only the NGOs but also the very foundations of our concept of world order. Madam President, I would firstly like to congratulate Mr Blak on having finally taken the decision to propose, in his report, the discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sixth, seventh and eighth European Development Funds for the 2000 financial year. The Commission, and particularly Commissioner Nielson, have made a great effort to keep Parliament informed on expenditure from these funds. Developing countries that are beneficiaries of these funds deserve the adoption by Parliament of the discharge already approved by the Court of Auditors. For this reason, the Socialist Group and the Committee on Development, for which I am rapporteur, support this discharge. However, we would ask the Commission that in future more funds be earmarked for social development and that these be more clearly reflected, as proposed by the Committee on Development, in both the budget and the EDF. We hope that next year we will be able to analyse the figures for EU aid in accordance with the OECD’s Development Aid Committee system, which will allow us to measure the impact of Community funds on the promotion of social development more accurately. With regard to the amendments tabled by Mr Blak himself, we have to reject those which refer to access to documents and the revision of the interinstitutional framework agreement, not because of substantive issues, for the agreement is not actually proving to be very effective, but because we cannot question, in each report by the Committee on Budgetary Control, the validity of an agreement that has been negotiated, signed and voted on by this Parliament with the participation, let us not forget, of members from that very committee. The Courts have also stated their opinion in this regard. We therefore understand that that matter of access to documents should not be raised in a report. On the other hand, we support the other amendments regarding audits and the management of the business development centre. This exercise in the discharge of the EDF, which we ritually tackle each year, should serve as an illustration, once again, of the ridiculous situation where Parliament inspects the discharge of funds that do not figure in the Community budget, the amounts of which we are not consulted on and on whose expenditure we are only informed of . The EDF, implemented by the Commission and theoretically controlled by Parliament, should be included within the Community budget as a fundamental quantitative and qualitative element of development policy. We believe that at this time of reform of the European Union, we have the perfect opportunity to remind ourselves of this fact and I would encourage all political groups to communicate this proposal, which Parliament has supported for many years, to the Convention. – Mr President, this morning’s debate is very important. I therefore thank the Commission and the Council for having made a statement on the coherence of Community policies in relation to development, because this demonstrates a will to make policy in this area more effective. However, if we are simply carrying out a diagnosis of the incoherences in our policy, we will end up totally frustrated and, furthermore, the result will be negative. As with the systems of forces which are studied in basic physics, it makes no sense to implement policies which will cancel each other out. The result of this absurd game is not zero, but rather a minus number, as a consequence of the material, financial and human resources thrown away in a pointless enterprise. With regard to policy, this minus number is multiplied by the number of results which are not achieved each time one measure cancels out the intended effect of another. In today’s globalised world, this fact is all the more obvious. There are no boundaries for Community policies. I am therefore glad that the Commission and the Council are once again taking an interest in the coherence of Community policies, and that, together with complementarity between national and Community policies and coordination between the services of the Commission, they intend to shape the policy on cooperation in accordance with the development of the European Union. Both the Commission and the Portuguese Presidency of the Council state, in their respective working programmes, that they wish to give coherence to those policies which have a very important impact on the developing countries, but they do not specify concrete measures aimed at introducing this coherence. Both institutions identify the most important areas where this idea should be applied. For example, the Commission, in its long term guidelines, says that the objective of sustainable development must be based on a strong sense of solidarity, supported by a commercial policy which takes common interests into account. The Commission is addressing a very important area, that is, commercial policy. However, this Parliament wishes to add policies to aid development, agriculture, fisheries policy, immigration, our position in international financial institutions, the common foreign and security policy and aid for structural reform. The Council – and Mr Luis Amado has said this this morning – has spoken on different occasions of the need for coherence – the last time, it is true, being in November 1999, and also on other occasions, such as the Development Councils of May 1999 and June 1997 – but with no concrete results. Since the Development Council is in agreement with what he says – and this is very significant – there is little we can say, as some previous speakers have pointed out. However, as Parliament, we wish to propose – as others have said and as the resolution states – the creation of an inter-service working group consisting of the people responsible for all the policies mentioned and the establishment of a monitoring centre for the coherence of the different Community policies, which is capable of anticipating the effects of each policy on the developing countries and amongst themselves. What we really want, however, is to be realists and not hide away from the fact that the achievement of these objectives of coordination, complementarity and, the most complex one, which we are discussing at the moment, coherence, will require a more developed policy than the one we currently have in the European Union. Let us hope – and we do hope – to be guided by the winds of change created by the Intergovernmental Conference, the reform of the Commission – which will also affect the development services –, this new legislature and the prospects for enlargement, to perfect a more coherent political union. We therefore hope that the Commission, in the report it is going to present to us on global policy, will also address the question of coherence as an integral element in the efficient use of Community resources and the specific management of public interests. – Mr President, I simply wish to thank the Commissioner for the information he has given me and say to him that – in terms of the co-development he has mentioned, which could resolve the problem of immigration – I will be closely monitoring all these projects and programmes he has proposed throughout north Africa, including the north of Morocco, which I believe to be very important if we are to prevent emigration. – Madam President, now that the Italian elections have taken place and we can no longer be accused of electioneering, I would like to know whether you have received a new petition from the Spanish Supreme Court in relation to the waiver of Mr Berlusconi’s immunity and whether you are going to deal with it without further delay, since this document has been confirmed in eight judicial decrees, including one from the Constitutional Court which, as you know, is the highest judicial body in Spain, higher than the Council of State. The Supreme Court has the competence to approach this House directly to demand that a petition be processed. I would like to know whether you have received it, in the terms that I have mentioned, and how you are going to proceed. – Mr President, the violation of the Lomé peace agreement by the Revolutionary United Front in Sierra Leone is not only a human tragedy for the civilian populations, especially for children, but is also a political tragedy for the whole international community. The impunity enjoyed by the rebels in Sierra Leone and the weakness of the peace-keeping forces, who can neither leave the country, for political and humanitarian reasons, nor effectively confront the armed rebels, are a threat to any future United Nations peace mission. At the same time, this would be the third failure, after Somalia and Angola, of the Blue Helmets and the United Nations in Africa. Africa, where the cruellest conflicts are taking place, is also, as far as peace is concerned, a forgotten territory. The mandate of the United Nations mission in Sierra Leone is, by any reckoning, insufficient to achieve its objectives. Its reinforcement, requested by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, depends on a decision by the Security Council, the same Security Council which gave the Blue Helmets the resources they required in East Timor and Bosnia, but which is much more reluctant to do the same in Sierra Leone at the moment. The United States and Great Britain have only sent forces to the United Nations mission in order to guarantee the safety of the evacuation. The only solution to the difficulties of the United Nations mission, in terms of achieving compliance with the peace agreement, is to entrust the political negotiation to the leaders of Liberia and Libya, whose record in seeking peace is very doubtful and also very worrying. The liberation of some of the hostages and the arrest yesterday of Sankoh do not put an end to this conflict, but rather they may be a cause for even greater concern. Only clear and decisive action by the international community as a whole can put an end to it: the arms embargo; the control of diamond trafficking; the deployment of a rapid intervention force, under the mandate of the United Nations; and the prosecution of the perpetrators of crimes against humanity, the savage attacks against civilians, against international peace and security as well as against the United Nations forces. The European Union must therefore support all these types of measures, within the framework of the CFSP. – Mr President, as has been mentioned, on the 5th this Parliament approved the Watson report, with a series of measures which were essential to dealing with the issue of terrorism. As has been mentioned here, a common definition of terrorism for all Member States, a European arrest warrant – which has been called for for some time – and the elimination of extradition seemed to us to be essential issues when Parliament asked for them on the 5th. But in that same report Parliament also sent more than one political message to the other Community institutions: it asked for consideration of the fact that certain acts – and I quote – ‘are orchestrated and carried out by groups organised at international level’ and indicated that there were States behind these actions and that this must be confronted. On 5 September, Mr President, this Parliament took the lead in asking the other institutions to adopt a firm attitude towards these issues. We already had the commitment that Commissioner Vitorino would react positively. On the 11th, Mr President, very soon afterwards, we realised that we had arrived late, dramatically late, and that the problem had exploded, not in the European Union, but in the United States, in an even more spectacular way – not dramatic, since it is always dramatic – than we have experienced here. Mr Watson modestly tells us that what he asked for in his report is useful only within the European Union. I do not agree. I believe that, if we take this series of initiatives, we can make progress on an internal action which, as Mr Poettering said, would be a demonstration of our solidarity with the United States. If we, given the haste which is now required – and haste was already required – make more rapid progress in offering this example of how there can be an operational reaction on a supranational level in the fight against terrorism. We will be sending the best indication of solidarity with the United States. We will be offering the best image, the best option for work in this supranational field against organised crime, as the United Nations recently requested in Palermo. I hope that in the case of other measures, such as combating money laundering and so many others which are on the table in the Council, we will not wait until we have to act in haste, until there are other dramatic events, in order to implement them. I believe that they are all essential to defending the world and, above all, freedom. – Mr President, the fight against terrorism has been, and must continue to be, one of our priorities, if not our main priority. There has been much progress in this field and in the field of cooperation in criminal matters and we have demonstrated that when we have political will we can be effective. I would like to ask whether you believe that now is the time, following this success in relation to cooperation in the criminal field, to carry out the necessary improvement in judicial standards in the European Union and the defence of individual rights. And I am referring to the current Union and the enlarged Union. I also believe – and I would like to hear the Commission’s opinion on this – that there should be some coordination initiative in the police field which would put an end to these areas of confusion, which are so difficult to explain to the citizens. I am referring to Europol and others. I am less optimistic about immigration policy, however. There is a phrase in the work programme which I find truly extraordinary: to consolidate the immigration and asylum policy. I do not believe it is the fault of the European Commission, I am more than sure of that; but, to be frank, I think it would be very positive if we were to begin the immigration and asylum policy. Mrs Grossetête asked the Commission for more initiatives. I would ask the Commission for fewer initiatives. It has presented all the initiatives it should have presented. We have a package of proposals which make up a coherent and reasonable immigration policy. What we need to do is to begin to take decisions in this area. I believe that we should not increase the range of proposals so that the Council can just select little bits of them, but we must demonstrate political will in order to make progress in global terms. And finally I would like to welcome the proposal for integration policies and, above all, the idea of coordinating these polices with social policy. If we believe that immigrants must enter Europe for employment purposes, we must be effective in both areas, we need an immigration policy which works, but also a labour market which works, a social policy which incorporates immigrants in order to respond to the local problems which immigration creates. Mr President, since I am in agreement with the comments made by Members from my group and several other groups, I wished to use my one minute of this interesting debate to draw attention, like Commissioners Vitorino and Barnier, to a specific issue: the risk of returning to unanimity on such a sensitive issue as judicial and police cooperation on criminal matters. I have been in this House for almost ten years and remember perfectly well the problems we had before the Treaty of Amsterdam and the total deadlock which intergovernmentality subjected us to in this field. Today, a degree of progress has been made in terms of effectiveness, but unanimity is still a very significant burden. It is also logical that the lack of parliamentary control – because in this regard we have lost out, the national Parliaments exercise no control over this field and nor do we – creates fear, because we are dealing with a very sensitive area, but the solution is to make decisive progress towards codecision. The Constitution makes it clear where and how we must intervene. We must show courage in order to offer the citizens an area of security which is also an area that defends freedom. Mr President, since the signature of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the European Union has had responsibility for combating racism and xenophobia. Two types of measure are required for this purpose. The first should seek the integration of people of non-European origin and the other should aim to organise immigration. With regard to the first, the Commission has sent us a series of proposals, contained in two directives and an action plan, which aim to apply the following decision taken by the Heads of State and Government in Tampere. This states that ‘The European Union must ensure fair treatment of third country nationals who reside legally on the territory of its Member States. A more vigorous integration policy should aim at granting them rights and obligations comparable to those of EU citizens’. This is totally contrary to what we have seen and found recently in El Ejido where there are irregularities, labour exploitation and indecent living conditions, which have been condemned in the past. I hope for prompt implementation of the measures to achieve integration. I also hope that the governments which produced such wonderful words in Tampere, including Spain, will work diligently to apply these. I have less hope about the development of an effective and fair European policy in accordance with the statement made by the Council on immigration. The only proposal which has been made is for the directive on family reunification. This is a key issue, as we have seen recently in the media that there are many men on their own in El Ejido. Yet we do not know whether this has been accepted by the governments. Outside the Community arena, some governments are making efforts to renew their immigration policies. This is occurring in my country, despite the government, the party in power being the only one which does not like the new law on aliens. The objective of combating racism and xenophobia, explained in the Treaties, should be the objective of all European institutions and politicians. On 28 February 1998 the European political parties, including the Spanish Popular Party, signed the Charter of European Political Parties for a Non-Racist Society. This requires coherent behaviour, yet local leaders of the Popular Party are throwing more fuel on the raging fire and boycotting the attempts of other institutions to put this out. The party to which the Mayor of El Ejido belongs should, according to the commitments signed in this Charter, act forcefully. It is only, as stated by Mr Hernández Mollar, through unity, responsibility and firmness that El Ejido, Spain and Europe will be able to overcome these events of which we are deeply ashamed. – Mr President, it is clear why our Group is going to vote in favour of the Klamt report and is not going to support its withdrawal. Yesterday I had a dream in this chamber: in the European Union there was a single executive, which was the Commission, and a single legislative body, which was Parliament, and Mr Vitorino woke me up from this dream during his last speech, by reminding me that the absent party did in fact exist. And not only did it exist, but it had also already adopted the majority of what we were discussing. Since I do not want them to have the excuse that they have not received Parliament’s opinion, we are going to vote in favour of the Klamt report, but I would ask the Council at least to show the minimum of loyalty. –  Mr President, as this is a debate which deals with various topics, I would firstly like to say that I completely agree with all that Mr Watson said in relation to his report. It appears to me that Parliament is going to make a worthwhile contribution today in confronting a violent situation in the streets of Europe which is a worry to us all. With regard to the advances made in the area of freedom, security and justice, I would firstly like to congratulate the Commission on what they were able to achieve yesterday, especially with regard to the European arrest warrant, and I would also like to congratulate the Council for a very particular reason, for the sincerity of the report from the Belgian Presidency with regard to the progress made. Just as the Council does in its report, I would like to express my concern at the lack of progress made in the area of common asylum policy, and even more so in the area of common immigration policy. Not only is there no European policy but, as we have seen recently, there are quite a few governments who are developing their own new national policies, and, what is inexcusable in some cases, justifying these decisions citing Europe as the underlying cause. I hope that in Laeken we can make progress, however small, and make a new commitment in accordance with what the Commission said in its two communications on asylum and on immigration. On the other hand, I think that the agreement reached on the mutual recognition of judicial decisions, the so-called European arrest warrant, is very important. This seems to me to be a giant step forward, of course, in the fight against terrorism, but also in the fight against money laundering, in the fight against corruption, in the fight against human trafficking, including of women for sexual exploitation, and in the fight against organised crime. To me, this seems important, but it also seems that we should take some time to think and it is this that, thirdly, I would like to ask the Council: I think that in Laeken you should take into account not only the advances made in the agenda but also how these have been achieved and which problems must be dealt with. It seems to me that the unanimity and the lack of real power of this Parliament do not help. We are living in a world of paradoxes. A few days ago, in a manner of speaking, we said that Bin Laden had provided the impetus for implementing methods for fighting terrorism that the Commission had been planning and that Parliament had requested some time ago. Paradoxically, it was also the spectacle made by Mr Berlusconi’s government that brought the debate on the European arrest warrant onto the front page of the papers. I would sincerely have preferred for this debate to have taken place in Parliament, for there to have been a public debate and for you to have accepted it. I would like to tell you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that I am pleased that you appreciate the institutional loyalty of this Parliament. I would just like it if you could, in return for this, display a little more institutional loyalty in the analysis of our texts, in the inclusion of some of our positive ideas in your documents and I think that this would help in strengthening the positive nature of the Commission/Parliament/Council work cycle. –  Mr President, last week the bodies of twelve people who were trying to reach the European Union appeared on the beaches of my country. Last year there were 500. Mr Prodi talks about bringing the European Union and its institutions closer to the citizens. I believe that the issues which relate to the creation of a European area of justice, freedom and security are, without doubt, very sensitive issues for the citizens of the Union. With regard to this issue we are in a very strange situation. The Commission's legislative programme is good; Mr Vitorino's proposals are good, they are clearly structured in the scoreboard, a timetable has been laid down for their application and we can talk about them and debate them. There is good communication on immigration – and I hope that Mr Poettering realises this – underpinned by a consensus on moving forward with a common policy. This also applies to asylum and judicial cooperation, for example, as the honourable Member said, in relation to combating terrorism. However, since Tampere and until last week in Stockholm, the Council has insisted that we have to make progress, has insisted on putting the emphasis on what was decided at that European Council in Tampere. In my view, however, it is acting in an incomprehensible way. There has been no agreement on any of the proposals that are on the table, not on family reunification nor on any other proposal. We are making very gradual progress but at the same time we are seeing a proliferation of individual State initiatives, which disturb the balance of the legislative programme. We are also seeing bilateral or multilateral initiatives and agreements which will lead us goodness knows where, in relation, for example, to the issue of Schengen in the Treaty. We do not know what is going to happen, nor how the work will be done. Schengen has been hijacked by the Member States for the moment. Mr Prodi, you told this House that there are going to be delays in implementing these policies. You said this before Nice and you added that they were not going to be the fault of the Commission. I would like to ask you: whose fault will this be? What is your Commission going to do to defend this part of the legislative programme which, I repeat, I believe to be a good programme? Thank you. Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is the year in which it was planned to conclude the programme laid down at the Tampere European Council. In addition, in the short time remaining we need to integrate the ten new states into this objective. The objective remains unfixed. We have repeatedly expressed Parliament’s concerns about the integration of the Tampere objectives in the acceding countries. As regards the internal situation, I am very concerned at the length of list 4 at this late stage. This is the list awaiting decision by the legislator. It contains the directive concerning conditions of entry and stay in the European Union for reasons of work or study. It also contains the decision to be taken on granting asylum status and the minimum conditions for people to request asylum in Europe. The statute of long-term residents and the directive on family reunification should also be on the list. Although a decision has been taken on the latter there are countless exceptions to it, to the extent that there is really nothing to choose between having this directive and having fifteen different sets of legislation. True, this is a problem for the Council. Nonetheless, it is also the Commission’s responsibility to defend the programme it has itself proposed and to defend it strongly. The programme is good, consistent and global. The Commission must defend it as Mr Prodi stated a few weeks ago before the House when he spoke following the tragedy of the victims in Italy. Sadly, that tragedy was repeated in Spain. Mr Prodi, you can count on our support in defending the programme before the Council. The Council is currently exerting strong pressure to establish disjointed measures regarding what it terms illegal immigration. These measures are doomed to failure. I am not making an ideological statement. Rather, I am stating it is clearly impossible to take account only of the point of view of ministers responsible for home affairs in as complex and global an issue as immigration. I urge you to put immigration in its broadest sense on the agenda for relations with our neighbours. It has to be a factor in achieving stability and prosperity. Immigration also needs to be linked to employment, as has already been the case. You can count on our support over this. There is also an extensive list of decisions outstanding in the field of cooperation over criminal issues. Curiously, that list contains, amongst others, the directives on the protection of the Community’s interests and combating people trafficking. As I said, this is curious. I appeal to you to deal with these issues as a matter of priority. Once again, you can rely on Parliament’s support. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on the questions she has addressed to the Council and the Commission, which anticipate a resolution from this House and which I hope will receive strong support. And I would also like to thank the Council and the European Commission for their comprehensive replies. Firstly, I agree with both the Council and the Commission that it is fair to say that we have made a lot of progress in the field of cooperation on criminal matters. So much so that it now seems reasonable – and I hope that everyone agrees – that we should expect and ask for the proposals which the Commissioner has put forward here, more than once, in relation to improving judicial standards in the European Union and creating common minimum standards which guarantee to the European citizens that this framework of criminal cooperation reinforces not only their freedom and security but also the efficiency of justice. I believe that this is really positive. In relation to the fight against this type of cross-border crime, I would simply like to draw attention to the Conference which took place in Brussels with regard to trafficking in women and children. I believe that the citizens expect us to deal with this issue from a Community point of view. We adopted a declaration, the Brussels Declaration, which had our full support, and I believe we should take the lead in the implementation of the measures it called for. With regard to asylum and immigration, the truth is that I have been perplexed all day. I do not understand what is going on here. We have often said in this House that we endorsed the Tampere agreements, that we wanted a common, balanced and global immigration policy, in the way that all the Ministers, including those from the PPE group, had stated in Tampere. We all agree that the framework referred to by Mr Vitorino is the one we need in order to create this common area for immigration and asylum, in the terms indicated by the Commission and undoubtedly in the terms which inspired the debates in the Parliament and the Council. Now it seems that, on the contrary, we are only calling for certain minimal things in the field of immigration. I do not understand. I hope, Mr von Boetticher, that you are not in the government at some time in the future and that we do not hear you saying, 'This is a European problem which must be dealt with from a European perspective', as so many Prime Ministers affiliated to the PPE do, quite rightly. I hope that this can carry on and to this end I hope that the Convention will grant Parliament and the Council co-decision powers, as the Commissioner requested, in the field of justice, freedom and security, because the citizens must be secure in this area, and that the Commission will have its right to initiative returned so that progress can be made logically and coherently. Mr President, we know that terrorism is a field which requires international cooperation and, since I come from a country that has suffered greatly from terrorism, I also know that cooperation in combating terrorism and any action which is taken must show full respect for the system of society which the terrorists want to eliminate. That is what we are trying to defend, not the work of the terrorists. It is absurd to express that suspicion. That is not the problem. The problem, Mr President, is that Parliament has been facing an intolerable situation with regard to the decisions the Commission has been taking in this field. First it announced a type of agreement on which we could express no opinion, then it told us that there would be an international agreement and it turns out that this international agreement is being reached without the obligation to consult Parliament. It should be no surprise that we are asking for the same prerogatives for this House as are enjoyed by the United States Congress in this field. We in plenary and in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market have decided to consult the Court of Justice on the international agreement because we have doubts about the form and the content of what the Commission has done. Unlike Mr Hernández Mollar, I do not believe that a Spanish citizen prefers to face a situation in which they have no defence when they are not allowed to enter the United States because they are under an unfounded suspicion, of terrorism for example. In such circumstances, they will have nowhere to turn to in such a serious situation which may threaten their job, for example. I do not believe they will be less protected without the system. I do not believe that is the case. What we are asking the Commission is that it ensure that the rules are respected. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask a question. Mr Patten has said in passing that the United States already received the information it wanted. Can you tell me from whom it receives it and, if it knew, what the Commission has done to prevent it? – Mr President, firstly allow me to congratulate the two rapporteurs, Mrs Karamanou and Mrs Klamt, and also in particular to congratulate the Commission on its proposal. For years this Parliament has wanted clear and common legislation for combating the trafficking and exploitation of human beings, which are odious and widespread crimes. We do not wish to be aware of it, but we only have to look at what is happening with prostitution in our countries to see what is going on. The European Commission’s proposal to define the crime in a common manner and harmonise penalties is truly a step forward in the direction proposed by the United Nations in its Palermo protocol, and I am pleased to accept it. However, having debated Mrs Gradin’s proposals in this House, which of course have been very useful to some others, such as the United States, which already have federal legislation to combat human trafficking, I must express my great concern at the Council’s attitude at its last meeting. There was no agreement on this proposal, whereas we saw remnants of legislation proposed by France, on the entry of people without documentation, go ahead, when it is clear that the trafficking and exploitation of human beings is one of the gravest of crimes. It is much more serious than the issue dealt with at the Council meeting. I do not understand it, and nor does anybody else, because no explanation has been given. I would like to ask, Mr President, whether tomorrow at the vote the Council will come to explain its position to us, what it intends to do, and whether it intends to introduce any amendments and, if so, which ones. Or, have we instead reached a point of such harmony between the institutions of this Union that, without my realising it, there is only one executive, the Commission, and only one legislative body, Parliament, and that the Council has no part to play. – Madam President, I would like to speak against this proposal. We had initially heard that it was not possible to vote on the Valdivielso report because Commissioner Patten was not here. It now turns out that Commissioner Patten is here and it seems to me that any technical problem that there may have been, and I am aware of that possibility, could be resolved by the Parliament services within no more than 2 or 3 hours. I would therefore ask that the vote on the MEDA regulation be included in this part-session and if the services really need one more day to resolve the technical problems, that the vote be delayed for one day. However, it seems to me that the groups have debated this sufficiently, it has been on the table for too long now and I believe that there is no reason why it cannot be voted on during this part-session and in the presence, as we had asked so many times, of Commissioner Patten, whom I would like to thank for being here. – Mr President, before beginning my speech, I would propose the following exercise, both to the people who are present and to those who are absent, because there is nobody here from the Council, although there should be. Imagine from now on that you are included in the scope of this directive and that we are talking about your husbands, wives and children. I believe that would be a good exercise. Secondly, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Cerdeira Morterero. She had a very difficult job to do. The Commission's first proposal was well received by this House. We made certain proposals which have not been taken into account, and not only that, but as a result of the debates of the absent Council we have received a new proposal which we do not like nearly so much. Despite this, the rapporteur has made an effort to find a way to move forward, since we believe this is a very important element of immigration policy which should be established as soon as possible. We therefore accept many of the new proposals presented to us, we accept the basis on which they are founded, we accept the idea of having to demonstrate the capacity to maintain the family, we are prepared to wait for an agreement on a new proposal on subsidiary protection, but there are certain things which, despite everything, we cannot accept. We cannot accept a limitation of entry for minor children for any reason, and this appears obvious to us. We cannot accept the extension of time limits and we cannot accept – we do not like it at all – the number of exceptions which, despite the goodwill of the Commission, appear in the proposal. Despite this, and without much success, we in the PSE are prepared to reach an agreement and continue talking. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said, we are talking about family life. I imagine that the PPE-DE agrees that this is the basis of our society. We cannot accept a proposal which raises to three years – and three years and nine months if we include the procedure – the period during which a man and more and more often a woman – please bear this in mind – has to wait before having their children with them? Do you know what happens to a child between four and seven years old or between seven and twelve years old? Is it reasonable to create so much disquiet amongst people who we want to live within our society? I would like to pose a question: would it not be better to recognise that we human beings live in families? Could we not create laws which make it easier for families to enter? Would this not be more practical? In exchange, I would be prepared to talk about the inclusion in the quotas of people who come to work, inclusion in the open coordination method, and in these quotas, of people who come for purposes of family reunification. But I believe that that would really be a more practical policy in terms of integrating these citizens into our society. –  On 19 November 1999, the European Parliament adopted its position on the proposal for a Eurodac regulation. In the document that was approved by Parliament we called for several amendments, among others, that the minimum age for taking fingerprints be set at 18. We also expressed our concern regarding the extension of Eurodac’s scope to third-country nationals and illegal immigrants, whose situation, in our view, has nothing to do with the application of the Dublin Convention. The Socialist Group voted accordingly in that particular Parliament vote and hopes that the Commission and the Council will accept our proposals. The reason why Parliament is once again debating the matter today is because the Council has amended the original proposal regarding the conferring of competences for implementing Eurodac, so that such competences, as provided for in the Treaties, will no longer be conferred on the Commission but retained by the Council. Mr Pirker, the rapporteur, opted to comment only on the part of the report that had been amended. The Socialist Group accepted this proposal, which is why we, together with the Liberal Group, abstained from voting today on all of the amendments that do not refer to this new consultation. We welcome the outcome of the vote regarding the conferring of competences which, as we and the vast majority of Parliament understand it, should be given to the Commission. We should like to reiterate the fact that we hope that the Council and the Commission will take the two positions adopted by the European Parliament into account when it comes to making the final decision on the Eurodac regulation. Mr President, if I may, I would like to say a few words on this issue, although I do not belong to the Italian Left, because, like many Members of other nationalities and from other groups, such as Mrs Boogerd-Quaak, I have been concerned about this issue. The Charter of Fundamental Rights states that plurality is essential to the functioning of democracy. What this House has observed is an undeniably increasing unease amongst large sectors of information professionals and large sectors of the public with regard to the information they receive through the media. The concentration of private media organisations in a few hands and the misuse of the public media by public authorities, by governments, are the two central concerns in this field. So this is even worse when both concerns come together, or when a political position and a business interest in the media coincide. Community legislation, Mr President, should take account of this need for plurality and should have instruments for actively defending it. This is what this House proposes in the report by Mrs Boogerd-Quaak, whom I would like to thank for her effort and patience. Mr President, I believe that the Commission and the Member States should study these proposals and accept them or, at least, tell us what they think of them. I believe this would be well received by this House and by the citizens. I believe, Mr President, that the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, until the day it voted on this report in committee, voted and worked as it has done over the last five years, that is to say, in a reasonable and sensible way, listening – something which I believe is not very common in this Parliament today – listening to each others arguments. This is going to be my final speech in this plenary, because I have chosen not to return in the next Parliament and I would like to thank the Chairman of the committee, Jorge Hernández Mollar, for the way in which he has led the committee to date and also on this extremely difficult issue. To return to the issue we are dealing with, I do not wish to end without saying – and this is the fundamental issue – that the citizens, Mr President – and they have demonstrated this in recent days in my country, in Spain – when they believe that information is subject to intolerable manipulation, react. I am therefore optimistic in this area. I hope that the institutions can act in the way the citizens expect us to act. Mr President, I have suggested that the groups do not take the floor. I believe this suggestion makes sense. We can reflect and work on it later on. This is the worst terrorist attack in the European Union to date. We have plenty of time. Today we are simply making a suggestion and a gesture which I believe to be appropriate. Please let us vote on the amendment and let us not turn something which was a gesture into an absurd and out-of-place discussion. . –  Mr President, I shall not take up much of the House’s time. I would simply like to thank the staff very much for the speed with which they have worked. I would also like to thank the political groups for their capacity for dialogue on this issue of immigration, which is normally controversial but which requires the agreement of all of us in order to impose common sense and useful policies. Many thanks also to the spokesmen of the groups for their availability, which enabled us to vote on this report before the Thessaloniki Summit. – Mr President, firstly, I would like to associate myself with my group’s concern at this proliferation of partial and fragmented measures, which are sometimes incompatible with the Treaties and almost always incompatible with the Community approach, and about which we are uncertain as to whether they come from the Member States or from the Council. As some speeches have demonstrated, these responses are dangerous because they offer false and apparently simple solutions to problems which are real and complex. I believe these types of proposal – and we shall see more in the course of the morning – are completely unviable without a global framework which implements the decisions of the European Council in Tampere. It must implement all of them, as the Commission is trying to do. The Council’s tendency to introduce repressive aspects, when the reference frameworks for an essential common immigration policy are still not clear, is a problem, Mr President. The Commission has presented us with a document which intends to deal with the problem of human trafficking. I would like the Commission to also provide us with a document which defines both human trafficking and common penalties, and that this should fall within the framework of a common immigration policy. Mr President, we are going to penalise carriers who carry people lacking the appropriate documents. This is good. All traffickers in human beings know that they are committing a crime. Absolutely all of them know it. I do not believe, however, that we are going to stop them through this kind of measure. I regret the rapporteur’s position on this issue, because our committee has normally shown a degree of unanimity in not accepting this kind of proposal. Furthermore, with regard to this one, I have certain particular concerns which have been expressed here: the increased responsibility for control on the part of private individuals, and the serious and real problem of refugees. I do not believe that carriers are guardian angels and they are not going to accept the possibility of penalties when they are helping people who are truly in danger. I think we should bear this in mind. Mr President, my group has therefore decided, by majority, to request the rejection of this proposal and for the French and Swedish Presidencies to ask the Commission to present a global proposal on a future common immigration policy for the Union. –  Mr President, I should like to say to Mr Tajani, who has accused my Group of criticising and being against his government and Italy, that only the first part of what he said is true and that the confusion between criticism of the government and criticism of the country, nation or its people is the first step on a very dangerous path, which in Europe we all know very well. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on the effort he has made to improve this report. In recent years, Europe has had to face situations which we thought had been eradicated once and for all in our part of the world. In view of these events, I believe that we can no longer ignore our moral and political obligation to establish mechanisms to deal with a humanitarian catastrophe, when all other prevention mechanisms fail. The European Union must act as one on this. I wish to say on behalf of my group that we are in favour of distributing responsibilities amongst the Member States. I am not going to use the word burden because, having seen the faces of men and women in refugee camps in Macedonia, who are just like you and me, Mr President, it seems to me to be horrendous and repugnant to call them a burden. I believe that it in doing this we must take clear account of the situation and show a degree of flexibility, which the rapporteur acknowledges, simply to listen to the will of the refugees and to prevent them, as a result of their temporarily weak position, from effectively becoming a burden to be transported to where we, completely regardless of their views, decide. I also wish to congratulate the rapporteur on the effort which he has made to clarify the time periods, to clarify that, in this case, it is especially important to respect the time periods within which things are decided, and to support the amendment which our group has presented in order to specify and to reduce these time periods. In relation to family reunification, I wish to say to Mr Nassauer that I do not understand this obsession you have. The Right has convinced us, even the most stubborn of the Leftists, that the family is a necessary asset and an important pillar of our society. Is this only the case for Europeans? Mr Nassauer, are you on the Right going to leave your mother or brother in a situation of special need if a violent situation arises in your countries? Can we not, for temporary protection, take account of these especially serious situations which can cause particular anguish, and bring these people to the European Union together with their families? I truly believe that we can take account of them. With regard to the definition of the family, it seems to me that the Commission’s position that each Member State should apply its own definition of the family is more than reasonable and we are going to support this position. I hope that the Council does not make us wait another four years for a decision on this issue. I believe that Mr Wiebenga did not realise that he was taking on such a great responsibility when he produced his first report and that he will not mind being rapporteur for this issue for life. – Madam President, I feel compelled to respond to the things that have been said in this House with regard to the position of the Group of the Party of European Socialists on this issue. Mr Schmitt, there is absolute agreement in my group that the three different groups of people arriving in the Union should be dealt with differently. So much so that we supported the Wiebenga report with regard to the first group that you mentioned, with a view to creating regulations on reception for temporary refugees, who come in massive numbers fleeing from conflict, which is something the European Peoples’ Party did not do. With regard to asylum and refuge, we agree that we should treat asylum seekers as a group of people seeking protection and who want to enter for humanitarian reasons on an equal basis with those seeking reunification with their families. The problem is, Mr Schmitt, that my group cannot renounce, despite what you claim Mr Shily, the German Interior Minister, says, the idea that refugees are individuals and that each case must be treated individually in accordance with personal circumstances and not nationality, as well as the safe non-EU country they have reached, for example. A non-EU country may be safe for one individual but not for another, but do not force me to give examples, since these are always odious. We cannot relinquish this idea and furthermore, at a time when the European Union is going to produce the first harmonised legislation on refugees, we want to send a clear signal that we are in favour of this common legislation but not in order to reduce levels of protection and rights of asylum seekers, a field in which the European Union has been an historic example and has greatly assisted organisations such as the UNHCR and others. With regard to the issue of asylum and immigration, there is no doubt that we agree that immigrants are not refugees. But the problem is that we lack the courage to create clear immigration laws, which would allow the legal entry of people which our society and our labour market can absorb, without destroying the asylum system in the process, which has been the only open door for many years. We are in absolute agreement on this. This is our position and it seems very clear to me. –  Mr President, I would like you to take note of my strong protest at the conditions under which this debate is to be held. I am not referring to the absence of the Minister, although this is also a problem, but to the systematic manner in which the Conference of Presidents organises debates relating to the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, amalgamating every topic into a joint debate. It seems to me to show a total lack of respect that, at the same time and for the same duration as a debate of such great importance as that on annual progress in the field of Justice and Home Affairs, we should also be debating the Hazan report on the Council report on justice and home affairs: EU priorities and policy objectives for external relations and the Watson report on a recommendation to the Council on an area of Freedom, Security and Justice: security at meetings of the European Council and other comparable events, and any other matter that may be on this Committee’s agenda. Mr President, this is the same as if we were to debate the assignment of radio frequencies and the association agreement with Egypt at the same time because they are both the remit of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy. I hope that more respect will be shown in future. – Madam President, in agreement with the rapporteur and the Chairman of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, Mr Watson, I would like to present an oral amendment to this compromise amendment, which would add a first sentence. In English, it is worded as follows: Mr President, I would ask you to apply Rule 68(3) of the Rules of Procedure in this case, which lays down that, in the event of an initiative being rejected, it should be referred back to committee. I am making this request because yesterday in this House Commissioner Vitorino announced two substantial amendments to the initiative, which I believe should be subject to further analysis in committee and, furthermore, this is laid down as an ordinary procedure in the Rule I have mentioned. – Mr President, I believe that this debate is appropriate at the end of the five-year period for which MEDA was programmed, but I also believe that we are going to have time to discuss this new regulation, which at the moment is being debated in this House. What I mean to say is that, in any event, I share the Commission’s concern and I think the proposal to simplify the procedures is a positive one. I hope that this Parliament will support it. In the few seconds allocated to me, I will simply refer to two aspects which I believe should be dealt with urgently in relation to the MEDA programmes. Firstly, decentralised cooperation and the activities generated by the Barcelona Process between the most active social operators from the non-Community Mediterranean countries and the European Union. These are projects, which, as well as having intrinsic value, create growth in the social sectors in these countries. It seems essential to me, since we want an area of free trade and prosperity, and since we also want to push decisively for democratisation in this area in the southern Mediterranean, that we support the men and women who are trying to work in this field. We must put an end to the poor esteem in which they currently hold the Union and we must once again ensure that their expectations and ambitions are supported by the Union. I believe furthermore that the Commission must have sufficient human and material resources to do so. The second issue which concerns me is the inclusion of immigration in the regulation. I am concerned about how this issue will be dealt with in the Mediterranean area. We must not only create agreements on the readmission clauses, and not only provide resources for guarding borders. We must also, by means of imagination and new measures, create the capacity for co-partnership with these countries, so that we can adopt a legal approach to the issue of immigration and so that people do not simply feel that we have closed the border to them but that they can move freely within this free trade area. – Mr President, I could at this point make an exceedingly short contribution – so short that it would consist of the single word ‘no’. No to these three initiatives. And yet here we are, going through the motions of a debate all over again. The authors of the proposal are absent so we are having a pleasant chat with the Commissioner on the subject, as he pointed out just now. Consequently, I think I will take advantage of the time allotted to me under the Rules of Procedure to make a few remarks. They will appear in the Minutes and should then reach the Council. Firstly, I should like to thank the rapporteurs for the work they have put into carrying out a thorough legal analysis of the proposals. Their authors often seem to neglect to do so. I shall deal separately with Mr Nassauer’s report because I think the other two reports concern different issues. With regard to Mr Nassauer’s report, I should like to reiterate what I said earlier this morning. All too often we are presented with apparently simple proposals concerning very real and complex problems. Obviously, if you tell someone who is not that familiar with our literature that a person who has been expelled from one Member State should be expelled from all Member States, that first person is bound to agree. It seems sensible and logical. However, things are not that straightforward. An individual’s human rights have to be respected. So for this to come about a clear legal framework is needed, an effective common immigration policy, and an awareness of how and why a decision on expulsion should be dealt with in all Member States. I must congratulate Mr Nassauer on not having been taken in by the apparent simple-mindedness, if not simplicity, enshrined in the Council’s proposal. Turning to the reports by Mr Deprez and Mrs Frahm, I have to say that I think we really are in a very worrying position. These two Members have already explained far better than I could the technical and legal reasons why they advocate rejection of this proposal. I should, however, like to refer to a matter which seems to me to be of the highest political importance. The proposal considered by Mr Deprez contains the following sentence, “Because Member States have an enhanced role in respect of the development of visa policy”. This reflects the political sensitivity of the matter, in particular where relations with third countries are involved. It is used to support the argument that the Council should have the right to exercise implementing powers in this area. I find this very worrying. I believe it is a matter of great concern as we discuss a common visa list and are already implementing the free movement of persons. Will both Parliament and the Commission be called on again to come to the defence of the principle of freedom of movement and the Community bases for the implementation of this principle? Will we have to re-enact debates held prior to 1992? I trust the Council will take due note so that we can avoid doing so. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this debate serves as a timely continuation of the debate we held in Parliament first thing this morning on the issue of terrorism in Spain. Today we learned of the death, very near to where I live, of another person who worked of his own free will in the world of politics: a local councillor. I say that this debate is a timely continuation of this morning’s debate because, as John Hume has so often reminded us in Parliament, all conflicts are linked to the notion of difference, all conflicts focus on what we do not accept in others. John Hume has also reminded us on many occasions in Parliament that the European Union is and must continue to be an example of conflict resolution. One could say that the European Union today is the practical expression of the exact opposite to the notions of terrorism and racism. This is why I believe that Europe has to go to the World Conference Against Racism having adopted a strong and common position, a position that has been tried and tested on other occasions, the first of which was the application in the European Union of the United Nations Convention of 1965. However, Mr President, I think there is another, more important issue that we must tackle without delay. We cannot allow the radicals in Spain – in El Ejido – in Italy, Germany or Austria to take the initiative in this field. We must talk to the people of Europe and we must – as has been achieved in the directive against discrimination – make progress on all of the other objectives of the Tampere European Council. Lastly, I should like to congratulate Baroness Ludford on her report and let her know that we intend to seriously examine its proposals. We have to accept that these days Europe is a more pluralistic place than it used to be and we must let the world know that we are pleased that this is the case. – Mr President, first of all, I should like to say that my group is genuinely delighted that the two Watson reports have today been adopted at second reading. One on the European arrest warrant and the surrender procedures between the Member States, and the other on a common definition of terrorism. We accept the outcome of the Laeken Summit and my group feels that it contains everything that Parliament has been calling for in the first Watson report. I congratulate the Belgian Presidency on approving this document, despite the problems that some delegations raised and I should like to reiterate our congratulations to the Council and the Commission and our happiness at the adoption of these texts. Therefore, we will be voting in favour of one Watson report, which does not include amendments to the text, which we feel was consolidated at the last Summit. We will be doing so for the reasons that I have explained, but I should now like, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you why we will be voting against the amendments that have been tabled. There is a set of amendments tabled by Members of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that seek to make approval of the arrest warrant conditional on improvements to certain judicial standards in the European Union. We agree with the aim of these amendments, but we do not accept the imposition of conditions. We also think that the adoption of an instrument as revolutionary as the European arrest warrant must motivate the States of the European Union to make this improvement to their judicial standards. The order in which we are working could, at least, be practical and produce some positive results. Other amendments, tabled by other Members, seek, from the establishment of a European  act to other objectives with which we also agree, but we do not feel that this is the appropriate legal instrument to guide them. We are going to work, and I commit my group to this here today, to ensure that these objectives are, in future, met and we shall do so in conjunction with the Commission and the Council. Here they will find us, supporting them in their initiatives, on which we might table proposals ourselves, but I do not believe that the time is right for voting in favour of these amendments. I was saying, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that my group is pleased at the approval of these two instruments. Furthermore, we consider these instruments to be our own, because this Parliament – as you reminded us – has put a great deal of work into achieving this. Therefore – as you have said – we find it difficult to accept the way in which on 27 December decisions were taken on the four legislative instruments to establish a list of terrorists in the European Union. I am happy with what you have said and I hope that we are able to re-establish constructive dialogue and maintain our relationship of trust. I also join Mr Watson in asking for the instruments of cooperation in criminal matters to be brought within the first pillar. I am sure that between all of us, we will be able to overcome the democratic deficit from which we are obviously suffering Mr President, I have no respect for those who seek to take the lives of others in order to achieve their aims. None at all. In my view, no effort to put an end to this is too great. On the other hand, however, I have the greatest respect for our democratic system and rights, and also believe that Parliament has an obligation to defend them with the same enthusiasm. – Mr President, as the rapporteur, Mr Pirker, has said, this Parliament has already expressed its opinion more than once on the proposed Eurodac Agreement. Last time it expressed its opinion on the proposal as a whole and I believe that the position Parliament adopted was very close to what the Socialist Group wanted. I wish to defend Parliament’s position, which this House voted for a few months ago in relation to the Eurodac Agreement. I therefore believe that we are now being consulted on an amendment which the Council is introducing in this communication, and that it affects the allocation of competences for this action by the Council. The Treaty established that the Commission must have responsibility for implementation – for Eurodac also, we believe – and also established that Parliament can supervise what the Commission does. This still does not seem sufficient to us, and we hope that, at least in the legislative and supervisory field, we can have further competences. For this reason, my Group is tomorrow going to abstain in the vote on all the amendments which do not relate to this change to the Council’s communication. We are going to abstain on those amendments which we feel have already been approved by Parliament and which are already included in this Parliament’s previous report. We are going to abstain for reasons which I imagine are very different from Mr Pirker’s reasons for voting against it, but we are going to abstain in order to maintain the position which Parliament has already expressed. However, on behalf of my group, I would like to express my support for the amendments proposed by Mr Pirker, for the reasons which I have already expressed, because I believe that the previous proposal was better and because I believe that the Commission must take this project forward. I hope that it does so taking account of Parliament’s decision and it is important that tomorrow’s vote shows Parliament’s strong support for the previous proposal. Mr President, we are developing a third pillar on the basis of policies which have been intergovernmental and which must become Community policies. I believe it is very important for Parliament to support these first actions we are taking and also to support the Commission so that it can play the role accorded it by the Treaty. – Madam President, I really do not understand the rejection which has been expressed in this House, but I fear that we are going to see the same thing again and I am therefore not presenting this oral amendment. We are going to try to make it clear through our explanations of vote that the recourse to Article 40 is just a way of saying that those who do not wish to be involved in the commitment made by the Council on 21 September and 19 October are going to be isolated. Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, there is a statement by the President-in-Office of the Council which could appear positive but which worries me very much. You have spoken, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, of new common initiatives at European level in the field of immigration. Do you know why it worries me? Because we have not yet reached any agreement on any of the old European common initiatives in the field of immigration. It worries me enormously that we are increasing the volume of paperwork that we already have in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs  on European initiatives in this field without achieving any results. There is just one single Directive (of those proposed by the Commission), just one, on which an agreement has been reached: the one on family regrouping. And it is a compendium of exceptions – there are more exceptions than there are Member States – and it is such a weak Directive that we will have to wait to see what this Parliament does with it. Because, in reality, what it has generated inside and outside this Parliament is enormous frustration. We need agreements on what the Commission has already proposed in relation to the legal framework for the management of legal immigration. We do not need a lot more ideas: they are all on the table. I am worried also because when we talk about new initiatives, we talk about somersaults. Somersaults like the one the President of the Commission has communicated to us and which is entitled ‘European fund for the return of immigrants’. This leaves me entirely perplexed. Can you explain to me the added value of action relating to the return of immigrants? Can you explain to me what contribution will be made by a European fund which cannot be created at the moment by the Member States, who have full competence in the field of return? Are you telling me that they cannot exercise these competences because they do not have sufficient money to do so and that we therefore need a European fund in order to implement the national competence of expelling citizens who are here illegally? I really do not understand this. I am however in agreement, and I think it is a good idea, with the common management of borders. I do actually believe that we need to do something here, and I would be in favour of supporting the Commission's proposal. I would like to end by saying that an element of border control relates to immigration and another which relates to crime, as you have said. I am very much in favour of combating organised crime and I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, whether, in this field and within the field of justice and home affairs, you believe you will be able to implement the European arrest warrant before the date set, as planned by this House and the Council? –  Madam President, I come from a country that has been stunned by the most atrocious totalitarian horror, which seeks to spread terror by indiscriminate and relentless killings. I can say, with pride, looking at my colleague Bárbara Dührkop, and at so many victims, and almost with emotion, that in my country, nobody has given into the temptation of implementing or asking for emergency measures. Something that has never been understood and which no one has ever been able to tolerate in Spain is that once murderers have crossed a border that, theoretically, no longer exists, they are not pursued with the same vigour with which they are pursued in Spain. There is no technical reason, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, that can justify this, and no European citizen will accept the explanation that, for technical reasons, we are unable to make progress on tracking down terror and crime. A common definition of the crime of terrorism and common sanctions are needed, as we have heard the Commission say so many times, to prevent there being safe havens in Europe where criminals can escape prosecution. These measures would also send out a clear political message of the European Unions’ commitment to this issue. We can say the same of the proposal for the mutual recognition of final decisions that we have agreed to call the European search and arrest warrant. We support the Commission’s proposals for improvements on extradition between Member States and the elimination of the double jeopardy rule. I also hope that the Council will take Parliament’s wishes into consideration. I think, Madam President, that extending judicial cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crime is the way to become more effective whilst not reducing, by any means, the very freedom that terrorists and criminals are seeking to destroy. Mr President, I should like to take this opportunity to clarify the reasons why my group voted in favour of the Pirker report. In our view it is of the utmost importance that the Commission’s communication be favourably received. The Laeken Council has the political duty of revitalising the process launched by the Tampere European Council. As evidenced by the data supplied by EUROSTAT, the citizens believe that the European Union must adopt a common immigration policy. Amongst other provisions, our group has included the right of long-term residents to vote in local elections. We have also contrived to build in clearly defined responsibilities for the European Union. For all these reasons, and also to express our strong support for the Commission, we have voted in favour, even though our views differ markedly from some of those expressed by the rapporteur. We trust the communication will be favourably received at the Laeken Council. We regret that some right-wing Members have referred to terrorism and immigration in the same breath during the debate. This gives rise to mistrust of immigrants and Muslim refugees. – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, our timetable means that it falls to you to hold the Presidency during a six-month period which is key to the implementation of the European arrest warrant, a request of this Parliament, a request of my country, Spain. I would ask you please to do everything necessary to make it possible. The European Union must contribute its own approach to the fight against terrorism, particularly since we have seen recently that the military approach has its limitations. It also has it limitations in relation to the issue of immigration. Through military means we resolve nothing, and I am not talking about rights, I am talking about effectiveness. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is nothing easier than to criticise the immigration policy of the current government. You, Italy, are a clear example. You attacked the last government on the issue of immigration, and now you are faced with the same or worse problems and you do not even need the opposition to say so: they say it within your own government. You ask us not to bring Italian arguments here. Let us make a pact: I would ask you exactly the same thing. Do not raise the tone by bringing the problems you cannot resolve nationally to the seat of the European Union. Do not bring the Italian debate on immigration here. We do not need it. We do not need an escalation of press headlines. Instead, we need to continue with the Thessaloniki conclusions, with their content and with the tone in which they have been written. We need to establish an admission policy, a policy on border control, on integration – a word which has disappeared from your programme – and dialogue with third countries, not on illegal immigration, but on immigration, on all aspects of immigration. In a measured and rational tone, without mixing up illegality, security and legality, without insinuations which are always at play, not because it is not politically correct, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but because then we would fail in our management of immigration and in the fight against crime and we cannot afford to do that. – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, firstly I would like to thank the Presidency-in-Office of the Council for their high level presence in this House and for their positive attitude. Last year, this Parliament was consulted twice about the establishment of a system for comparing fingerprints. In principle, the system is intended to correctly implement the Dublin Convention. On 13 April 1999, this Parliament rejected the Council’s proposal to extend the Eurodac system to illegal immigrants by means of a protocol. This Parliament was then consulted again in accordance with the provisions of Amsterdam. We were once again told that this system has to be developed in order to correctly implement the Dublin Convention. This seems all very well to me, with the limits introduced by Parliament in its last report, with the amendments which ranged from our reservations about the inclusion of children under 14 in the system to the request that this Eurodac system be only applied to the Dublin Convention. Given that we have been informed that none of our suggestions are going to be accepted, I would like to ask the Council whether it is prepared to hold a genuine dialogue with Parliament. This is not a trivial question. We are beginning to build and implement the instruments for the ‘communitisation’ of the area of freedom, security and justice and, as we will never tire of saying in this House, this cannot be done without the national parliaments and without the European Parliament, because these issues are far too important to the citizens not to be endorsed through a strong social consensus. The other question I would like to ask the Council is whether it agrees that this system should be administrated by the Commission, in which case the Commission should be provided with adequate staff and resources. Returning to the content of the report, the non-acceptance of Parliament’s amendments and the ambiguity of some of its provisions, as well as certain information that I have received, lead me to ask you, and to insist once again, what exactly are the Council’s intentions with regard to the scope and functions of the Eurodac system. I would like to ask why other foreign nationals have been included and, especially, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, whether the Council has any intention to extend the use of the Eurodac system beyond the application of the Dublin Convention. I await your responses to this question and I would like to thank you once again for coming to answer this oral question before the debate on the new Eurodac Regulations, which I hope will also reach this House. – Mr President, I am grateful for the Council’s oral, and also written, reply. Their efficiency has been truly remarkable. I will save a few seconds because I wanted to propose to the Council that we continue the debate at the next meeting of the Committee on Citizens’ Rights and Freedoms, Justice and Home Affairs. Then we will have the opportunity to comment on these replies and to express our concerns to the Commission as well. Personally, I am pleased with some of the replies, for example, in relation to issues as sensitive as Schengen and the Europol Convention, which we hope will be reviewed, and I am pleased with the words of the Minister for Justice with regard to trying to bring them under the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities. I also hope that the same is done in relation to parliamentary control. Representatives of the Council, within the next month we are going to table a motion for a resolution in this Parliament. I am sure that, with the willingness that you have shown today, the first thing you will do, in this new climate of understanding between us, will be to take account of the motion for a resolution which we will submit to you. –  Mr President, I feel I must request the floor because I find this situation intolerable and wish to protest at the great number of speeches from large political groups in this Chamber that have sought, this morning, to link terrorism with immigration, asylum seekers and, more than once and in a direct manner, immigration of Islamic origin. This seems a very irresponsible attitude to me, a time-bomb threatening peaceful coexistence, and I would like to remind you all that many a terrorist with white skin has been born to the world from our own European continent. – Mr President, firstly, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteurs, Mr Valdivielso and Mr Piétrasanta, and say that I share the views of Mr Piétrasanta and Mr Naïr. The deep schism that divides the Mediterranean world is obvious. The Conference of Barcelona was the European Union’s reaction to it. We should now be working at a steady speed to achieve the aims established there, but that is not the case. Many reasons have been given for this. The MEDA programmes have always been surrounded by too much fuss, and they still are. It is totally pointless to return dwell on this fuss. I prefer to look forward. The Commission has proposed a new MEDA regulation and in it asks us for speedier decision-making procedures. We agree absolutely with this. My group and Parliament – if we reflect the vote of the relevant committee – proposes to place more trust in the Commission so that it may decide on projects of less than EUR 5 million and we also ask that the Commission be accompanied by a Council advisory committee. Of course, the Council and Parliament cannot expect the Commission to do things which they do not give it the power to do. In this regard you have our support, Commissioner. You also have our support – and this is expressed in the amendments we are tabling – in order to solve any problems relating to staffing and to management ability that you may have. I would like to remind you, Commissioner, that the Barcelona agreements talk about an area of free trade and economic cooperation and of security and they also talk a great deal about the cultural and human dimension. Commissioner, I believe that in order to develop these three pillars on an equal footing with one another, we must continue to show our confidence in Mediterranean society and, far from ending decentralised cooperation and small projects, we should implement these effectively and by incorporating all the players: entrepreneurs, unions, cities, NGOs, immigrants – as Mr Naïr pointed out – professionals etc. I wish to believe that we share the aim of reducing the gulf between the, at least two, Mediterranean worlds. To this end, Commissioner, we ask, and my group will act in accordance with this request in the budgetary debate, for the restoration in the regulation of the amounts allocated to MEDA, so that these will remain at least equal in real terms to those allocated during the previous period. While the problems in the Mediterranean remain serious, and there has been considerable delay in implementing the Barcelona decisions that were designed to tackle them, we cannot accept a reduction in investment. –  Mr President, Commissioners, this Parliament has reacted after the attention of President Prodi, President Simitis and Mr Hernández Mollar was drawn to the matter by a source as authoritative as the chairman of the Article 29 committee. The Commission, on the other hand, tells us that these are simply misunderstandings. I must say that, now that these misunderstandings have been cleared up, I am even more concerned. I come from a Member State which knows that measures to combat terrorism must be established, but which also knows – only too well – that this must be done within strict respect for legality and for the law unless we wish to hand final victory to the terrorists. You tell us that the airlines are being pressured by the action of the United States Administration, which is forcing them to breach European legislation. If this is the case, the airlines have the right to claim protection from their authorities, as do, it goes without saying, the Union’s citizens. The Commissioner says that no agreement or decision has been reached and that, therefore, there is no legal basis for such action. Commissioner, this is precisely what we are complaining about; this is precisely the question we are asking: what has been done to give the United States the idea that they can undertake unilateral action? What have we done to allow this to happen? You ask us to take a positive view of the Commission’s actions by saying that data protection – a right recognised in the Charter of Fundamental Rights – and the loss of jobs or the penalties that airlines might suffer must be seen in a balanced way. I genuinely believe that this is an acceptance of blackmail and I find this situation surprising. Is the European Union unable to respond in a reciprocal way, to say that some things are not acceptable and might face countermeasures? I have the impression that what we are seeing reflects the attitude of a female character from a Spanish novel who, convinced that she lives under the absolute authority of her husband, is happy because he beats her ‘no more than usual’. In my view, this is unacceptable and this attitude must change. As most of the groups in this House are calling for, we must stop implementing decisions that have been taken, either by the Union together with the United States or by the United States alone, and attempt this time to conclude, with the means of pressure available to us and with our legislation – which must prevail – an agreement that ensures the secure processing of our data and correctly inform Parliament and, above all, our citizens, of this agreement. – Mr President, on behalf of my colleague, Mrs Carmen Cerdeira, who has been the shadow rapporteur for this report and who regrets that she cannot be here today, I would like to explain the position of the Socialist Group. You know – and I would like to give you an example – that more and more people within the European Union are crossing the borders of their States. In 1999, 250 million people did so. This situation means that citizens who are moving around run the risk of becoming victims of crime both inside and outside the territory of their States of residence, and this may be anything from robbery to, on occasions, terrorist crimes, a scourge which still strikes cruelly within the European Union. There is no doubt that this Green Paper and the reports we are approving today represent progress in terms of removing the physical national borders in relation to the victims of crime. We must ensure that within the Union’s area of freedom, security and justice the citizens are given genuine access to justice so that they may benefit from adequate legal protection in any part of the Union’s territory. For this reason, the Europe of the citizens does not make sense unless we first adopt, amongst others, the necessary measures to improve and take account of the rights of the victims of crime as well, seen from a global perspective. Any person, including third-country nationals, who has been a direct or indirect victim of a crime in the territory of any Member State of the Union must receive the same minimum level of treatment. The European Union cannot accept that a person may receive different treatment depending on the Member State within which they have been a victim of crime or depending on their nationality. My group believes that compensating victims is a fundamental aspect which must be at the heart of European cooperation in the fight against crime. I welcome the Commission’s report and also the report by Mrs Angelilli, whom I congratulate on her attitude and availability. I believe that all the groups will be more or less in agreement with this report. I would just like to mention a few of the points which we believe to be fundamental and which we would like to express our support for: the principle of non-discrimination included in paragraph 13; support for non-governmental organisations which work with victims on a daily basis; the conditions for dealing with and attending to victims, as I said earlier; the harmonisation of systems for compensating victims, established by the Member States, taking account of levels of income; the guarantee that all citizens and legal residents can receive compensation when they have been victims of crime, according to Community criteria. We therefore support the creation of a European body for victims, the creation of a European fund to guarantee the corresponding compensation of the victims of crimes and, of course, the establishment of harmonised forms in all the languages of the Union. I believe that we will thereby have a proposal which represents a genuine step forward. Mr President, following 11 September this Parliament worked quickly and very seriously supporting the Commission and calling on the Council for a series of measures to confront terrorism. The Union's institutions worked efficiently to achieve a common definition of the crime of terrorism and to achieve and implement the European arrest warrant. In this and other Community institutions great statements were made in favour of better police cooperation, a strengthening of the task force of police chiefs, an operative Europol under effective judicial control; furthermore, efforts were made to achieve the establishment of minimum judicial guarantees and, finally, to create a framework providing us with greater security and speed in situations such as the one which had arisen in the United States. Furthermore, this happened during the debate on the new Constitution, which was creating a framework providing significant opportunities to improve the legal area for police and judicial cooperation and to subject it to the essential parliamentary control. But the moment passed and the measures proposed only moved forward by inertia, at a pace, Mr President, which has not yet taken us anywhere. We have had to experience the recent horror in order to return to this issue in formal session, on a Wednesday morning. Mr President, on 11 March we all had a sad role to play. If there is one thing the citizens expected from us it was cooperation in order to offer certainty, and what we displayed, for various reasons, and with differing degrees of responsibility, was complete confusion. The European Commission is right to say that we do not need new ideas. We only need to implement those which are on the table, which are already boring and hackneyed. Even so we have succumbed to the temptation for a new one and we have created a ‘Mr Terrorism’, and I do not know what he will do unless we improve the global framework of mutual trust. Europe can and must act differently. We do not need a European Patriot Act. We can and must offer more security on the basis of mutual trust and close cooperation while strictly respecting the freedoms and rights that terrorism aims to destroy. I hope that the next time we talk about this we are not still drying our tears, but that we have a firm will to face up to today’s world. A world in which Europe, working to promote internal cooperation, can also offer a path and a guide in order – within the framework of the United Nations and multilateral action – to deal with the significant dangers we are facing. –  Madam President, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur for the way he has led this report. The miracle he called for will probably not take place, but that will not be because he has not tried to reach an agreement; he also knows that on some issues I personally was prepared to do so. Above all because, on these issues, nobody listens to this Parliament. Madam President, take a look at the Council’s benches: there is nobody there; take a look at the Commission’s benches: I am delighted to share this sitting with Mr Fischler, but I believe that agriculture and fisheries are not exactly what we are talking about. I think it is absolutely intolerable that we are debating a report whose departure point we know has been modified by the Council during a period when it is under consultation in this Parliament. Madam President, I believe that this is sad and would like to ask you personally to express our concern at this situation. The issue we are discussing is extremely serious. I believe that the proposals move in the right direction and I also believe that, with regard to some of Parliament’s proposals, the Group of the European Peoples’ Party is not so far from everybody else, although we do have differences of emphasis, such as the absolute importance of correct access for refugees to our society. My time is running out, but I would like to reply to Mr Pirker and Mr Coelho: I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the way to confront the extreme right is not for us to behave in the same way; that would ultimately mean victory for the extreme right and not failure. – Madam President, on behalf of my colleague, Carmen Cerdeira, who has been shadow rapporteur for this report, and who unfortunately cannot be here, I will try as far as possible to speak on behalf of my political group. Citizenship of the Union – institutionalised and created as such by the Treaty of Maastricht and later modified by the Treaty of Amsterdam – confers a series of rights and duties on the nationals of all the Member States. The intention is to associate the citizens with the process of European integration, giving them more involvement, strengthening the protection of their rights and promoting the idea of a European identity by means of the creation of a sense of belonging amongst the citizens of the Union. The citizenship rights and the Union as a whole will only have credibility amongst the citizens if they can be applied in practice in their everyday lives. Within the context of citizenship of the Union, one of the fundamental rights that citizenship confers is laid down in Article 18(1) of the Treaty, which gives every citizen of the Union the right to enter, move and reside freely in the territory of the Member States. The same right, with a similar wording, is conferred on the European citizen by Article 45(1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and this seems to us very significant. Consequently, these rights are of a constituent and not a declarative nature. In other words they are acquired regardless of any permission granted by the Member States. We welcome the Commission’s proposal, which we consider to be a genuine step forward. The movement of the Union’s citizens amongst the Member States should be carried out in conditions similar to those of the citizens of a particular State. In reality, Madam President, the Union’s citizens have taken this principle on board much more quickly and thoroughly than their governments. They have taken it on board and they exercise it. I can assure you that in my part of the Union, on the coast where I spend several days, there are many European citizens residing illegally who simply come and go between their two houses, one in their country of origin and one in my country, whenever they want and without filling out any papers. It cannot be demonstrated whether these people have spent the last six months in their house, because sometimes it is 60 km from the neighbouring country. The euro will make this even easier and more possible and I hope that progress can be made within the Commission. Therefore, my group has presented amendments that intend, once and for all, to end the consideration of the economic situation of people, giving priority to the condition of citizen, and to recognise that at this moment the citizens and their families are already exercising the right to free movement within the European Union. – Mr President, I have asked for the floor, when you have given it to the Commission, to say that what we have just rejected in this House is Mr Oostlander’s report, not the Commission’s proposal. We do not have the power to vote on the Commission’s proposal. We have rejected the report by Mr Oostlander, together with his opinion of the Commission’s proposal. – Mr President, in relation to the words of Mr Galeote, I would like to say that this morning I ate my breakfast with certain comments by the President of the European Council, in which he says that the European Socialists are guilty of promoting, through their policies, the emergence in Europe of extremist and radical movements and that, in contrast, the President of the Spanish Government and the Council expresses his desire to toughen the immigration policy. For a moment I thought this morning that Mr Rajoy would come here to communicate the good news of a new immigration policy which – according to Mr Aznar – was going to counterbalance these errors of European Socialism which have led to the emergence of the extreme right. I am delighted to see that this is not the case, that you have settled for an explanation of the conclusions of the Tampere European Council, the main approach of the European Council’s proposals over recent months. I am delighted about this and I am therefore only going to speak about this field. I believe that we also have differing points of view on this, Minister. As Mr Patten has said, we have on the table a legislative working programme – but not only that – presented by the Commission following the Tampere conclusions. Two and a half years after that Council there has been little progress. You have mentioned some progress and I will return to that. This has an impact on both the content and on interinstitutional relations. I am referring to cooperation with Parliament. I must say, Minister, that we are perplexed by situations such as the one created by the approval in the Council of the proposal on admission conditions for asylum seekers. We are perplexed because you tell us that you are going to look at what Parliament’s proposals are. I must tell you that they are proposals on a first draft which bears no relation to the one adopted and it will be difficult for us to go on working like this. We have the same problem with the common rules on entry for residence, the body of rights for third-country citizens. For us, all of this takes the form of concrete proposed directives the results of which we have not seen during these years following Tampere. You tell me that there have been results. I would like to ask you what they are. The fight against illegal immigration is a part of this immigration policy which is yet to become a common European policy, but I believe that it would be much more effective if it were part of a genuine common structure of immigration policies. I am in favour of it, but I am also in favour of an immigration policy which is better suited to the needs of the labour market, because otherwise, Minister, this lack of suitability will lead to irregular contracts, or rather a lack of contracts, and I believe that this is the worst of the ‘’ effects. Finally, and in line with the working plan proposed by the Commission and which the Council should adopt, I would like to ask the following four questions: What does the Council think of Mr Prodi’s proposal with regard to border police? What does the Council think about the Green Paper on repatriation? Can you give us a timetable for the implementation of the Tampere proposals? What does the Council think of their content given the way they have been presented by the Commission? – Mr President, when a child is born with just a father, we must not be surprised if it grows up with problems. Europe has many fathers and we have just missed the opportunity to give it a mother. I would like to talk about the assessment in Laeken on the subject of the application of justice and home affairs policies. I agree with the progress made on the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions, both in the criminal field and in the civil field, though to a lesser extent. And I must congratulate you in this respect on the content and the form of the agreement on the European arrest warrant, which affects a large number of offences and which I see as greater justice rather than greater repression. I believe we should welcome this. However, with regard to immigration and asylum, I must say that the Council’s text adopts a tone of renunciation which worries me. The analysis of the situation is sincere of course, but I do not believe that it reaches the right conclusions. Mr President, we cannot allow fifteen different immigration policies in this borderless Europe for much longer. I think that we should draw other conclusions from this situation; the conclusion that these policies require greater impetus, that we should rid ourselves once and for all of the shackles of unanimity and that we should increase this Parliament’s participation in such sensitive issues. Mr President, I believe we have demonstrated that it is possible to work with our Parliament in this field and that we must put an end to the restrictions imposed in Amsterdam. I hope that the Convention takes note of this and puts it right. I would also like to end by congratulating the Presidency on the inclusion of diversity and the idea of federalism in the Treaty and on Mr Verhofstadt’s words to this House in this regard. –  Mr President, I would like to refer to Baroness Ludford’s report. Before we deal with other aspects of immigration policy, a common status is needed for third-country nationals who are long-term residents in strict compliance with the Tampere Agreements, the aim of which was to give these third-country nationals a set of uniform rights comparable with those enjoyed by EU citizens. We need to resolve situations such as those that, in theory, hinder the free movement of third-country nationals within the EU today. For this reason my group hopes that this House will send a strong message, directed mainly at the Council, supporting the European Commission proposal. In this regard, I would personally like to thank Baroness Ludford for her work. We cannot accept some of the amendments that have been adopted in Committee or that have been submitted once again to this House. As Mrs Roure mentioned, we cannot allow subjective issues to obstruct the authority to grant this long-term resident status and, even less so, dangerous propaganda exercises that draw parallels, not between border controls and terrorism, as used to be said, but between long-term residents and terrorists, or, at the very least, terrorism. Once again we are going to defend the right for third-country nationals who are long-term residents to vote in local and European elections. I can only hope that, despite the numerous empty places on the Council benches, this message will leave Parliament and be heard. –  Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of my political group, I would like to highlight and record here that the speed at which decisions have been taken by the European Union since 11 September must be a sign of political will and the great things it can achieve. I would remind you of this because, one year on, we are worried to see that the application of these decisions is not taking place as quickly. We need political will, but – and I reiterate the words of the chairman of my committee – we also need new procedures that will enable us to fulfil the citizens’ demands. The Convention needs to address this issue and propose the necessary amendments in order to achieve a single structure that covers the area of internal justice. And this, which may appear to be incomprehensible Community jargon, means things such as being able to have a coherent legal basis – which we do not have at the moment – to be able to freeze the assets of terrorists operating within the European Union, and being able to resolve matters such as Europol. I would like to ask the Council whether, once again, we are going to allow Parliament to allocate a Community budget to Europol, and if we are going to allow that budget to remain pro memoria, without spending it, and how much longer we will be able to explain this to the citizens. I would ask you directly whether you are prepared to work towards an operational Eurojust, towards solving problems such as differing levels of data protection. I hope that you are and that you will fully involve Parliament in this work, as you did in reacting to 11 September, thereby showing this to be positive. We also believe that these measures cannot be separated from other measures designed to reinforce our society’s defence. Defence of the Rule of Law, increased citizen confidence in the institutions, democratic dialogue, great care to avoid racism and xenophobia, respect and compensation for victims – and in this regard I welcome the Commissioner’s proposal – and also a foreign policy based on these principles: strength in the fight against terrorism, strength also in the establishment of conditions that allow us to address at source situations of instability which are extremely dangerous for us all. In this regard, I would also like to ask you how the negotiations with the United States on cooperation in this field are going. I would also like to ask you whether you are going to inform Parliament of the progress of these negotiations and their result, and whether you are going to take account of Parliament’s resolution of last December in this regard. In conclusion, nobody in Europe will understand that words such as unanimity, blockage, pillars, etc., slow down our cooperation in the fight against terrorism. We need to ensure greater freedom for our citizens by safeguarding cooperation between the Member States in pursuit of greater effectiveness. – Mr President, I would firstly like to point out that it seems to me absurd to hold a joint debate in this House on the human rights situation in the world and in the European Union. My group said this in the Conference of Presidents and was only supported by the GUE/NGL Group. Furthermore, Mr President, I would like to ask you to note that I find it incredible that we are organising a debate in this way, because it seems that human rights in the world are more important to us than human rights in the European Union. The comparisons are odious and I am not talking about the victims of a lack of human rights, but we should be more concerned with dealing with what is exclusively in our hands. I would like to say to Mr Cornillet that I am grateful for his effort and his work, and I would like to ask him to consider the possibility that in the coming months, and based on his experience, we should seek amongst all of us, calmly and serenely, a method which will allow us to work in the future, taking account of his extremely valuable experience. His experience has been valuable because this is the first year that we have produced this report, after the declaration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights. I would like you to take this into account, Mr Cornillet. In my last few seconds I will speak not about methods but about content. Mr Pirker, Mr Hernández Mollar, we do not want to put forward a common immigration policy. We simply want recognition that Mr Cornillet’s report clearly demonstrates that the people most affected by violations of human rights are minorities and, especially, asylum seekers and immigrants. If human rights are deteriorating in this respect, we must put forward solutions and conclusions which reflect it. That is what we want. – Mr President, Mr Haarder, at the last Justice and Home Affairs Council, thanks to the complexity of Community procedures, you adopted a very effective measure in the fight against illegal immigration, but you probably did not realise – because it was the final point on the agenda – that, without debate, you approved the conclusion of an agreement extending and increasing the quotas for the import of tomatoes from Morocco. Apart from this decision, you have not taken any great measures, either in this Council or in any other, in relation to the field of immigration at least. We have on the table a full range of proposals from the Commission in relation to immigration policies, a proactive immigration policy, and I will not list them since I will bore Parliament if I do so in every speech. None of them have been adopted. At the European Council in Seville, without having done its homework in this field, the Council once again established priorities and time limits in relation to immigration policy. They began to talk there less about this policy and more about the fight against illegal immigration. But we have not made much progress on that either. In any event, what did happen there was to begin to talk about this in a different way which gives me some concern. They began to talk about the return of immigrants, the control of external borders, in a way in which there is not much room for many concrete proposals. There was talk of security, the term border control was introduced into this field and, listening to you, it appears that illegal immigration has to do with lack of security. If you take a walk around our cities, you will see that illegal immigration has more to do with domestic staff, people working in agriculture and people working in our restaurants. And we know who they are. To give you a figure, in my country, and in just one town close to Barcelona, L'Hospitalet, which has 800 000 inhabitants, 17 670 people have been recorded, many of them illegal immigrants. During this period, the Commission has presented two proposals which provide a global approximation of the issue, as laid down in the Tampere conclusions: the Green Paper on return, the inclusion of the immigration policy in the Union’s external policy. Of course, this global approximation must include a repressive aspect, but in order to ensure the fulfilment of an immigration policy, in order to control illegal employment – if Berlusconi will allow me – in order to establish a policy for integration of external trade. If we do not have this global approximation, if we do not focus on this approach, we are not going to be effective in the fight against illegal immigration. – Madam President, I cannot understand what the PPE wants. I understand that some Members are against the directive we are going to vote on, but the vote in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms was in favour of this directive by a clear majority. This morning we held a very fruitful debate with the Commissioner and I believe that, almost a year after the Tampere Summit, not to approve the first proposed directive on harmonisation in justice and internal affairs in the field of immigration, presented to us by the Commission, would be inexplicable and there is no justification for it. I understand that there are Members who are totally against the right of immigrants to live as families, but that is not the majority position of this House, as was reflected in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms. I therefore ask that we go ahead with the vote on this Commission proposal. –  Madam President, first of all I should like to congratulate the rapporteurs, Mr Marinho, Mrs Roure and Mrs Karamanou, on their reports concerning a complex topic which has been the subject of profound debates in this Parliament and our committee in the past. Evidence of the fact that my congratulations are not just rhetorical is that these reports gained an absolute majority of votes in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. I therefore agree with their words and the contents of their reports. Now, Madam President, in Mrs Karamanou’s absence, I should like to focus on expressing my group’s position on her report. Europol’s mandate is to prevent and combat certain forms of criminal activity. The draft Protocol we have before us, the result of an initiative by the Portuguese Presidency complementing other initiatives we have studied today, aims to extend the competences of Europol to money laundering in general. The fight against money laundering only comes into Europol’s current competences incidentally in connection with the types of crime that it deals with. The aim of the proposed revision is to establish a general framework of competence for Europol in relation to money laundering. Thus, the proposed revision incorporates in Article 2(2) the combating of money laundering as one of Europol’s new tasks. That notwithstanding, Paragraph 3 of the same article states that Europol’s competence with regard to money laundering does not extend to the original offences, i.e. the crimes which preceded the money laundering and are not included in Paragraph 2. For the rest of the draft Protocol, the usual procedure for adoption by the Member States is presented. In view of the seriousness of the money laundering problem throughout the world and its key role in the development of crime, we must approve the extension of Europol’s competence in this area. But if consultation of the European Parliament were limited to this formal aspect and we could not bring up other topics in this debate – a report without a debate – we could merely have told Europol that we agree and that it is necessary to make every means available to combat money laundering. This report is only of interest if, through debating it, Parliament can formulate considerations and proposals on the way Europol operates and on its control. At this stage, I shall restrict myself to these two types of consideration, taking it as read that we are in favour of the fight against money laundering and that Europol should deal with it, although we do not support doing so through Council decisions or on the basis of sporadic national initiatives. Focusing on these two topics, which are the only ones I am going to deal with, we might wonder how effectively Europol operates now that its competences are to be extended. What results has Europol achieved so far in the fight against money laundering within its related areas of competence? What has happened to Europol’s computer system, which was to be operational in 2001? What about the joint investigation teams which were in future to extend their role to combating money laundering? As Mr Watson has reminded us, Parliament has on several occasions expressed its discontent at the lack of any real democratic control over Europol’s activities. It has done so in the Cederschiöld and Nassauer reports. Can we today grant new competences to Europol without demanding, even if it is in this debate, a revision of Article 31 of the Convention, which limits Parliament’s role to that of being the recipient of an annual report? Should Europol’s funding not be included within the general budget of the European Union, as we have already requested? And should Parliament not be consulted on the appointment of the director of Europol? The same occurs with the lack of jurisdictional control – and later we are going to see the report on Eurojust. In conclusion, I believe this report is meaningless unless it is taken as one more opportunity for Parliament to reconsider voting on the lawful extension of Europol’s terms of reference, on the whole operation of this body, its effectiveness, the ways it can be controlled, the chance to appraise its successes and progress. We are dealing with nothing less than the future of police cooperation in Europe. – Madam President, this afternoon we are going to hold the annual debate on the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice. It is included in the agenda as Questions to the Council. In reality, the oral question is intended to introduce the debate laid down in the fourth paragraph of Article 2 of the Treaty. I would like to ask the Presidency to guarantee that the Council, which has not replied in writing to these questions, will firstly reply to the questions put by the Committee on Citizens’ Rights and Freedoms, Justice and Home Affairs, so that we can then proceed to the debate laid down in the Union Treaty in a more effective way. – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to remind you that this – as you are doubtless aware – is the European Parliament. I am telling you this because in this Parliament we are familiar with the Tampere agenda; we know what was decided there. I would like to remind you of this because it does not exactly coincide with what you have told us. The Tampere agenda comprised four sections with regard to the common management of immigration; one was family reunification. The Council has already eliminated one proposal. Another is on the parliamentary agenda but not on the Council’s. A policy for the management of migration flows, a policy for establishing legal immigration channels, clear, transparent, not drowning in a sea of bureaucracy from 15 different legal systems. A Commission proposal is being considered in Parliament, and it is not on the Council agenda. An integration policy that translates into a Commission proposal to create a statute for long-term immigrants. This is not on the Council agenda. We are in total chaos. The Social Affairs Council has approved the free movement of immigrant workers, which is prevented by immigration laws in 15 Member States. This is not on the Seville agenda. With regard to the external agenda: in Tampere, we spoke of co-development, the joint management of migration flows, and you told me that in Seville there is a tiny part referring to the threat to third countries. Co-management is not on the Seville agenda. The fight against illegal immigration, with which my group and I are entirely in agreement, appears in a somewhat esoteric form. You say that the Commission plan for the joint control of external borders is of particular importance. We do not understand that here, and nor does the public. Are you going to debate this? Why would this be the first thing on the Council agenda? Not only this, but the national governments, over the past two years and eight months, have implemented differing national policies in this area. You talk of reviewing the Tampere commitments. Save yourself the trouble – it will not take long, since no progress has been made with regard to immigration in two years and eight months. As the Council, you are responsible by omission for not having governed Community policy, and that, Mr President, is extremely serious. You are replacing consensus on solutions with making joint gestures that are incapable of resolving problems. You are replacing the adoption of legislation and policies to manage migration flows with writing notes and press releases that contribute to creating a problematic climate. Do not be surprised that the citizens view the European Union as a problem and not as the solution it should be. Mr President, I do not believe what has just happened to be reasonable; I do not believe it to be reasonable that speakers should have the opportunity to express, in front of all the Members of this House, an opinion contrary to that of Commissioner Patten on the referral to the Court of Justice, when we have spent months discussing it here. We did not have the opportunity that Commissioner Patten had yesterday, of speaking in front of a larger audience; we had our opportunity in the in-depth work carried out in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs and in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. There is a favourable opinion from the previous plenum about referral to the Court of Justice; there is a favourable opinion from the Committee on Legal Affairs; we should have referred the matter to the Court by now. Let us stop this, please. It is not acceptable. And let us move on at last to the vote, because this will ensure that there is no further opportunity to change what until today has been the majority position in this House. We accept it, but do it now, please. – Mr President, Mrs Klamt, ladies and gentlemen, what most worries our group is the lack of progress on the part of the Member States and the European Council in relation to asylum and immigration policies. While here we are discussing whether or not we want an open coordination method, the debate in the streets focuses on the more than fifteen deaths there have been off the Italian coasts, on the endless people, bodies, which appear on the coasts of the South of my country, on situations such as Sangatte, which the European public find truly exasperating, in two ways: on the one hand, because we find this situation distressing, and on the other, because the prevalent feeling seems to be that we are facing chaos, a situation of insecurity which is out of control. Of course, we want Community procedures for asylum. We believe that the current situation cannot continue and we are therefore prepared to support the European Commission’s proposal on the open coordination method as a step forward on the common policy. Naturally, the open coordination method cannot replace the necessary legislative approximation and harmonisation, but it can aid the establishment of these policies, in relation to which we must effectively increase the role of the European Parliament, as well as the collaboration of the UNHCR and the NGOs. Having said this, I believe we must remember more that asylum is a right that our States grant to persecuted people – which is due to our States’ and our citizens’ commitment to freedom. Therefore, the societies offering asylum should feel pride and satisfaction. We are therefore – and I am now referring to the second part of the report – in favour of this asylum system functioning properly. I believe that providing the best possible security means also providing the best possible measures for protecting these people. I believe that the application of the Geneva Convention and greater care with the methods we have established, not in relation to asylum, but in relation to other types of legislation, such as the common definition of terrorism or the step forward represented by the European arrest order, are very important and, applied efficiently, should be sufficient to guarantee security without prejudicing the right to asylum. I would also like to express our concern with regard to the countries with the death penalty and I would like to say that we are against collaboration with, and naturally expulsion to, those countries and also against the routine and non-individualised review of cases. Mr President, I regret that my time has run out because I would like to reply to Mr Turco, but I believe that he has not spoken about this report and I will do so through a point of order. – Mr President, I would firstly like to welcome this report and thank the rapporteur for her work and I would also like to welcome what Commissioner Vitorino said in relation to the procedure to be followed in order to be able to hold a genuine annual debate on human rights in the European Union. This has historically been a conflictive report, to the shame of this Parliament. In this house we are capable of deciding on a weekly basis what the human rights problems are in any corner of the world, but we are not capable of agreeing once a year on what standards should be complied with within the European Union in relation to fundamental rights. The charter should be a good instrument for measuring them. We are moving in the right direction, formulas are developing so that we can work jointly with the Commission. This work involves the political control, as the rapporteur said, of the degree of compliance, in each of the Member States, with the fundamental rights in the Union. While this is happening, while we are evolving, we should have the generosity to do it together and to do it well. I believe Mrs Swiebel’s report is a balanced report, because it is sincere and transparent, it mentions sources, without judging them, it does not oblige us to vote against or in favour of certain facts, but it draws attention to existing complaints which the executives must investigate and assess. I would point out to Mr Cornillet that this report has always been controversial. Just last year, Mr Cornillet, your report, which, according to you, moved in the right direction, was approved unanimously by the Socialists and with more than one hundred votes from your own group against and only 38 in favour. I believe that amongst all of us we can make an effort to find the main route to the positive development of the control of human rights within the European Union. –  Mr President, last week in Stockholm the Council asked for the Tampere agenda to be revitalised. I really do not understand at all. I do not understand why they have not been able to revitalise and fulfil it over all these months. What I see is that with initiatives like this one they will not only revitalise it, they will bombard it. At this time of night, and coming from a Spanish and Portuguese evening that Ms Cerdeira and I attended, I am tempted to surrender to Mr Cappato’s rhetorical charms and agree with him completely, because in fact the only thing I can understand is that the ministers meet on one side and on the other there is some machinery which points towards other objectives. I do not understand why the Council does not go after some coherent political proposals, which follow one behind the other in pursuit of the clear objectives of creating a common, coherent and global immigration policy and asylum policy in the European Union, instead of advancing piecemeal on absolutely specific and partial topics which throw this policy off balance and make it increasingly difficult to make progress on the Tampere agenda. Seeing that in the Council the ministers have also decided – paradoxically in my view – to support this French proposal, and it should be either discussed immediately or moved on, my Group will in any case try to send them the clear message that we in the European Union must not confuse compassion, the work of some people in the front line helping immigrants, with the traffic in people. We shall try to do so by supporting the amendments that Mr Ceyhun has drawn up so well and also the amendments that Ms Cerdeira has added to the report. If we succeed, we shall vote in favour of this report and we shall try to send this message to the Council. If not, we shall see tomorrow what we can do with it: we shall probably have some difficulties. – Mr President, I would firstly like to clarify that, during the debate on the previous report, I wished to read a phrase in Spanish, which is the correct linguistic version. I had the right to do so, but I am going to do so tomorrow during the vote, although that is less convenient, since it is different from the phrase read by Mr Nassauer. With regard to the report we are discussing now by Mr Hernández Mollar, I would like to say that this is not a happy occasion. We cannot take pleasure in the restriction of the right to free movement, which – as we pointed out this morning – is an essential factor in the Europeans’ world view. The Group of the Party of European Socialists, however, despite the irresponsible inclinations in favour of illegal immigration I am accused of by certain Members from the PPE-DE Group, will vote in favour of the inclusion of Ecuador in the list of countries whose nationals require a Schengen visa. It will do so having analysed the information which has been provided by the countries requesting it and because it believes that it will provide better guarantees of the rights of those people who today are being denied entry in the terminals of the European Union’s airports, which often also affects people who wish to enter for the purposes of tourism. In any event, I would like to call on the European Commission to see this as a serious alarm call with regard to a country which is reaching very serious levels of poverty and, in accordance with its own statements on the Union’s immigration policy, to treat this country as a priority objective, in terms of development cooperation and co-development measures. I believe we could thereby compensate for the sad message which unfortunately we have to send today from the Union to the citizens of that country. I thank the rapporteur for his work and for accepting this amendment, because I am convinced that we share this concern. – Mr President, firstly, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Frahm, because I believe she has produced a really good piece of work. Furthermore, her report expresses this Parliament’s pleasure. For us, the establishment of this Fund is good news. Since 1997, we have been trying to carry out coherent work in this respect, and we have had some successes. However, in order to be fully successful, we need a legal basis to ensure the continuity of the work on improving the reception, the integration, or, where they wish it, the satisfactory return of the asylum seekers and refugees present in the European Union. Those are three different areas of work. We have to safeguard all three, and I agree that we must maintain a reserve fund in order to deal with the arrival of displaced persons without endangering the development of better infrastructures and practices within the Union. With regard to the distribution of resources, we have to take account of the need to show solidarity with countries which are highly committed to the question of refugees, but we also have to bear in mind – as the report says – the need for countries which have less of a tradition of accepting refugees – such as my own – to improve their infrastructures and services so that they may reach the same level as the other countries and take on – because I believe this should be the objective – higher levels of responsibility together with the other countries of the European Union. The Member States have a major role to play in this respect and must make considerable efforts. However, I would like to point out that we should also make use of our experience of managing other funds, especially the Structural Funds, in order to involve local and regional administrations and the organisations representing civil society in this management, in addition to the Member States. This would create added value, because contact with the NGOs and the local administrations could contribute to the fight against racism, to involving society and informing the citizens of the reception countries of the importance of asylum and refugees. Furthermore, using the practices already developed for the management of those funds could promote interaction between them. We must develop policies which are coherent with both funds. Lastly, I would like to add my voice to those which have called for a greater financial contribution to the European Refugee Fund. – Mr President, I would first of all like to join in warmly congratulating the Greek Presidency. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Thessaloniki offers you the opportunity to strengthen the Union's immigration policies and to improve the measures for offering security to European citizens. These are two essential, but different, objectives. You must confront the new threats resulting from organised crime, whose tentacles stretch throughout and beyond the European Union, and you have instruments for doing so, such as the European arrest warrant and Europol. Strengthen them and use them to combat large-scale international crime and also small-scale crime, the crime which fills our streets with beggars, children and prostitutes, victims of human trafficking, but please do so using the instruments necessary for each issue. A member of Al Qaeda is not an illegal immigrant who indulges in terrorism, but an international criminal. And you must manage immigration, which is a different thing, a complex social phenomenon which should be dealt with from different angles. Do that, please. Return to the global and integrated vision laid down at Tampere. Return to the map drawn up by the Commission, adopt the legislative framework envisaged, apply the measures proposed by the Commission with regard to third countries, integration, employment, with regard to all the issues relating to this field. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the majority of illegal immigrants enter the Union legally. The majority of illegal immigrants are domestic employees working in our homes. A danger to the European Union? To whom? And above all, please, please call things by their real name. If the leaders of the European Union are going to persist in mixing international organised crime with immigration we are going to have a problem. If we tell the citizens that immigration, even if the adjective illegal is added, is one of the new dangers to be confronted by the Union, we should not be surprised if it leads to excessive reactions, we should not be surprised if it creates a problem with the citizens of the Union and their perception of immigration. – Mr President, I would firstly like to welcome the information from the President-in-Office of the Council on the progress made in relation to measures for combating terrorism and the arrest warrant. Mr President, justice is a key word on the European and international stages following 11 September. The creation of a European area of justice is the best contribution the Union could offer at this time. We are not talking about a European criminal code; that is not what we want. Neither are we talking about establishing emergency laws. We are talking about something more fundamental: mutual trust between Member States and between their legitimate judicial systems. Mr Cappato, I sincerely believe that the proposals which the Commissioner, Mr Vitorino, produced calmly and at the request of this House, and which are of the high quality we normally expect from the Commissioner, deserve our support and must be approved by the Justice and Home Affairs Council. In no way will they violate the freedom and rights of the citizens. On the contrary, they protect them, making justice more efficient and putting judicial cooperation in the hands of judges, and not of governments, within the European Union. I am grateful for the information on the elimination of double incrimination, because – as the Chairman of my group, Mr Barón, said – this House feels that the effort we make to keep up with circumstances is not always reflected in the Council. We would also be grateful for more precise information on the debates in the Justice and Home Affairs Council and for broader involvement by Parliament. In this respect, given the speeding up of certain procedures, I wonder, Mr President, if this is not the moment to move cooperation in the criminal field to the first pillar. I am slightly more sceptical about what has been said about progress on immigration and asylum in the Union. I believe that not even the greatest will in the world would allow a positive assessment of this issue at Laeken. There is just one proposal approved by the Council which may be of use today. Why do we not implement the measures laid down in that one measure adopted in the Directive on the temporary protection of displaced persons? It seems to me that the situation of the borders of Afghanistan and support for the refugees and the neighbouring countries, issues which the European Union has to deal with, provide us with a perfect opportunity to test this directive, to test the solidarity between the Member States in the European Refugee Fund and to implement what is laid down in it. – Mr President, this is indeed a significant agreement. It is the first time the European Union has negotiated an agreement of this nature in its own right. A precedent is being set. In my view therefore the concerns raised by the Chairman of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs concerning the conduct of negotiations and approval of the agreement are entirely justified, and I support his views. I believe Mr Hernández Mollar has done good work. I would also like to congratulate him on his presentation, on what he was explaining to us. Regarding content, I think it would be very positive to come to an agreement with the United States. It is however impossible to disregard the differences between our two systems. In particular, it is impossible to disregard the death penalty. The reservation on extradition is therefore quite clear. I believe the situation concerning legal cooperation is less clear, and consequently find Article 9 inadequate. I do not think it is reasonable either that a request submitted by a Member State should not take precedence over one submitted by a third country, as stated in Article 10. I also have problems regarding the United States position on the International Criminal Court. The same is true of other European states. I believe the text of the agreement should make it clear that a request submitted by the International Criminal Court takes precedence over one submitted by a third country. It would be ridiculous for this not to be the case when the European arrest warrant takes precedence even over a Member State’s request. Finally, I should like to revisit the issue of the political wisdom of signing the agreement without dealing with the situation in Guantánamo. I do not believe it would be wise to do so. Accordingly, I shall support the view that signature should be conditional on finding a solution to a problem affecting many European citizens. We are actually unaware of how many of our citizens are being held in Guantánamo together with citizens of other countries around the world. I find the situation quite unacceptable. I very much hope that the Member States and Community institutions will really pull out all the stops.  really is a basic right. It is enshrined in all the conventions. Politically, we simply cannot enter into a special agreement with a third country that continues to hold people in these conditions. – Mr President, the conclusions of the Tampere Summit seem to me to be a basically positive sign for the citizens of the European Union because they address issues that affect all of us, but also, above all, because they open the door to the development of certain policies which the citizens themselves demand. I would like to see Tampere as a starting point, as a door which is opening and which will show us the path which we must travel along during the coming months, since there are some things which I still wonder about and I hope that they will be resolved during this process. With regard to fighting crime and the creation of an area of justice, I believe that we have moved forward and that this is positive. But I would like to concentrate principally on the question of immigration. I believe that it has also been positive to confront the need for a common asylum policy, but we need the funding to sustain it. We also need to confront the reality of immigration. I hope that, in the coming days, we will receive more information about what the Council intends and how the measures adopted at Tampere will be implemented. The action plans approved seem to me to be very interesting. This “interpillar” policy opens up possibilities which may lead us to a good result, but it also raises many questions as to by who and how these action plans will be developed and whether the Council will ever give us any information concerning the results of the one which has been implemented, that is to say the action plan concerning Iraq. The fight against illegal immigration also interests me. But I believe that, in order to combat illegal immigration, we must ensure that it is more worthwhile to approach a European Union consulate than a band of traffickers. If we want to put an end to the ignominy of deaths on our borders, as Mr Hernández Mollar said, we must offer a genuine common immigration policy, which we did not see at Tampere, offer new initiatives, and allow those people who live in the Union to do so with equal rights. – Mr President, I would also like to begin my intervention by saying that my sentiments about the Dover catastrophe are deeply felt. Unfortunately they are nothing new. I live in an area of Europe where, every day, every week, the dead bodies of emigrants from the north and south of Africa appear. These victims do not appear in the news because, fortunately, they are yet to die on a massive scale, but rather they die in a trickle. Having said this, I am sure, as Commissioner Vitorino has said, that the European Union needs a common policy in order to manage the legal entry of immigrants – bearing in mind our economic, social and demographic situation – in a reasonable way, preventing arbitrary treatment and, above all, turning to legal immigration avenues instead of traffickers in human beings. I believe that we have the responsibility to establish a legal framework which will allow this to be done. We also have the responsibility – and I would like to highlight this – to apply laws which already exist in the whole of the European Union and which regulate our labour market. It is outrageous that some people import and use labour and then go unpunished. To this end, there is no need to create new immigration laws, but we simply have to use the ones we already have to regulate the labour market and punish employers of illegal workers. A year ago in October, the Tampere agreements were adopted. I hope that the Commission will do everything that the Commissioner has said and that the Council is up to the job. In that case they will have the support of this Parliament. –  Mr President, we are all agreed that never has so much been achieved to promote the future of Europe with so little money as through the Erasmus programme. Offering young people from other states the opportunity to spend some of their formative years in Europe is something we should all be seeking to do, because we all stand to benefit from it. I do however believe that establishing clear, specific and common standards is crucial to the success of these programmes. This will avoid subjecting students to difficult procedures that could also be humiliating. The criteria for choosing a place to study or to undertake voluntary work should always be its appropriateness or excellence. The existence of entry or residence facilities should not influence the choice. Clear rules and flexibility are certainly needed to allow a student to earn money legally in reasonable conditions for his or her stay. Common principles are called for, such as the Commission’s proposal. I believe this proposal is very helpful. We recognise that reasonable restrictions are required. In particular, this is to ensure that the students return to their countries and put what they have learnt to good use. They can also spread the new skills and approaches developed during such an experience. That is probably even more important. It cannot and must not be achieved solely through strict regulations. I venture to suggest to the Commission that this proposal should be included in future generous and ambitious actions involving the countries of origin of such students. There needs to be scope for mobility, for example, to maximise the benefits the Union can gain from hosting these individuals. I trust no further difficulties or reasons will emerge that will prevent the Council from adopting the proposal on this occasion. I have in mind a threat to the security of Europe, for instance. The proposal needs to be fast-tracked through the Council. Mrs Roure deserves to be congratulated on her work. I commend this helpful report to the House and call for it to be endorsed by a substantial majority of Members. Hopefully this will be achieved for once, and a precedent set. – Mr President, on behalf of my Group, I should also like to express our disappointment at our failure to successfully conclude this matter, in spite of all of the efforts we all made so that the European Union could adopt a strong position, with the backing of Parliament, on something as important as the World Conference against Racism. We did all we could to achieve this as, in my view, did Mrs Ludford, the rapporteur. In addition to this, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I should like to say that I found the references one member of Parliament made to our support of radicalism and the extreme left, wholly unacceptable, as indeed was the reference made to the idea that the terrorist group ETA, which a few hours ago murdered someone in my home town, is an extreme left-wing group. These people have an exclusive and partisan vision of nationalism and have nothing to do with any of us, or any European socialists, or with any ideology that is not based on exclusion and racism. – Mr President, I requested the floor before just to say that Mrs Ludford has done a very good job as rapporteur for this report, which has been discussed in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs in more than one meeting. I would ask, nevertheless, that we please stick to what has already been discussed and to the list of votes. –  Mr President, we are about to conduct a strange vote, as we did last month, on this strange new method of a legislative initiative by Member States. The amended initiative has been rejected. We are now called upon to vote, firstly on an amendment tabled by our group requesting that the Council be informed of the rejection of this initiative and that the Commission be asked to prepare a new proposal within the framework of its right to take the initiative. We shall then have to vote on the draft legislative resolution and a favourable vote is needed to inform the Council that we have rejected its initiative. It is complicated, but it is the same as the situation which arose at the previous plenary sitting and was explained by Mr Watson. That is to say, the next amendment does not fall. Rather, we still have to vote in favour of rejection for the sake of consistency. – Mr President, I would like firstly to express, on behalf of my group, our unease at this Council proposal at a time when, within the Union, we are working – and this is shown in the initiatives which the Commission has taken and is taking – on the communitisation of what we have called the ‘Third Pillar’ and on the development of an immigration and reception policy for citizens from third countries. We are uneasy because we do not understand very well where this High Level Working Group comes from or why it is being maintained, why the Council is making a proposal in this way and why that proposal was taken up at Tampere; what the Commission is going to do in these action plans and what coherence there is between this proposal and the work carried out by the Council’s High Level Working Group and the rest of the Commission proposals on policies to be implemented in the Union. I believe this is important and I would like an answer from the Council. Secondly, I would like to say that we have mixed feelings with regard to these action plans. On the one hand, what they say seems reasonable; it seems reasonable to establish bilateral policies between the European Union and some of the countries in which the problem of the exodus of migrants and refugees is greatest; this seems useful. This is the case with Morocco, for example, with whom we must establish a serious and significant bilateral relationship in order to ensure that the immigration originating from that country remains within the law. This may also be the case with the Balkan countries, where it is clear who our partners are. On the other hand, however, there are countries on this list whose governments do not even deserve to be described as such, and countries with which I do not think we should speak, such as Afghanistan. I would like to ask the Council if it intends to go to Afghanistan and say, ‘Good afternoon. We have come to tell you to respect human rights because you are sending us too many refugees.’ This would be absolutely incredible or, at least, very naive. Furthermore, it seems to me that broaching this issue with these countries is difficult and dangerous. I believe that there are some people that we should not even speak to on principle. Therefore, since we cannot adopt a cross-pillar approach – that is to say, between the Third and the First Pillar – taking the shortest route, I believe that the Council should once again consult this Parliament on each and every action plan which is to be set up, in accordance with the provisions of the First Pillar. I have pointed out two problems: who is going to take charge of these action plans and with whom? There is a third problem: how are we going to pay for them? There is no budgetary contribution set aside for them and the measures which provide for some degree of funding will apparently take money, for example, from cooperation programmes such as MEDA. It is difficult to see how the idea of codevelopment and the idea of working with these countries in order to tackle immigration at source can be compatible with the idea of taking away funds earmarked for cooperation in development, in order to guard external borders. I believe this warrants some reflection. Finally, the development of action plans is on the ‘scoreboard’. This is a good thing, but I would like to remind you that there is an action plan that has been implemented, that of Iraq, on which nobody has ever provided us with any information. –  Mr President, the procedure followed in drawing up this resolution was rather strange and has presented difficulties for all of us. Clearly, the fight against terrorism currently has aspects of both internal and foreign policy, and I would not like to see the importance of the work carried out by my own committee diminished. I would therefore ask you to allow Mr Hernández Mollar to speak before I do. If this is impossible under the Rules of Procedure, I am prepared to exchange my scheduled slot with his, which I would not have thought would cause any major problems for the staff. – Mr President, I would firstly like to say that Catalonia, where I come from, together with Aragon, Roussillon and the neighbouring areas, are still suffering from the lack of will or ill-will demonstrated by the Spanish and French Governments and other authorities responsible for developing infrastructures which would allow the Pyrenean border to be eliminated. It is an example – a further example – of stupidity and short-sightedness, since an even more dynamic and powerful European region in that area would benefit everybody. I hope that President Prodi's announcement of an increase of 30% in the funding of cross-border sections of the European networks will help governments to act in accordance with the conclusions of the Council which they themselves sign. The development of a free Europe without borders is one side of the coin; on the other side are the management of external borders and movement of people. In this regard also there is identical stinginess and lack of ambition. I am pleased that the Council is reiterating the global view of the phenomenon of migration adopted at the Thessaloniki European Council; that is important, but admission, residence, integration, border control and the creation of positive dynamics with regard to immigration for receiving countries and countries of origin were dealt with at the Tampere European Council. A legislative programme and coherent and clear political action which make it more attractive to go to a consulate than to put out to sea have been on the table for years, just as we have a European programme for offering justice and security to European citizens on the basis of cooperation between Member States, the cornerstone of which is the European arrest warrant. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, what do you talk about in the Councils? How can you make generalised statements about fighting crime when what we are waiting for is for you to tell us how and when you are going to adopt the proposals we have on the table, and whether they are going to take effect by the expected date in all the Member States? –  Mr President, I too would like first to thank the Council for distributing this document and for facilitating this debate. Thank you very much for being here today. I have strongly defended the European search and arrest warrant in this House. In doing so I have argued strongly that international cooperation, not the restriction of rights and freedoms is what will make us better able to deal with new security problems. I therefore think that in principle increased cooperation with the United States is a positive development. Nevertheless, Mr President, I feel compelled to raise a number of questions here and now. My questions concern the contents of this agreement with a country whose judicial system remains significantly different from ours. My first question relates to the fact that there is a guarantee that a person who is extradited cannot be condemned to death. I understand this; it has been made very clear. I would however like to know how we can guarantee that judicial cooperation and the handing over of evidence does not amount to collaborating to ensure someone is executed. I would welcome further clarification on this matter. I will now outline my second question. The European search and arrest warrant will not come into force for a few months. It provides for the International Criminal Court to prevail. When, in the future, Member States are bound by this arrangement, how will it be possible to guarantee that a summons issued by the International Criminal Court takes precedence over a request for extradition issued by the United States? There are indeed measures that protect against the  and extraordinary laws. Clearly, we are not going to hand a person over to the United States if he or she could be tried under laws of that kind. This leads me however to pose another question, relating to politics rather than to the contents of the proposal. There is evidence that at least twelve European citizens are being ‘detained’, if I may put it like that, in Guantanamo Bay. Has the Council taken any action to guarantee the right of European citizens to proper consular protection abroad, as provided for further to the Maastricht Treaty? Has the Council instructed the Commission to take such action? Or are we to admit that there are different classes of citizens? Has anything been done to ensure the United States allows the detainees to appear before a judge? Lastly, Mr President, is it politically acceptable to sign an agreement strengthening judicial cooperation with a state that is keeping nationals of our countries in such conditions? I firmly believe it is not. How will we be able to call for justice from third countries in future when we find ourselves in a similar situation? Mr President, it appears that being prudent in this House is penalised. I wanted to speak after the vote on the Boogerd-Quaak report, and not before, to avoid joining the general free-for-all, for one reason: to place myself at the disposal of the Presidency. I was on the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs and saw the people looking for the documents when they disappeared. Mr Hernández Mollar is right in saying that he knew nothing and that no group got up. On this committee all the groups and the chairman worked very reasonably together until, after our work, this row blew up. Mr Barón is completely right, and he is not lying when he says that this is what happened. I am at your disposal to clarify any point concerning this issue and, of course, it is untrue to say that Mr Barón lied. I myself told him about the matter. .This explanation of vote relates to Article 15, referring to the question of decriminalising active euthanasia. Given that the annual report on fundamental rights in the EU plays a part in monitoring adherence to the Charter, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote against this article. It follows that there is no objective reason why the question of decriminalising active euthanasia should appear in this report. Mr President, I believe that this debate must be seen in relation to the one we are going to hold this afternoon on relations with the new neighbouring countries. I believe we are at a key moment to relaunch those aspects which have made least progress in relation to the Barcelona agenda. And of these I am concerned in particular with the cultural and human fields. I believe we must make a great effort here. There is a field in which we could make this effort, if we are able to work on it in all its complexity: movement of people and immigration. We should try to make immigration a factor which strengthens relations and the stability between countries of origin and destination. We should create positive dynamics which could have an effect in economic terms, introducing concepts such as ‘mobility’, which is more suited to our times than the rigid and bureaucratic rules with which we intend to manage immigration. We should reintroduce onto our agenda the concept of ‘co-development’. We will be able to do a lot of work in this field, creating European Erasmuses or supporting local cooperation in many fields. On the basis of this global perspective, we could effectively combat illegal immigration and its most horrendous aspect, which has brought us horrifying images, such as the arrival of bodies, one after the other, on our coasts. We could combat illegal immigration organised by human traffickers. A new agenda, based on the proposals of the Commission and the Greek and Italian Presidencies before Thessaloniki, in relation to immigration and the countries in which it originates, could strengthen the human and cultural pillar of the Conference. Furthermore, so that the people who live amongst us can be a factor in stability and the promotion of our values, we must also work on our integration policy. – Mr President, 1999 was the year of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, of the communitisation of the Schengen Agreement and of the Extraordinary Tampere Council. These have been the most important moments in the Council’s expression of its political will to establish an area of freedom, security and justice in the European Union. The Council has decided to draw up a charter of citizens’ rights – and we rejoice in this; it has decided to implement Article 13 of the Treaty, combating all forms of discrimination and xenophobia, and it has decided to approximate the laws on conditions for admission and residence, as well as guaranteeing residents treatment which is fair and on an equal footing with the citizens of the Union. It has also reached a political agreement – and we congratulate them on this – on the initial proposals for civil cooperation. This has been the year in which policies on justice and home affairs have been provided with a Community framework. They have been put into the hands of a single Commissioner, Mr Antonio Vitorino, and we congratulate them on this as well. Furthermore, they have taken on the task of creating a “scoreboard” to verify the progress made in this area at Community level, but also – and this seems to me to be important – at the level of the Member States. We are pleased about this and we congratulate the Council on these decisions, despite the fact that, for this House, the Treaty of Amsterdam included one disappointment: that of delaying, for five years, our role, our ability to participate actively, to democratically control this area of freedom, security and justice, as well as the role taken in it by the Court of Justice. However, if, on verifying the progress made during 1999, which is within the competence of this Parliament in accordance with the Treaty, we leave behind the stage of great declarations and look at the decisions actually taken and carried out, the scene looks considerably darker, Mr President. It is as if the Council had more than one face and two hands and what one signs up to, the other begrudges. Despite all the commitments made at the highest level, the Council did not manage to take the decisions which it had envisaged. Programmes multiply and overlap and there is no way of ascertaining levels of implementation and effectiveness or, at least, this Parliament is unable to do so. We have presented the Council with a series of questions and I know that it is the will of the Portuguese Presidency to answer each and every one of them. We hope that this presidency will mark the beginning of a change of attitude on the part of the Council towards this Parliament. I said that there was no consistency between the decisions taken by the Council and the policies actually carried out. There are doubts in my Group and doubts also persist in this House, for example, about something which should be good news: the incorporation of the Schengen Agreement into the Community framework. Schengen has been incorporated, as we said earlier, into the acquis, but it has been done with very little transparency. Not a single piece of information, nor a single consultation, has been addressed to Parliament during this process; neither on the association of the United Kingdom, nor on the incorporation of Greece, nor on the negotiations with Norway and Iceland. The same is true with regard to immigration policy. We have amused ourselves with a pile of reports, but we have no idea what has happened to these initiatives; they have disappeared. We hope that 2000 will be the year for action, in the same way that 1999 was the year for expectations. We hope that the Council will also make an effort to subject itself to the control of this Parliament. The Council has decided that justice and home affairs policy must form part of the structure of the Union. The Council can act in accordance with Parliament’s decisions, or it can continue to miserably begrudge its association with the other institutions in this vitally important project. If it chooses the second approach, it must be aware that this presents risks and that it will weaken the basis on which the area of freedom, security and justice is built. Alternatively, it could accept the offer of an agreement amongst the institutions, in order to move forward in another way. Fulfil your obligations to Parliament in a generous spirit, thus preparing for the future. Provide the Commission with the necessary resources and recognition essential for it to carry out its work and for it to verify the real progress made at Community level and at the level of the Member States, and we will be – and the Council will be – able to deal with the decisions made at Tampere and move towards a Union which is freer, more just and more secure. – Mr President, I am going to refer to the Thessaloniki agenda in relation to immigration and asylum. Compared to the Seville conclusions, I find it genuinely interesting, although, having heard Mr Borghezio, I am wondering whether my analysis may be mistaken. Seriously, I believe that the Council has returned to a more global and balanced vision of immigration, reducing the decibels of its declarations, but in a more measured way increasing the intensity of the measures adopted. I take a positive view of the option of guaranteeing border control by means of a Community operative structure for cooperation. Border control is necessary, but it is only one part of immigration policy, Mr President, and it has its limits: in terms of security, because criminals do not normally use their documents or cross borders by the usual routes, and in terms of the management of migratory flows, because the majority of immigrants currently residing in Europe, without documentation, crossed the borders originally in a legal fashion, as students, with an initial work permit or as tourists, but the border was crossed legally in any case. In fact, the situation at maritime borders is dramatic and people have a very negative perception of it, since they feel subjected to a dual tension: fear of a phenomenon which appears to be out of control, and a tremendous compassion which we all feel when we see, sometimes, bodies reaching our coasts. In terms of numbers, however, this is very limited compared to the overall phenomenon of immigration. The Tampere element is needed, and its application does not require money, but does require political courage. It is also necessary to create a common legislative framework for legal entry and for the harmonisation of asylum. Similarly, readmission agreements are just one part of the relationship with third countries. We should use a little imagination so that, in a world such as ours, in which everything has the potential to move within a global framework, the movement of people can become a virtuous circle, generating a little wealth for third countries, for our neighbours and for us. We will need this imagination. Furthermore, Mr President, please allow me to end by congratulating you on having accepted, for the first time, the need for a European integration policy and on having correctly identified its objectives and the need to implement them with local and regional authorities and social actors. We have a lot at stake in this field. The co-existence of our Member States is at stake. I only hope – and I congratulate you on your Presidency – that your successors will deal with this issue with the same care as you. – Mr President, I simply wish to say that at 7.30 p.m. an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs will begin, for an urgent consultation that the Council has requested. I have asked for the floor in relation to the two subsequent reports and I believe that the same is true for several members of that committee who are here at the moment. I have taken the floor so that our reason for leaving the Chamber may be recorded in the Minutes and to say that, as coordinator of the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the committee, I have no choice but to leave, and I hope this demonstrates that we should avoid this type of situation. – Mr President, I would like to ask you to take note of the fact that in this building there are meeting rooms with no screen. And while there are plenary sittings and meetings under way at the same time, it would be a good thing if all the rooms had screens, if that is not too much trouble. Mr President, our Group has significant doubts, and reasonable doubts, in relation to the EURODAC report presented. We have already rejected a report which intended, in unclear terms, and for who knows what reason, to take the fingerprints of the illegal immigrants who arrive in the European Union. We have a new proposal, this time from the Commission, which makes important advances. This new proposal says that the fingerprints of illegal immigrants – because we are talking about the extension of the existing EURODAC programme to illegal immigrants – will only be taken in application of the Dublin Asylum Convention, that is to say, only in order to find out whether these immigrants have asked for asylum in another Member State of the European Union. We are not opposed to this idea, on the contrary, we are not against clarifying whether there is a Member State responsible for the handling of the case if it is shown that a person has already applied for asylum. But we have many doubts about this massive taking of fingerprints – because we believe it will be massive – of people who have crossed borders illegally or who are in an illegal situation in a Member State. Therefore, we believe that a little more time is needed to carry out the proposed extension of the EURODAC system. What we are clear about is that it is not acceptable to apply it to minors. In this respect we will stand firm. We will demand that this system be applied only to adults, because minors require other legal provisions if they are not accompanied. And if they are with their family, that family will enter the system. – Mr President, firstly, on a point of order, I believe that immigration policy has many elements and I do not wish to discuss issues such as allocations in this report. I believe that we are going to do so by means of the open coordination method in a future report. Secondly, as a personal statement, I would like say to Mr Nassauer and Mr Coelho that no part of my report promotes illegal immigration or allows a work permit in the European Union to be granted to people who enter illegally. I am talking about people whose illegal status has come about for bureaucratic reasons and who have not been expelled and who once again fulfil the admission criteria. I believe that this is far from promoting illegal immigration. My report in no way provides for the possibility of entering illegally and seeking work. Finally, Mr Nassauer, I regret that it pleases you that what may be a majority opinion in this House should be thrown out. I hope that the participants in the Convention take a different view and that in the future the majority opinions of this House are taken into account. – Mr President, I would simply like to ask you to take note of the fact that in item 19, in the penultimate sub-paragraph, there is a correction to made in the Spanish version. This point says ‘recommends that the Member States should introduce a sunset provision in their specific anti-terrorism legislation’. I have checked the text by Mrs Swiebel and, indeed, ‘specific’ should be replaced by ‘exceptional’. Specific legislation can be common legislation which under no circumstances must be subject to sunset clauses or anything similar. It should not say ‘specific’ but ‘exceptional’. – Madam President, in view of the information the Commissioner has been kind enough to give us – in which he confirms that the Council is actually today, even before the vote on our report, discussing and probably adopting a different version from the one it communicated to us for consultation – I would like to ask him to deal with this situation. This is not an isolated case: in relation to all the issues we are discussing, which are fundamental and very sensitive, relating to justice and internal affairs, in accordance with the procedures adopted in Amsterdam - in other words, we are still within the five-year-period during which Parliament only plays a consultative role – in addition to having little capacity for intervention, the little power we do have is constantly being undermined by attitudes of dubious interinstitutional loyalty on the part of the Council. I would request, Madam President, that the Presidency of this House deal with this situation before the Council and inform it of our displeasure. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Barón, said, the European Union is not reinvented during each Presidency. You said, Mr Aznar, that Spain has proposed a European immigration and asylum policy. I think I recall that there already was one. Nearly three years ago, in Tampere, the European Council adopted a programme to harmonise asylum policies and to provide the European Union with a common framework for immigration policies. The programme had its deadlines, which, it is true, will expire in two years’ time. The Commission, during that time, presented all the proposals for a coherent immigration policy: family reunification, integration, management of flows of legal entry in order to cover existing employment in the European Union (perhaps we should consider that we need more employment inspection and less border controls in the European Union, which would also be a way forward), relations with third countries in terms of joint management of influxes and joint development, and combating illegal immigration. None of these proposals were adopted. In Seville, in any case, you had to ratify the Tampere agenda; you had to ratify its objectives after three years. This gives me two feelings: one of hope, because that is the last thing you lose, but also one of concern as to how you did it. You turned the Tampere agenda around and that concerns me for many reasons, including reasons of efficiency. The fight against illegal immigration should be defending a legal European immigration policy. If that is not the case, it is just a fight against the desperate; it is a horrible war against illegal immigrants, which we cannot win. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today this European immigration policy that we need for the twenty-first century does not exist, but there are proposals for it. I hope that there will be real steps forward in the future. –  Mr President, to analyse this year zero of the Tampere era we have, for the first time, a tool that will be extraordinarily useful, both now and in the future: the scoreboard set up by the Commission which, in future years, should include the progress made in the Council and the progress made in each of the Member States. A comparison between the initial forecasts and the latest revision of the scoreboard shows, for instance, how we have progressed – I would say remarkably – in matters of judicial cooperation. We have hopes for the future of Eurojust and this Parliament welcomes the decisions taken by the Council and the Member States’ initiatives which, in the field of judicial cooperation, have added to the Commission proposals, thus creating a circle that should be maintained in future. My Group also values the highly significant Commission communication on the mutual recognition of sentences in criminal matters. We hope it will be a solid base from which to combat crime, especially those more callous and intolerable versions such as terrorism. Ministers, we are well aware of what the European Commission has presented this last year in connection with the Tampere Agenda: it is on the scoreboard. What we do not know is what the Council is thinking of doing with them in the immediate future. In exchange, we have seen concrete and fragmentary proposals – I do not want to return to the debate we had in the previous sitting – from each Member State, which in this case we cannot accept at all, either now or in the future. Today we have also talked about the shock caused by the arrival of the “East Sea” in Europe. It shocked everyone, and I think it would have done so even more if the citizens knew that even before Tampere we had set up something which (talking of cooperation with the countries of origin) is called an action plan for northern Iraq, i.e. the Kurds. But the citizens do not know. Just as those of my country do not know that we have set up an action plan for Morocco, and while they keep finding the bodies of our young neighbours on their beaches they wonder what the European Union is doing. In fact, the impression given by the press is that not even our government knows. Laeken is going to be a new opportunity for the common immigration and asylum policy. Please do not just reaffirm the Tampere decisions again. Tell us how you intend to move forward. Please do not repeat that things are on the right road. Really convince yourselves that your decisions are good ones, and uphold them clearly and with determination and courage. Parliament – and I am sure in this respect the citizens too – will follow. . – Madam President, we have said a thousand times in this House that a global European immigration policy must be based, firstly, on the establishment of legal immigration rules and then on strong instruments to ensure that these rules are complied with. We are today discussing a proposed directive which would constitute the cornerstone of this policy, a directive on which the Council, of course, has not made much progress. Parliament should also have given its opinion some time ago, but we always lag behind on these issues. I have chosen this moment to present my report because, for the first time in a long time, the Greek Presidency has included the issue of legal immigration on the political agenda, something which I am glad about. The Commission’s proposed directive is intended to harmonise the conditions for entry and residence for nationals of third countries who intend to enter a Member State for employment reasons. It allows the entry of workers from a third country in the event that the post cannot be filled by a national worker or a worker from another Member State of the Union or by a resident of a third country with the right to access the labour market. The proposal lays down a contract at origin for the immigrant worker, except for those who reside legally within the European Union for other reasons. The residence permit and the work permit would be combined as one single document. The adoption of this directive would involved the recognition of the need for legal channels for immigration and would create a more transparent framework with simpler procedures, which would provide economic actors with more facilities and also reinforce the rights of immigrants. For my part, I welcome the Commission’s proposal. I only regret that the Commission, no doubt as a result of realism, has not been able to reflect in this proposed directive some of the ideas it put forward in previous communications, because I sincerely believe that we cannot continue to copy models of immigration control employed during the last century, when the industrial society was at its height, but that we must be able to imagine new procedures suited to our world, to a society and a labour market which operate according to principles which are very different to those of the decades following the war. Some of the measures studied by the Commission, such as mobility, moved in the right direction and reality will oblige us to return to them. Madam President, this is just an opinion report. I would have preferred to have produced a resolution rather than a package of amendments – which are unlikely to be read or taken into account by those people with real decision-making powers. But for procedural reasons we have had to present a package of amendments and these must reflect two fundamental issues. Firstly, a strong will and a strong signal in favour of a European immigration policy. We need clear rules which can be complied with. We have therefore rejected the amendments, above all those presented by the PPE-DE Group, which intended to convert the directive into a kind of recommendation which the States could comply with or not. Neither have we accepted the amendments which introduced requirements other than employment and which were difficult to verify. If we accept that the possibility of performing a job of work is what legitimises entry and residence in the Union, we must then ensure that this system works. By requiring that the immigrant has a contract or a firm offer while still in the country of origin, we are thereby regulating access in accordance with the labour market. Even in a situation of unemployment, this would simply become paralysed. Secondly, we must establish rules which can be complied with, thereby incentivising the arrival of immigrants through regular channels and preventing illegal contracts; preventing immigrant workers from ending up in an illegal situation, for bureaucratic reasons, once in the Union; and discourage, as far as possible, the entry of immigrants without permits. We proposed three things in this regard: that people legally residing in the Union, or who are here legally for any reason or have entered with a residency permit and have lost it, can recover their legal situation and not remain permanently in an irregular situation and that the States can, if they wish, establish a six-month visa for seeking work. Other elements we have introduced are the strengthening of equal conditions amongst workers, with a view to preventing all types of discrimination and the creation of a second-class labour market to which both immigrants and native workers would fall victim. We also intend for workers to be given equal rights and obligations, for workers to be allowed to move freely within the Member State – for obvious reasons I do not believe we have to go further – and, in general, to reduce the time periods and bureaucratic obstacles to establishing this immigration policy. Like our citizens and their representatives, like the employers and the unions, I hope that we can create clear rules based on the criteria of efficiency and not on ideological problems, which are of little help. – Mr President, in Laeken, two decisions were taken which are very important to the creation of a European judicial area in the fight against terrorism: a common definition and sanctions in relation to terrorism and the European arrest warrant. This Parliament had insisted on these two measures in the Watson report – and I would like to congratulate him on his election and also on his words – and I believe we have done a positive job with the Council and the Commission in implementing it. In Laeken, an assessment was also made of the implementation of the Tampere agenda. I will return to that in a moment. But I would also like to say that on 27 December, COREPER adopted a series of decisions relating to the fight against terrorism. The decision allowing for a list of people and organisations active in the European Union is significant. Article 4 of the common position stating the need for the police and judicial cooperation laid down in the Treaty and in the international agreements in this field will be applied to them. We are delighted with this decision, which is of unquestionable symbolic value. We hope that the measures for combating the funding of terrorism in Europe can also be applied soon. And I also hope, Mr President, that the Council will maintain the excellent cooperation that it has enjoyed with this Parliament, with the exception of recent times. Having adopted the most important instruments for fighting terrorism, we must now see that they are applied. You can and must convince the States which have the most doubts. I would also like to point out a cause for concern in relation to the question of immigration. Your agenda mentions immigration for humanitarian reasons and the fight against illegal immigration. You miss out an important package: that of rights and duties and that of the organisation of the legal entry of persons. And there are already documents in the Commission in this regard. Please promote the whole agenda, so that we do not have to end up regretting unfulfilled decisions, as happened in Laeken with certain decisions taken in Tampere. – Mr President, I am sorry to hear Mrs Klamt’s words. I wanted to begin by congratulating the Commission and Commissioner Vitorino on this proposal which seems to me to be very complete, well constructed and timely, coming almost a year after the Tampere Summit. We must clarify today in this Parliament whether we want the immigrants and refugees who live amongst us to do so legally with their families, giving them the opportunity to live a normal life and to integrate fully into our society, or whether we are going to continue to feed the myth that they are provisional co-citizens whose final destiny is to return to the hypothetical homes they came from. This issue is so important that we must make an effort to reach a consensus. All of our groups were in agreement in committee, apart from the PPE Group. I would like us today to send a message to the people who live amongst us that they can do so with their right to live as a family recognised. Mr President, this is the intention of my group, although I would also like to ask the Commission, on behalf of my group, to think twice about one aspect included in the current directive. We have also applied these rules we are debating to people who are under alternative protection. Unfortunately, the European Union does not have homogenous criteria. There is no harmonised asylum policy. Therefore, there are very different situations in many countries, and on this minor point I would agree with Mrs Klamt. It is not a question of rejecting these people – they have the right to live as families – but of the Commission thinking twice about it and of their being subject to a future directive which would include persons under temporary and alternative protection, while we await the future harmonisation of the Union’s asylum policy. Otherwise, I congratulate the Commission and I hope that it receives the full support of this House. – Mr President, Mr Ribeiro certainly deserves to be congratulated. He has tabled an ambitious and comprehensive draft resolution at this critical juncture. Commissioner Vitorino acknowledged as much. I endorse everything Mrs Paciotti has already said concerning human rights, and would like to focus on two issues in this draft resolution. I shall deal first with criminal judicial cooperation. My comments are addressed mainly to the Council. In my view, the arrest warrant is a most significant development. It enshrines the essence of the principle of mutual recognition and ought to have been implemented in all Member States by now. The warrant has implications for the fight against terrorism and also for the fight against criminal activity. I believe we should be much more actively engaged in follow-up measures such as the exchange of evidence. There is no way of convincing the citizens that this cannot be done in order to improve security as we Europeans would like it improved, namely by increased cooperation rather than increased repression. In addition, I think it is important to make an effort to ensure the framework decision on court rights is adopted. This is particularly relevant within the context of the current discussions on enlargement. In my view, it is the other side of the coin of judicial and police cooperation and mutual recognition in the context of cooperation in the field of criminal judicial cooperation. No delays should be countenanced. The Commissioner referred to the four Tampere principles in connection with asylum and immigration policy. I firmly believe these principles are valid. I am also convinced that the Commission’s proposals go some way to setting the right course for them. Nonetheless, I have the distinct impression that a degree of confusion still prevails five years on and almost at the end of the Tampere mandate. The expression ‘flow management’ should refer to legal entry to work and reside in the European Union. In Council jargon, it is now used to refer to the fight against illegal immigration. The concept of management of legal flows has ceased to exist. At present, the Council is not even in a position to engage in debate on entry and residence for work purposes, though this is the crux of the issue. The tone of discussions in Council is becoming increasingly exacerbated. If this continues, and the notion of combating continues to be associated with the words immigration and illegal, the result will inevitably be more frustration for the citizens. It is essential to demonstrate the ability to lay down consistent guidelines for the management of immigration in its broadest sense in the twenty-first century. A convincing response must be provided. Issues concerning legal entry and entry routes have to be tackled. So too should the integration of those who have been living in our midst for years but are still perceived as immigrants. Further, it is essential to develop a new relationship with the third countries involved. Such a relationship should not centre on readmission to the exclusion of all else. Rather, it should consist of a broad set of measures designed to ensure that immigration has a beneficial outcome for both the countries of origin and the host countries. – Madam President, the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs is going to make a recommendation on the proposal presented to us by the Justice and Home Affairs Council with a view to ensuring public order during meetings. We are going to place value on the need to defend the freedom and fundamental rights of citizens. Since the Treaty of Nice, the European Parliament has had the duty to exercise the right to monitor respect for these rights and that is conferred on us by the Treaty. We must also exercise democratic control of the security measures proposed by the Council, of their proportionality and effectiveness. I am not going to throw accusations at the Italian police, but I believe that to suspend the right to movement of certain citizens while allowing the entry of the people who did what they did in Genoa could be described at the very least as ineffective and inefficient. We are going to do all of this. But I believe that today, Madam President, what we must demand of the European institutions above all is a political reaction to a situation which is not a natural catastrophe, for which a civil protection plan can be presented, as Minister Duquesne appeared to do a few days ago in our committee, but a political phenomenon which we must react to. And that reaction must also, and above all, come from this European Parliament. We in this Parliament have the obligation to create fora for political mediation given a demand which is becoming stronger and stronger, and we must do so above all because the European Union has this democratically elected institution. It is the only international organisation which has one and, given the widespread feeling that there is a lack of opportunity to exercise political demand in an international forum, we must be able to take a step forward and to offer this forum as soon as possible, in the hope that the other institutions will do the same. – Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on the content of his report and the way in which he has worked and established a dialogue with other groups in the House, which I believe has been positive, and I would also like to congratulate the Commission on its initial proposal. We must remember that we are saying to refugees that only one country of the European Union is going to consider their application for asylum. This is equivalent to saying that fourteen of the fifteen European countries are not going to appear on the relatively short list of democratic and prosperous countries in which a persecuted citizen can legitimately request asylum. I believe that this gives the countries of the EU and the Union itself the serious responsibility to offer, in exchange, firm guarantees of security to these people in various respects, which must take the form of respect for them and their families, the rapid adoption of a decision which is favourable to asylum seekers, the prohibition of all forms of discrimination and guaranteed access to justice for those people, with a view to referring that decision to the State responsible in order that their case may be re-examined. I also believe that this proposal is a necessary step, which requires others in order to make full sense. I believe that we can state that this House must support this proposal so that progress can be made in the direction indicated previously. We can see that the European Council has problems making progress with this harmonised and European asylum policy and that it finds it difficult to take these steps and I believe it is very important that tomorrow this House gives strong support to the proposal in the way I have indicated so that, amongst all of us, we can urge the Council to assume the responsibility it accepted in Tampere. Therefore, as the rapporteur has said, my group and I are going to ask for this report to be approved with the amendments which have already been approved in committee and with a few of those that will be tabled in plenary. – Madam President, much less vehemently but, I believe, just as justifiably, I would like to ask this Parliament to vote in favour of this urgent motion. We in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs have been working on this issue for a year. On 5 September we voted in favour of Mr Watson’s report in which we asked for concrete Commission proposals in favour of harmonising penalties in the field of terrorism and establishing mutual recognition of sentences, which is known, inappropriately in my view, as the European arrest warrant. There have been passionate and interesting debates in our committee, and it is a shame that Mr Cohn-Bendit has not been able to follow them.  Work has been done in this Parliament in relation to the texts which the European Commission has been working on for over a year. I believe that we are all responsible adults and Members of Parliament, we know the background to the texts, we understand their political importance and we can make an effort to accept the inconveniences of doing a little work over these days, so that on Monday, before the Laeken Summit, in a perfectly correct manner in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may give its opinion for the second time. – Mr President, I would also like to congratulate Mr Coelho. Free movement within the Union is one of the most cherished achievements for this House and for many citizens in the European Union. The rules which regulate the free movement of persons within the Union are Community rules. Many of the measures it has been necessary to establish in order to guarantee it are scattered around our legislation. To guarantee this free movement requires a high degree of trust and cooperation between the Member States, particularly in the management of external borders. There is plenty of information on the reality of the situation to demonstrate that we have difficulties here, including the arrival on the coasts of the south of the European Union of people who hope that this will be the first stage of a journey but for whom it is often dramatically the last, the women rescued on a daily basis from their captors and exploiters, who offer them to Europeans who ask no questions about their origin, or the tragic spectacle we have witnessed for months in relation to the Sangatte centre. We believe that the European Commission has raised the need to deal with this issue correctly and in a timely manner. Firstly, because the enlargement of the European Union obliges us to do so. Secondly, because their proposal is a good signal to the Convention that it should resolve the legislative mess involving one of the Union’s fundamental distinguishing marks; internal free movement. Thirdly, because it presents today, with the legal framework we have – and perhaps also the financial framework – the possibility of making progress on this objective. I agree with the notion that there is room to better guarantee both the freedom of security of those people who are in Community territory and the situation of those who wish to pass through it. Therefore, and despite our extremist tendencies, the Socialist Group will vote in favour of the Pirker report. I hope that the enthusiasm and broad support of this House are contagious and that the Council will go beyond its political declarations and actively and enthusiastically support this proposal. –  Mr President, Europe is experiencing tension between low population growth and a genuine demand for manpower in the labour market, on the one hand, and a population that is distrustful of immigration on the other. Faced with this situation, political decision-makers can react in two ways: either by exploiting people’s fears to their own advantage, at least in the short term, or by attempting to manage the different aspects of immigration as best they can, bravely explaining the reasons for this phenomenon, the benefits it brings our societies, its more problematic aspects and the policies that are necessary. We have seen some examples of this first approach right here this very morning. In its two communications, the Commission has, fortunately, positioned itself firmly in the second camp, and we can only congratulate the Commissioner for this and show our approval. It has also achieved this – I would like to stress – in accordance with the agreements and mandates reached at the European Council in Tampere. Whilst I fully subscribe to everything my friend and colleague, Mr Evans, said about asylum, I would like to focus during the short speaking time available to me on the communication on immigration and the report. Both define a clear path to be followed. The communication discusses, and the report also focuses on, the external and internal causes of immigration, the need for codevelopment policies and a new partnership with the countries of origin, a common European legislative framework to organise entry in a fair, transparent and straightforward way, residency and integration, which to me means rights. Only after this does it talk, once these standards have been established, of addressing the subject of illegal immigration, because we need legal channels to do this. Lastly, the report speaks, and we shall be discussing this here in detail when we see the legislative proposals, of establishing new immigration policies in the twenty-first century for a new society and a new economy, that cannot simply be a rehash of guest worker policies from the industrial societies of the 1960s. I hope that the Council will also align itself with those politicians who want to broach this subject clearly and courageously. I really hope this will be the case and I say this in the full knowledge that, on the subject of immigration, we are speaking with both our minds and our hearts – I say this knowing that listening to me today are EU citizens, some by birth and others through choice, all invited by my colleague Mr Aparicio, and who have high expectations of this debate. Parliament will try to prove equal to events, and, despite the fact that on occasions events make things difficult for us, we are going to try, and this is something that has never been done by the PPE-DE Group with regard to asylum, to give strong support to this Commission communication and we hope in exchange, Mr President, that the European Council at Laeken will be able to once again initiate a dynamic and robust policy that will allow us to tackle this much needed common immigration policy. –  Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the transatlantic relationship is very important: it was a priority of the last Spanish Presidency and is again under the current one, and we must therefore do whatever we can to preserve it. What is happening is that, like any relationship, there are two sides to it, and we are now seeing that the Bush Administration is strongly tempted to act on its own; that is, to practise the Frank Sinatra doctrine: ‘I’ll do it my way’, both in politics – I only have two minutes and I cannot expand on this – and in trade. Trade never used to be an area that tested this relationship: we considered trade disputes to be an exception, while trade benefits were the rule. Now, however, they have gone too far, on both steel and another product that is less talked about: clementines. The cases are different: clementines affect just one country (the region, by the way, where Commissioner Solbes comes from) and steel affects us all. Both cases go against the WTO rules without any justification at all and, what is more, they imply self-punishment by the United States. We have to withstand both the indirect damage – I believe traffic diversion measures can be taken – and the direct damage. There are several possibilities: one is to take action within the WTO, but that will take time and, in the long run, we shall all be dead; there is also the possibility of , of doing nothing, because the derived industries that import steel inputs will become less competitive and therefore we will be able to take over from them; but what I believe we must to is act immediately. The provisional measures that can be adopted are within easy reach, covered by the panel judgment on the Foreign Sales Task Corporation, and therefore we must act immediately. – Mr President, Commissioner Lamy, Minister Neyts-Uyttebroeck, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic events of 11 September have led to a re-emergence of two concepts which seemed to have been forgotten: multilateralism and solidarity. Firstly, political practice is developing in such a way that we can only confront global threats in a global fashion: all united. Furthermore, we also know that poverty and underdevelopment are significant causes of insecurity. A Japanese thinker, Daisako Ikeda, said that the new concept of security, which focuses on the security of States, must be defined differently, focusing on the well-being of peoples. Only by extending freedom, human rights and development can we recover our security. At the same time, these events have speeded up the decline in confidence in our security and the economy, areas which were already showing signs of weakness. It is therefore now important that we send clear signs of revitalisation and attention to the concerns of our citizens and, above all, to the concerns of the countries which need it most, that is, the developing countries. It must therefore be an absolute priority to launch this new round of multilateral negotiations in Qatar on the date set, not yet to negotiate, but at least to set the agenda in the direction we wish to take. We want to move towards a result which provides a balance between opening up trade and subjecting that trade to rules, internal democratic, and external democratic, rules, which respect fundamental social standards, the environment and the security of our consumers. We also want a balance between an increase in exchanges and special attention to the concerns of our citizens, as well as the concerns and needs of the developing countries, who must be allowed to share fully in the benefits of international trade. In summary, therefore, the mandate which the Council has given to the Commission, in our opinion, corresponds to these balances and deserves our full support. I would like to thank Commissioner Lamy for the sensitivity he has always shown towards the European Parliament and his constant cooperation. In return, Parliament and the parliamentary delegation which will accompany him to Qatar will offer him all their support. – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Novelli’s original report was rejected because when voting on the amendments we realised that the final text was completely incoherent. On the one hand it had incorporated the positions of those who wished to remove aid to this industry, which is fundamental for energy supply and for social cohesion in our countries, while on the other hand others among us would have liked to go further and have greater certainty about what is going to happen after 2010. For this reason, the report was rejected in committee and as the chair I was given the task of conducting the necessary negotiations to solve the problem, because we would have been unable to deliver an opinion on the Council’s decision. This was why I contacted Mr Novelli, as he had already worked on this report, and also, out of parliamentary courtesy, I thought it was appropriate to consult him as to whether he wanted to put forward the only text that could receive a consensus, which was the Commission’s text, and Mr Novelli agreed, which I thank him for. He thinks it is a step in the right direction, as do I. He thinks that it goes too far and I do not think that it goes far enough but it is, however, the only possible text, and we therefore think that we should give it majority support and comply with the agreement between the different groups, which is not to adopt any amendments modifying the Commission’s text. Now the ball will be in the Council’s court and we hope that it will adopt a solution that is in line with the Commission’s proposal. – Madam President, I would like first of all to highlight the excellent cooperation which exists between Commissioner Busquin and the European Parliament, by means of the committee which I chair, on issues of research. I would also like to take this opportunity to communicate to you the double concern of the scientific community, which is practically unanimous, in relation to two questions. The first is that the scientific community unreservedly supports the idea of a common area of research. However, on the other hand, it has serious doubts that the effect of synergy and added value at a European level may be lost by means of a concentration of the different research projects; that is to say, the smaller the nucleus, the more concentrated those projects are, the more difficult it is for these synergies to be produced at a European level. The second question relates to the instruments. The three instruments planned: the networks of excellence, on the one hand, the integrated projects and the recourse to Article 169. The scientific community is concerned about the fact that these three instruments are new and that they are the only ones being used. It fears that others which were being used will be lost despite the fact that the scientific community had become accustomed to them. It also fears that a whole series of research teams which had been created could be lost, all of a sudden, as a result of the exclusive application of these three instruments. I would therefore like the Commissioner to respond to this double concern. – Mr President, I have taken the floor simply to tell you that I have been in contact with Mr Murphy, the rapporteur of this report, and we have agreed that it would be better to proceed to the vote without debating the report. – Madam President, with regard to the telecommunications package which we are going to vote on – tomorrow, in principle – I would like to ask that the vote be delayed until Wednesday. We have just held a meeting with the Council and the Commission and they advise us that, so that the various groups may have time to examine the compromise proposals, that vote should be held a day later. . –  Mr President, Commissioner, I am aware that the Balkans are not the most promising area for optimism. However, I do not believe I am being over-optimistic if I say that the European Union is harvesting the fruits of coordinated and persistent action. After the tragedy that the Balkans suffered, these fruits first appeared a few months ago in Croatia with free elections and a regime eager to respect human rights, and have now revealed themselves in Belgrade, where the citizens have confirmed their desire to live together in peace and freedom and to take their place in the family of Europe. We must not disappoint them in their expectations, and now more than ever these countries need our help. We must continue this process of stabilising the region and prepare them for a longer-term perspective of integration in the institutions of Europe. In doing this, of course, we are staking our credibility and our own stability. But if we want to help them, we must do so more effectively and in a more coordinated fashion than we have done so far; otherwise there will occur what Mr Lagendijk has called the loss of visibility of the European Union, which bears the largest financial burden in the Balkans and yet is far less visible than countries like the United States, which can react practically in real time to any need that arises in the country. So much so that when I was in Bosnia-Herzegovina and visited a village, they would greet me jubilantly with ‘It is so good that you Americans are here to help us.’ The European Union’s action had become that invisible. In the report on aid to the western Balkans that I have drawn up, working in close collaboration with Mr Lagendijk, on the two topics that we are dealing with today – a fine example of cooperation between two committees – we have recognised a number of limitations. On the one hand there is a geographical limitation, which suggests that the agency’s action should be expanded to embrace not only Kosovo but all Yugoslavia. We have also found some functional limitations. First, the international organisations that carry out these operations, such as UNMIK in Kosovo or the office of the High Representative in Sarajevo, also need to benefit from this aid. In addition, there are several measures – I am referring particularly to the CARDS programme – that should go beyond reconstruction and extend to training, education and the reconstruction of civil society in close collaboration with NGOs. It is vital that NGOs should collaborate in this field, and also that there should be some coordination among them, if we really want their action to be more effective and to reach all parts of those regions. We must also highlight the media. The media in that region have often been responsible for the tragedy they have been through, so it is essential to have a completely free media that acts in accordance with the rules that prevail in our democracies. It is also very important to make the judiciary really independent. We have also come across some operational limitations, which are among the causes of the lack of visibility. Operational limitations in the aid management system. Sometimes there is too much bureaucracy, too much red tape, and too much vacillation when the aid is granted. Therefore it is important for the CARDS programme management committee to be a committee that confines itself to the general lines of multiannual planning and does not try to carry out everyday micro-management at too detailed a scale, because otherwise we may again have the same problems as in the past. It is also important that the work of the CARDS management committee and the work of the Kosovo Reconstruction Agency should not get mixed up, or be duplicated or overlap; instead there should be a perfect division of duties. It is also essential to strengthen the role of the European Parliament, and I believe that with the amendments, which are likely to be voted for tomorrow, the European Parliament will be able to perform a greater consultative role in a process of interinstitutional collaboration. Lastly, I want to mention the financial package. Mr President, you are perfectly aware that nowadays the miracle of the loaves and the fishes is most unlikely to be repeated, and with the precious few loaves and fishes we now have available it is going to be practically impossible for us to tackle all of the European Union’s external obligations. We have to give more effective and more coordinated aid, gathering together all the scattered bits and pieces. I conclude by repeating the Commission’s own words – that these two proposals are the cornerstone of a process that should lead these countries, which have had and still have so many problems, to become fully integrated into the structures of Europe. I am firmly convinced that the Balkans do have a solution and that the Balkan curse can be lifted, but for this they need all our support and these two programmes aim to provide it. –  Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Erika Mann has given a good – if rather brief – summary of the Group of the Party of European Socialists’ current position on the Millennium Round, so I shall not dwell on it any further. I just have two observations which I would like to share with the Council and with the Commission – and they are two sides of the same coin. These are, to be precise, the need to include our citizens in this important exercise, and to deal with their legitimate concerns. My first observation concerns the need to include the European Parliament in the forthcoming negotiations. This is not simply a matter of making a claim for this institution, and nor is it a childish desire to be in the limelight. It is a question above all, of ensuring that the problems that this round poses for our citizens can reach the European Union’s negotiator at all times, as we have seen from what previous speakers have said, as well as the solutions that these citizens expect of the negotiators. This is the only way to ensure that these demands reach the Union’s representatives. And these demands will have all the more force if Parliament presents a united front with the Commission and with the Council. This therefore, is my first observation. My second observation justifies my first request and that is that our citizens’ main concerns are heading in an apparently opposing direction. On the one hand, we are perfectly aware that this round should not result in empty words, but should instead provide a net benefit for everyone, especially for the developing countries. On the other hand, our society has legitimate concerns about the challenges that the phenomenon of globalisation poses for us: respect for human rights and of fundamental social liberties, the protection of the environment and the preservation of nature, as well as the protection of our consumers’ health. My question to the Council and to the Commission is this: how can we reconcile these two apparently contradictory issues? . – Mr President, I believe that the motion for a resolution on which we are going to vote on the future of the European Union and the assessment of Nice is a positive and balanced text which maintains the European Parliament’s important role in the construction of Europe. It therefore deserves full support in this House, I hope by a majority. As Chairman of the Industry Committee, I have presented an opinion which I would sum up by means of four points. The first refers to paragraph 3 of Article 157 on support measures for industry. The second is the financial consequences of the expiry of the ECSC Treaty in 2002. The third relates to Article 181 A on relations with third countries, above all in the field of financial and technical cooperation. Finally, the fourth aspect relates to the unsatisfactory amendments of Article 133 on the common trade policy. All of them have the same defect, and that is that they do not resolve the clear democratic deficit which exists in these areas, where the role of the European Parliament, in some cases, is completely absent and, in others, is restricted to a mere consultation when it should have gone further. I trust that this opinion which is appended to the motion for a resolution will soon be included in a new European Parliament document, and I also trust that these issues will be included in the agenda for the coming convention which will lead to an Intergovernmental Conference. –  Mr President, Commissioner, we are about to vote on one more step down a new road, begun in mid-1995, when, like anything new, it met with quite a lot of criticism and quite a lot of reluctance. Fortunately, that criticism and reluctance is now a thing of the past; unfortunately, however, we still hear some reservations, like those voiced in Parliament just now. I think we need to realise that what we are doing is actually forestalling the fears expressed here, with an agreement which, in this case, is purely about trade. So we are forestalling these fears about Europe losing ground in Mexico against the exporting power of the United States. What is more, this agreement means we are also strengthening the country’s democratisation process. As a result of that 500 year-old meeting of civilisations, Mexico is a country culturally and politically bound to Europe. But politically and geo-politically, the fundamental weight has essentially lain with the United States, its powerful neighbour to the North. And until these agreements start to bite, the hegemony of the United States in terms of economics, trade and investment will remain virtually absolute. But Mexico has also made great progress on human rights. It has been granted permanent observer status at the OECD and in 1999 it reformed its constitution to grant autonomy to its National Commission on Human Rights So, for both economic and political reasons, we urge approval of this agreement. – Mr President, in actual fact, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy originally considered that, for procedural reasons, this urgency should not be authorised, since this is the third or fourth time that the Council has proposed the urgent procedure in relation to these issues, when really it should present them on time so that Parliament can give its opinion within the usual timescales. However, in the end, considering the situation in Bosnia Herzegovina and in Yugoslavia, bearing in mind that this will be the last time we authorise an urgency – we ask the Commission and the Council in the future to act in full accordance with the norms – we are prepared to accept the urgent procedure. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, on 17 May I asked an oral question to the Council and the Commission on behalf of the Committee which I chair, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy before the – I would say welcome – signing of an agreement between the European Union and China on the membership of the latter of the World Trade Organisation. In this regard, I would like to make a comment and two requests. Firstly, on behalf of the Committee which I chair, I would like to warmly congratulate Commissioner Lamy for his patience, perseverance and the skilful contacts he has been holding constantly not only with the Chinese authorities, but also with other important members of the Council of the WTO, in particular the United States, which have allowed both the Congress of the United States and the European Union to reach a preliminary agreement on the membership of China, the importance of which is obvious because it will incorporate into the World Trade Organisation more than a billion people, with all the challenges and possibly positive responses that this will involve. Secondly, this agreement is positive because it brings with it economic, social, environmental and also geopolitical advantages for China and the world in general, especially the European Union. What seems particularly positive to us is the opening up achieved in the field of financial services, telecommunications and insurance, which will offer opportunities, with no doubt whatsoever, to our economic operators, and also the gradual opening up of the energy markets in China which, apart from certain economic benefits, will lead to greater compliance with environmental standards in that country. Another additional advantage is that China, through its entry into the World Trade Organisation, will be subject to its rules. This is positive in itself and will bring China into a new and different dynamic in terms of closer relations with the rest of the world, although this must not cause us to stop being vigilant with regard to the respect for human rights, social rights and environmental rights. In this respect I would like to say that there will be difficulties, since the position of the Commission and the Council, which Parliament supports, requires fundamental respect for basic social and environmental rights, China’s acceptance of which, paradoxically, will be more difficult to ensure once China is a member of the World Trade Organisation with full rights. Therefore, we also fully support the Commission and Council initiative to relaunch the round, which was frustrated at the outset in Seattle, as soon as possible, turning it into a global round. Those have been my comments. My two questions are as follows: Firstly, we are very interested to know whether the Commission is willing to work closely with the United States on this package of financial assistance, which is so important and necessary, so that China may be provided with the administrative and legal apparatus for it to fulfil its obligations within the World Trade Organisation. The other question is as follows: we have worked very well with the Commission and the Council throughout this process and we intend to continue to do so. I believe that this cooperation gives legitimacy to a process which is being criticised. The question is clear. More than a question, it is a request: at the end of the process, will the agreement with China be subject to the approval of Parliament? I believe that this hypothesis does not put the Council or the Commission at any risk, since its success is guaranteed. As I have said, Parliament supports this agreement. Furthermore, we will all gain in terms of democratic legitimacy with this important agreement, since, I do not need to stress, it is laid down that in important agreements Parliament has a decisive role to play. . – Mr President, Commissioner, we are going to vote on three reports by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy which are crucial to the forthcoming Barcelona Summit. They are essential to compliance with the Lisbon objectives if we really want to build the most competitive economy in the world, and they are also essential to the liberalisation of the internal market. To sum up, they are of benefit to the consumers. It has been a complex subject. We have had to separate two directives – the one on gas and the one on electricity – and we have had to do a lot of work very quickly. I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, Mr Turmes, Mr Rapkay and Mr Mombaur, because they have done a lot of very good work and have done so in record time. Because of the complexity of the subject, there have been attempts to postpone the vote which is going to take place tomorrow. As Chairman, I have done everything in my power so that we may vote on them before Barcelona. The credibility of the European Parliament was at stake and we did not want the European Parliament to be an easy pretext for possible failure. It is a crucial test for Barcelona and the European Parliament has been a match for the circumstances. Of course, we agree with the Members – in particular the French – on the desire to combine liberalisation with the need to maintain an efficient public service and I believe that all our work must follow that approach. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not sufficient to privatise or liberalise unless we prevent possible dominant positions which significantly distort competition. If public monopolies are turned into private oligopolies, we will have achieved little. Therefore, it is essential not only to legally separate transmission from transport, but furthermore to make each one totally independent. That is the aim of my amendment. . – Mr President, the Committee on Industry considers that this is an extremely important issue and should be dealt with as a matter of great urgency. We all know the reasons why the situation affecting Montenegro is a complex one and we should not,for obvious reasons, delay this matter any further. I therefore propose producing a simplified report so that we can vote on urgent procedure. , . – Mr President, I will be very brief. I simply want to say that, when the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy received Mr Dary’s report, after a detailed examination of the problems facing the banana industry, we came to the conclusion in our committee that the solution proposed by Mr Dary met the absolutely fundamental conditions for its success. Firstly, with regard to the international obligations of the European Union, not only towards the ACP countries, but also within the World Trade Organisation. As you know, the European Union has been condemned for its regime of granting licences for this product, but has maintained the viability of the quota regime proposed by Mr Dary. In fact, in the Commission’s current negotiations, it appears that the main suppliers would prefer this system. On the other hand, this is the system which best defends the principle of multifunctionality of agriculture, protects the European Union producers, also protects the developing countries, with whom we have a very special relationship, is sensitive to the protection of fundamental social regulations and the protection of the environment and, lastly, it is the system which best obeys the principle of consumer protection. For all these reasons, my committee voted in favour of Mr Dary’s draft report. –  Mr President, Commissioner, there are times when we can feel particularly happy to belong to a particular institution and this is one of those times. The three institutions have worked well, in a way that the European citizens would want legitimately constituted institutions to work. They have done so both effectively and speedily, thanks to Commissioner Busquin and the Belgian Presidency, who, with difficulty, were finally able to reach an agreement on the financial package, which, as you will all remember, five years ago was the bone of contention that caused delay in the adoption of the Fifth Framework Programme. This will not happen again. Thanks also to the Spanish Presidency, which has been particularly sensitive to Parliament’s needs, and thanks, above all, to all the rapporteurs, Mr Caudron and the shadow rapporteurs, who have worked professionally and in Europe’s interests. This is, therefore, one of those times when one can feel truly happy and content at being a representative of this institution. The work is not finished. There undoubtedly remains a whole range of unknown factors – ethics, for example. We have total respect for all of those who feel differently to us. However, I would like to suggest that you will see for yourselves how, through the Council proposal for a common position and the Commission statement with regard to specific programmes, your concerns are being taken into consideration. Above all, we shall ensure that this issue allows for the adoption of a framework programme in which the European Scientific Community has placed its hopes. . – Madam President, I would first of all like to welcome the Commission and thank them for putting forward this Green Paper, which has an enormous responsibility, not only for the present but also for the future. We are only beginning, but globalisation is already here and it is obvious that companies play a major role in social matters. They have rights but they must also have obligations to contribute to a fairer society that is more in keeping with the defence of human rights in the world, improving the environment, combating discrimination and in favour of basic and fundamental working standards. It is wrong to think that, as the Howitt report suggests, it would be a burden for companies to introduce compulsory social responsibility, councils that are open to participation from all, not only shareholders, but also what are called stake holders, and a social and environmental report, because those companies in the global society that act according to those rules will be more profitable and will be able to operate much more easily in the world. Paradoxically, the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, Mrs Lucas, withdrew her name from the opinion. However, the chairman of the committee cannot withdraw his or her name, so I am presenting it on behalf of the committee, but I am in fact in the same position as Mrs Lucas in that I am convinced of the need for the social and environmental report to be compulsory. I therefore fully support the Howitt report from the committee responsible. – Mr President, since the European Council in Lisbon, we have travelled a long way in a relatively short space of time. The three institutions, Council, Parliament and Commission, were aware that the time factor was vital in the case of one of the fastest-developing technologies. The directive on e-commerce has already been approved, we approved the directive on the unbundling of the local loop – which, by the way, the Member States have not yet fully complied with – but now the telecommunication business, which seemed secure, is encountering more and more problems, which is clearly not beneficial to users. A new framework is therefore necessary. And that is what this package of directives we are dealing with provides. It is not a question of more regulation. It is a question of regulating what is necessary, with a balance between consumers and operators. But, above all, it is a question of regulating in the same way, in an equal way, in order to prevent what was happening – a fragmentation of the internal market. That is why the European Parliament tried to resolve this problem, and the Council, in its common position, made a counter-offer, which I believe was insufficient, but now the Presidency has achieved a package which is more sufficient. What we are being offered is clearly not ideal, it is not what we would all like to achieve, but as the saying goes, the best is the enemy of the good, and, for the sake of the certainty of the operators, for the sake of the need to have a filter in the Commission to deal with the problems of the internal market, and also, it should be said, for the sake of the good image of the operation of our institutions, I recommend that we approve this package.